DRN-3996731
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the length of time it took Rowan Dartington & Co. Limited 
(Rowan Dartington) to restructure his portfolio after it was transferred to them at the end of 
2019.
What happened
Mr K held his portfolio with another product provider. His financial adviser recommended he 
transfer his portfolio to a discretionary account with Rowan Dartington which he proceeded 
to do in September 2019. A total of around £91,000 was to be invested  £20,000 in new 
cash from Mr K and the remainder, mostly in-specie, from his previous provider. 
The in-specie transfers were received by Rowan Dartington from November 2019 onwards 
until the beginning of February 2020. £20,000 cash was received on 24 September 2019 
and the remaining cash of £29,896.47 was received on 12 November from the ceding 
platform. Mr K had requested a collective investment only portfolio with Rowan Dartington 
and at the time of transfer he held three direct equity investments, Royal Dutch Shell, Global 
Ports Holding and Consort Medical. 
Mr K became concerned about action being taken on his account and complained about how 
long those actions were taking. He said Rowan Dartington had taken too long to sell the 
equities as well as restructuring the rest of his portfolio. In particular he referred to the 
holding of Fundsmith LLP Equity I Income Nav. 
Rowan Dartington rejected Mr Ks complaint. It said;
The Investment Proposal had outlined the investment timelines, but that timeline was 
dependent on market conditions.
Planned action on Mr Ks account was postponed and adjusted when the COVID 
pandemic occurred.
It said the account was managed on a discretionary basis and the actions it had 
taken were the right ones.
The sale of and reinvestment into Fundsmith was carried out because of investment 
decisions. 
Mr K wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said;
The account was a discretionary one.
Rowan Dartingtons decision to delay sales during the market fall until prices 
recovered was a reasonable one.
The Fundsmith holding had dropped considerably in value at the time of the sale but 
Rowan Dartington didnt know how long it would take to recover. So, given the stock 
market situation the decision to sell wasnt unreasonable, neither was the 
reinvestment in July when the price was picking up. 
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt agree Rowan Dartington acted in line with 
the list priorities it had identified and the overriding agreement he had with Rowan Dartington 
which was to move from equities to funds. He couldnt see how it had applied that policy. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
As part of his complaint, Mr K has raised concerns about the delay in the disposal of his 
direct equity investments. He told us one of the reasons he was transferring his portfolio was 
to invest solely into collective investments  as recommended by his adviser  in order to 
reduce risks. 
In assessing Mr Ks complaint, I have borne in mind that Rowan Dartington was not acting 
as his financial adviser. That was the role of another party. Rowan Dartingtons role was as 
discretionary manager of Mr Ks portfolio. So, it was to act on his behalf within the agreed 
investment mandate of a balanced investment objective with a low/medium risk profile. I note 
that the Portfolio Report of August 2019 prior to the transfer identified Mr Ks then portfolio 
as close to a medium/high risk framework.
As mentioned above, Mr K held three direct equity investments. The proceeds for Consort 
Medical were received when it was taken over in February 2020. The holding of Royal Dutch 
Shell was sold in May 2020 and Global Ports Holding in July. 
Rowan Dartington has said these were not disposed of sooner as other priorities for the 
portfolio were identified. And those priorities were then impacted by the COVID pandemic 
and fall/volatility in the stock market. It was decided not to sell those holdings until the prices 
had recovered. Rowan Dartington said this was a decision and not a lack of action.
Mr K has said that as the list of priorities were agreed, he questioned why Rowan Dartington 
didnt follow its own policy. Mr K gave the example of Royal Dutch Shell. For clarity I list the 
priorities given to us by Rowan Dartington;
Sell the securities rated as 'Sell' and 'Reduce' by our Investment Research Team
Sell securities which were not on our Core list
Invest the cash which comprised around 50% of the portfolio
Rotate out of the in-specie holdings into those recommended by Rowan Dartington
Restructure the portfolio to align with the Rowan Dartington Structural Policy
Mr K has questioned why Royal Dutch Shell wasnt sold sooner than it was. After all, the 
advice he was given was to move away from direct equities and towards collectives within a 
discretionary portfolio and so the holding should have been included within either the first or 
the second of the priorities identified in Rowan Dartingtons list. 
I can understand the point that Mr K is making but I think its more pertinent to refer back to 
the point I mentioned above that Rowan Dartington wasnt the adviser, it only had the discretionary mandate for the account. Clearly it was known that Mr K was going to shift 
away from direct equities, as collectives only is recorded as an investment restriction but it 
was ultimately Rowan Dartingtons decision as to when that would be done. 
And I am of the view that a business decision to take no action  in this case deciding not to 
sell the equity holdings sooner than it did  is as reasoned and considered as one to take 
action. So, I dont agree that the business didnt act as it should have done within its agreed 
discretionary remit.
With reference to Fundsmith, Rowan Dartington said at the point of the pandemic it was 
decided to gravitate towards bonds and therefore a partial sale of one of the holdings of 
Fundsmith was carried out. This was reassessed in the July and the same Fundsmith fund 
was reinvested into. Rowan Dartington explained that both transactions were taken for 
different investment management reasons. I also note a further investment was made into 
the same fund in March 2021 which suggests the portfolio and the holding was further under 
review. 
And this tallies with what Rowan Dartington have said about how it manages portfolios in 
that Mr Ks portfolio had been reviewed and at different times both macro and micro views 
were taken. The macro decisions regarding overall investment decisions made on the back 
of research and conclusions reached by its Central Investment Team and Research Team, 
as well as micro decisions made at the individual portfolio level. This is in line with comments 
made in the managing your portfolio section of the Investment Proposal document from 
August 2019 which said under on-going discretionary service that; 
Your portfolio will be continually monitored to make sure it is meeting your 
investment objectives. This is done on a periodic individual basis, and daily through 
our Portfolio Monitory System. 
The Investment Proposal also states with reference to the timing of investments;
If the portfolio is established in cash, we will look to carefully time the initial 
investment depending on market conditions. This may take up to three months.
If the portfolio is transferred in specie we will gradually migrate towards the illustrated 
portfolio, which may take some time. We also potentially retain good-quality 
securities in the medium term, which are likely to perform well but may not 
necessarily be covered by our research team.
Taking this into account, I am satisfied Mr K was made aware  prior to transferring to 
Rowan Dartington  of the potential timescales involved but the above highlights that the 
overarching trading decision mandate is subject to market conditions. 
So, I cant agree that Rowan Dartington has acted outside of that and particularly bearing in 
mind Mr Ks account was a discretionary one. The business undertook sufficient transactions 
to suggest action was being taken with Mr Ks portfolio and in particular, 23 transactions 
were carried out on the portfolio between the May and August 2020. And while its easy to 
question specific transactions with the benefit of hindsight, the business has told us that 
overall Mr Ks portfolio is in a better financial position than if those transactions had not been 
taken. 
And I should make clear that even if the portfolio wasnt in a better financial decision, but I 
had still concluded that Rowan Dartington had acted within the agreement of the account 
and as it should have done, I wouldnt award redress just because an investment decision 
turned out to be wrong in that it hadnt performed as had been hoped.Overall, taking all of the above into consideration, I dont find that Rowan Dartington has 
done anything wrong and as such, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
No doubt Mr K will be disappointed with the decision that I have reached. But I hope I have 
been able to explain to him how and why I have reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman