DRN-1640916
 
The complaint
Mr F says Everyday Loans Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr F was sold the PPI at the same time as arranging the loan in 2009. The policy gave him 
accident, sickness, unemployment and some life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Our general approach to complaints 
about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr F says he forced by the lender to take out the PPI. Looking at the paperwork from the 
sale, the loan agreement has a separate section for PPI. There were boxes to tick to either 
request or decline the PPI. The box to request the PPI has been ticked. In that section there 
is also a statement that says: This insurance is optional. 
Everyday Loans sold a number of different types of insurance and I can see that Mr F 
declined two other types of cover. The sale paperwork includes a record of the discussion 
about Mr Fs circumstances and his insurance needs. This shows that Mr F said he only 
received statutory sick pay and would like his repayments to be made if he is off sick, and 
that he had no redundancy cover in place so would like his repayments met if he lost his job.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr F has said about being pressured into buying the PPI. 
However, from the layout and wording of the sales documentation, I consider its most likely 
that Mr F would have known he had a choice about buying the policy. He also felt able to 
decline the other forms of insurance that were on offer. On balance, I think that Mr F 
probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing that he had a choice about doing so.
Everyday Loans advised Mr F to take out the policy. Therefore, in recommending the PPI to 
him, it needed to ensure that it met Mr Fs needs. And from what I know of Mr Fs 
circumstances at the time, I think it was suitable for him.
Mr F told us he was self-employed at the time of the sale, so he didnt have access to any 
sick pay or redundancy pay from an employer. And hes said he had no savings or other 
insurances. This policy would have paid out for all successful claims for up to the term of his 
loan. And the terms of this policy didnt make it any harder for someone who was self-employed to make a successful unemployment claim. So I think the PPI was suitable and 
would have been useful for Mr F if he was sick or unemployed.
Mr F said that when he tried to claim under the policy he couldnt, but he hasnt given us any 
details about this  and we have asked a number of times. Everyday Loans says it has no 
record of any claims being made against Mr Fs policy  successful or otherwise  so I cant 
comment further on this based on the available evidence.
Everyday Loans also needed to provide Mr F with enough information for him to make an 
informed choice about buying the policy. Its possible that Everyday Loans didnt provide as 
much information as it should have about the policy, particularly the things it didnt cover. But 
Mr F wasnt affected by any of those things so I dont think better information on the 
exclusions would have changed his decision. The cost was set out in the statement of price 
and on the pre-contract information. And it was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable for Mr F. As I think Mr F had selected the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that better information would have caused him to change his mind.
In summary, this means I dont think Everyday Loans has to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr F. But Everyday Loans will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because: 
Everyday Loans got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr F about that. Because Everyday Loans 
didnt tell Mr F, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Everyday Loans has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
Everyday Loans has to pay back to Mr F any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Everyday Loans should also pay back to Mr F any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Everyday Loans should pay back to Mr F the extra he paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Everyday Loans 
should also pay Mr F 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr F can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Everyday Loans Limited does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Everyday Loans Limited does have to pay back to Mr F any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman