DRN-1649553
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when she opened a store credit card account in August 2004.   
What happened
Mrs H took out her store card, ending 6399, and the PPI policy in August 2004 whilst she 
was in store. Mrs H has complained that the PPI was mis-sold but AXA hasnt upheld her 
complaint. 
Mrs H wasnt happy with AXAs response, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said that they thought the PPI was mis-sold and recommended Mrs Hs 
complaint should be upheld.
AXA didnt agree with that recommendation and asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy was mis-sold and shall explain why.
Mrs H took out her credit card and the PPI in store. AXA has provided a copy of the 
application form that Mrs H completed. 
I can see there is a section on the form with the heading Protecting Your Account. This 
contains the following statements: (only sign this box if you require Account Cover) Yes I 
want to protect my Account with Account Cover (subject to eligibility). Please debit my 
account with the relevant premium until further notice.
I cannot be certain what, if any additional information would have been provided at the time 
in store to Mrs H when she was completing the form for the credit card application. I think it 
unlikely the store assistant would have provided any detail about the PPI.
Looking at the form and the information I can see was provided, I think Mrs H should have 
been aware that she had a choice about taking out the PPI and she signed to say she 
wanted it. The fact she signed separately to indicate she wanted the cover, but crossed 
through other types of cover available, makes me think Mrs H knew this was an optional 
policy. But I am not persuaded that Mrs H was provided with adequate information about the 
policy to make an informed decision about whether it was suitable for her. The only information provided on the form was that Mrs H had to meet eligibility criteria. 
From the information provided by Mrs H she did meet the basic criteria and so was eligible 
for the policy, even though she wasnt informed of the criteria at the point of sale.
It is probable additional information about the PPI would have been sent in the post to Mrs H 
later. But that information was needed at the point of sale to enable Mrs H to make an 
informed decision whether to take out the PPI or not. She agreed to take out the policy in 
store when she signed the application form to select it.
I cannot see that Mrs H was given any information about the cost and the benefits of the 
policy at the point she took it out. The application form merely stated any premium would be 
charged to her account. But there was nothing to indicate the level of the premium or the 
level of benefits that could be paid or any restrictions on the benefits. 
I dont think it was clear to Mrs H from the application form how much the premiums may be 
or that interest would be paid on any premiums charged to her account if she didnt clear her 
balance.
There was also no information that the policy may be subject to restrictive conditions, such 
as claims made for pre-existing medical conditions would not be covered. Mrs H did have 
pre-existing medical conditions that would have affected any claim that she may have 
wanted to make connected with these conditions. So this would have affected the benefits 
available to her under the policy.
Mrs H has indicated she had two conditions but when asked for further information about 
what conditions may have affected her at the point of sale she has provided details of only 
one of the conditions. This was a condition she had had since childhood and for which she 
took ongoing medication. The medication had changed as the condition had worsened over 
time. 
AXA has indicated it doesnt believe this worsening condition alone was sufficient for the 
policy to be unsuitable. And although it was indicated by Mrs H she had taken time off work 
AXA says no detail has been provided as to whether this was at the point of sale. It also 
considers it was unlikely that the customer would have needed to claim for this condition.
The issue however is that Mrs H did have a medical condition that was ongoing and if she 
had needed to make a claim in connection with this it would not have been covered. That is 
the information that should have been provided to her at the point of sale and it wasnt. 
The condition was one that was serious enough for her to be on regular medication. So if 
Mrs H had been told she would not be covered for claims connected with this condition I 
think she wouldnt have taken out the policy. Its likely she would have thought that the 
ongoing condition was possibly one of the most likely causes for her to be sick and need 
time off work. 
In summary, there were restrictions on the policy that could have affected Mrs H making a 
claim. At the point of sale AXA had to make sure that Mrs H got the information she needed 
to allow her to decide if the PPI was right for her. And I dont think it did provide adequate 
information, or any information, to allow Mrs H to understand the cost of and restrictions on 
the PPI policy that could have affected her. 
Because of Mrs Hs medical conditions, I dont think she would have taken out the PPI if she 
had been provided with adequate and clear information about the costs and restrictions on 
the policy, in particular relating to medical conditions.Therefore, taking everything into account, I think better information about the PPI would 
have put Mrs H off taking out the cover and so I think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding the complaints that the PPI policy was mis-sold. 
So AXA needs to put Mrs H as far as possible in the position she would be in if she had not 
been sold any PPI.
Mrs H borrowed extra on her card in the months when the PPI premium was added to her 
account, and she paid interest on those premiums if the account wasnt cleared. Mrs H 
needs to get back all the extra shes paid for the PPI. 
So AXA should work out what Mrs H actually paid for the cost of the PPI, including any 
interest or charges caused by the premiums and it must pay back to Mrs H everything she 
paid for the PPI policy. 
AXA must also work out some compensatory interest for the time Mrs H didnt have use of 
the money that was paid for the PPI. This is worked out on each amount paid for the PPI 
from the date Mrs H paid the PPI cost until the date she gets it back. The rate of interest is 
8% a year simple.
HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from the 8% compensatory interest 
and AXA must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out, Im upholding this complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold 
to Mrs H by AXA France IARD. Compensation should be calculated and paid to Mrs H as I 
have indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman