DRN-3023207
The complaint
Mr J complains Nationwide Building Society (NBS) has not treated him fairly after he 
disputed a payment on his credit card for a flight he did not receive.
What happened
The background to this dispute is well known to all parties so I dont intend to narrate this in 
full. However, to summarise:
On 30 August 2019 Mr J used his NBS Visa credit card to pay an airline for two 
return tickets for internal flights in South Africa for himself and another person (Ms 
J). The outbound flight was due to depart on 11 November 2019 while the return 
was due on 2 April 2020. £197.75 was charged to Mr Js card for the flights.
The return flight was cancelled as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr J was 
offered the equivalent of a credit note from the airline, which he wasnt happy to 
accept as he was seeking a refund. The airline then went insolvent.
Mr J approached NBS for assistance. He wanted to pursue a claim under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) for a refund of the return flight. He 
completed a set of dispute documents which NBS logged as having been received 
on 20 September 2020. 
NBS initially responded with a letter dated 16 November 2020, saying it was too late 
for Mr J to dispute the transaction under the Visa chargeback scheme. Mr J 
challenged this as hed been under the impression he had made a section 75 claim.
NBS passed the matter to their section 75 team, who said Mr J didnt have a valid 
claim because the tickets hed purchased were under the monetary limits for section 
75 to apply. Mr J complained about NBSs decision and the way it had handled 
matters, but it refused to change its mind.
Mr J subsequently referred his complaint to this service, where it was looked into by one of 
our investigators. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
concluded:
NBS had been correct to say it was too late to attempt a chargeback under the Visa 
scheme. This was because Visa had set a time limit which ran from 120 days from 
the date of the return flight, and by the time Mr J contacted NBS this deadline had 
been missed.
NBS had also been correct to say that Mr J didnt have a valid section 75 claim. In 
order for section 75 to apply to a purchase the item in question needed to cost more 
than £100. In Mr Js case, each ticket had cost less than this, so section 75 did not 
apply.
In the context of the difficulties caused by the ongoing pandemic, NBS did not take a 
particularly long time to deal with Mr Js claim and it had not delayed matters.
Mr J didnt agree with our investigator. He disagreed specifically with the approach the 
investigator had taken to the monetary limits which applied to section 75 claims. He said:
It was the underlying intention of the purchase which was important. He was buying a 
family holiday with everyone travelling under the same booking, not separate items 
bought individually. So it was the overall price which should matter, which was over 
£100. Mr J compared the scenario with ordering a kitchen, where many parts might 
cost less than £100, but overall it was a kitchen being purchased and therefore it was 
the overall price of the kitchen which was relevant for the purposes of section 75.
The investigator considered Mr Js argument but didnt find it persuasive. He said he 
understood that it was Mr Js intention to use the tickets together, but it was still his view that 
the purchase was of two individual products each with a price below the threshold for section 
75 to apply. As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has not challenged our investigators findings on the question of the chargeback (Mr J 
was not looking for NBS to attempt a chargeback anyway), and delays in NBS dealing with 
the claims. I therefore dont intend to go into great detail on these issues.
I agree with our investigators analysis of the chargeback position. Chargeback is a 
mechanism via which a card issuer can dispute payments made on a card on behalf of its 
customer, for reasons specified in the rules of the relevant card scheme. My view is that a 
card issuer should attempt a chargeback if its customer requests one, so long as it would 
have a reasonable prospect of being successful.
Among the rules set by the card schemes are stipulations as to time. In other words, 
chargebacks must be made within certain time limits. Our investigator considered the time 
limit which applied in Mr Js case was 120 days from the date of the return flight. This is 
consistent with what the rules say. The investigator also explored whether the fact the airline 
had offered or given a credit note extended the time limit, and concluded they did not. 
Having read the same guidance our investigator did, I agree with the conclusion he reached 
and that it was too late, by the time Mr J contacted NBS, for a chargeback to be attempted. 
This is unfortunate as it appears a chargeback would have had a decent prospect of 
succeeding had it been made in time.
Similarly, I agree with our investigators conclusions regarding delays on NBSs side. I dont 
think there were significant delays, especially against the backdrop of the pandemic which 
was causing operational issues for many financial businesses. Had the delays caused the 
chargeback to go out of time then I might have taken a different view.
Section 75
Turning to the key point in dispute in Mr Js case, I think it would be helpful to start by 
quoting the relevant parts of section 75 of the CCA:
75 Liability of creditor for breaches by supplier
(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.

(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim

(b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash 
price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000

What this means is that where a consumer buys goods or services using a credit card, and 
they have a claim against the supplier of the goods or services for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation, they can make a claim against their credit card provider as well as the 
supplier. However, certain items are excluded from being covered, including any single 
item to which the supplier has attached a cash price not exceeding £100 or more than 
£30,000. So a single item costing £100 or less, will not be covered.
The key therefore, in Mr Js case, is to determine what the single items are which make up 
his purchase, and the cash price attached to them by the airline. 
Mr J says the single item is the group of tickets under the same booking i.e. his return ticket 
and Ms Js return ticket together. If this is correct then Mr Js purchase was made up of one 
single item costing the equivalent of £197.75 (the purchase was actually made in South 
African rand). Our investigator thought each persons return ticket was a single item, 
meaning each single item cost about £99 and was therefore not covered by section 75.
Identifying the single item is often a straightforward exercise and in many cases will be the 
amount charged to the credit card. It is not always so straightforward where multiple items 
which are, or could have been, individually-priced, are bought together. Where such items 
are bought together in a larger quantity at an inclusive price (e.g. as part of a bulk discount 
or special offer), then the single item may well be the purchase as a whole. But it depends 
on the nature of the thing being purchased, and how it is presented for sale.
Mr J highlighted the example of buying a kitchen from a supplier. You may receive an 
invoice from the supplier which breaks down the cost of the various components which make 
up the kitchen, from cabinet doors to individual screws, but that doesnt necessarily mean 
that each cabinet door or each screw is a single item for the purposes of section 75. 
This is where the way in which something has been presented for sale becomes important. If 
a person signed an agreement with a well-known supplier of kitchens to supply and fit a 
kitchen, then the single item being purchased is very likely to be the kitchen, even if a 
breakdown of the costs of the various parts is provided. 
Conversely, if a person took measurements and identified in the catalogue of a hardware 
store various items which they needed in order to build a complete kitchen, and then 
happened to order those items at the same time from the hardware store, its less likely that 
it could be said that they were purchasing a kitchen. Rather, it would seem more likely they 
had bought a number of single items which could together be assembled into a kitchen. 
Mr J has applied this logic to his purchase of airline tickets. Because they were bought at the same time and together for the purpose of a family holiday, he says, he was not buying 
individual tickets. He says it was the intention to purchase a family holiday, not individual 
flight tickets. 
It is certainly possible to buy multiple travel related services as a single item. A package 
holiday from a tour operator, for example, with an overall price quoted for a combination of 
flights and accommodation, would likely be a single item. As Ive said above, the way in 
which something is presented for sale is important and so I have carefully examined the 
available documents.
Mr J has provided three documents covering his booking with the airline. The first document 
appears to be a booking confirmation for the flights. It prominently features the name of Mr J 
and Ms J, and a booking reference. It also provides the details of the outbound and return 
flights. Next to Mr J and Ms Js names are different e-ticket numbers. There are no details of 
the price.
The second and third documents are the e-tickets themselves. They are identical apart from 
the names (one is in Mr Js name, the other is in Ms Js name) and the ticket numbers. Each 
ticket contains the details of the fare and various taxes and charges. At the bottom of each 
ticket the following line appears: total fare ZAR 1647.22.
On the face of it, Mr J bought a return ticket for himself and a return ticket for Ms J, each 
costing ZAR 1647.221, albeit at the same time. It is the usual practice for each passenger to 
enter into a separate contract of carriage with an airline (where tickets are booked together) 
and, based on the airlines terms and conditions, I think that is what happened here. In my 
view, the single items are therefore each persons return ticket unless there is evidence to 
suggest the tickets were bought as a package or bundle, or otherwise presented for sale as 
a single item (for example as a holiday, as Mr J has suggested). Ive seen no evidence that 
this was the case. 
While the flights may have formed a part of a holiday Mr J was taking, they appear to have 
been purchased separately from any other holiday-related services. In the end, the 
documents show that the payment on Mr Js credit card relates to his purchase of two 
individual flight tickets each with a cash price under the threshold from which section 75 of 
the CCA would begin to apply. In light of this, I dont think Mr J was able to make a valid 
claim against NBS under section 75 in respect of either of the tickets and therefore my 
conclusion is that it was not unfair of NBS to decline his claim.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman
1 This would have been under £100 at the time of payment.