DRN-3787268
The complaint
T, a small business, has complained Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund money for transactions 
they didnt make.
Miss E, who trades as T, represents T in this complaint.
What happened
Miss E opened a business account in the name of T with Monzo in April 2022. In July she 
was using Ts card to withdraw cash and make some purchases. Just after that she noticed 
four transactions shed not made on Ts account and complained to Monzo. Miss E was sure 
Ts card had been cloned as shed not made these.
Monzo wouldnt repay Ts account as they could see the debit card must have been present 
to make these contactless transactions. Miss E brought Ts complaint to the ombudsman 
service.
Our investigator was aware that Miss E originally believed she hadnt lost Ts card and only 
noticed this later (along with another card shed lost). The nature of the transactions meant 
our investigator believed these hadnt been authorised by T. She asked Monzo to reimburse 
T.
Monzo disagreed with this outcome. Miss E had never informed them shed lost Ts card and 
they questioned why wed believed her. They asked an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Ts complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund customers if 
they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but nothing else 
specific in Ts case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Monzo and Miss E have told us.
Overall I believe the evidence doesnt support Monzos view that T authorised these 
transactions. I say this because of the following points:
All the disputed transactions were contactless and therefore didnt require a PIN. 
When the last transaction required a PIN for authentication, no PIN was entered and 
the transaction failed. If this had been Miss E, I see no reason why she wouldnt have 
entered the PIN correctly.
The disputed transactions all happened late at night, close together and didnt follow 
the normal transactions on Ts account. They do, however, look rather like fraudulent 
transactions. 
Miss E didnt have Ts card in her possession.
I appreciate Monzos scepticism about when Miss E lost Ts card. Theyve pointed out she 
was convinced the card had been cloned. I also note that Miss E regularly used Ts card so I 
would have expected her to notice and report it missing before she did in fact notice.
However I believe evidence about the disputed transactions is more convincing so overall 
Im satisfied T didnt authorise these. 
Putting things right
As I dont believe T authorised the four disputed transactions, Monzo will need to reimburse 
£165.14 to T. 8% simple interest will need to be added to this amount from 8 July until the 
amount is reimbursed.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Repay £165.14 to T; and
Add 8% simple interest from 8 July 2022 until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman