DRN-4505720
The complaint
Mr M complains that he received poor advice from Barclays Bank UK PLC causing him to 
lose out on a lower fixed interest rate on his mortgage. To put things right he wants Barclays 
to honour a lower backdated interest rate. 
What happened
Mr M has a mortgage with Barclays. His fixed interest rate was ending on 31 October 2022. 
In June 2022 Mr M took out a personal loan with Barclays in branch. Mr M says that he was 
advised to book a meeting with a mortgage advisor to discuss consolidating his personal 
loan at a later date.
Mr M says he was asked by branch staff to provide his payslips for an affordability check, 
after which an appointment would be booked with a mortgage advisor. Mr M says that he 
was told that hed need to prove he was a earning a minimum of £3,500 a month and that he 
was promised a lower interest rate than the one he was currently on. 
Mr M says that on the advice of Barclays, he worked extra hours over several months to 
increase his pay. He says that it wasnt until early October that branch staff agreed to 
arrange an appointment for him with a mortgage advisor. He said he tried to arrange an 
appointment sooner on several occasions, but he was refused  because he did not meet 
the necessary income requirements.
A meeting with a mortgage adviser took place on 12 October, she didnt advise Mr M to 
consolidate his lending and he was advised to complete a rate switch online. Mr M says he 
chose to use a different branch instead and was able to obtain a new interest rate through a 
mortgage advisor on the same day without having to wait months like before.
Mr M complained to Barclays. He says that he was given poor advice and that he acted on 
what he was told in good faith. As a result, he wasted unnecessary time and missed out on 
the opportunity to secure a lower interest rate sooner. He says that it was never his intention 
to consolidate his loan. He should have been told he could have done a simple rate switch 
sooner and without the need for payslips. 
Barclays considered the complaint and upheld it in part. It said that it accepts it took too long 
in October, to arrange an appointment with a mortgage advisor, and that it took too long to 
respond to the complaint. Barclays offered Mr M £250 compensation. Barclays didnt agree 
to honour a backdated interest rate because it didnt think that it prevented Mr M from 
obtaining a new interest rate sooner than he did. Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr M 
didnt accept the offer and he brought his complaint to our service instead. 
An investigator at our service looked into things and thought Barclays had fairly settled this 
complaint. He didnt recommend that it needed to do anything more in the circumstances. 
Mr M remained unhappy and asked for his case to be decided by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M complains about the advice he says he received from Barclays in branch. Barclays has 
also provided testimony from branch staff. The staff member in question has provided a 
different recollection about how his conversations with Mr M went. These conversations are 
unrecorded as they took place face to face. So its impossible for me to know for certain 
what was discussed at the time. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as some of it is here, Im required to 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened, in light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Based on what Ive seen, I do think its possible that the option of consolidating Mr Ms 
personal loan was discussed as he describes. Its correct that to borrow further funds on his 
mortgage for debt consolidation, Mr M would need to speak to a mortgage advisor to go 
through a full application  during which Barclays would need to assess his affordability. 
Mr M says he was told by branch staff that he needed to earn a certain amount to qualify for 
further borrowing and a new interest rate on his mortgage. He also says that he was refused 
an appointment with a mortgage advisor on several occasions. The staff member says 
otherwise. He says the process for applying for a further advance was discussed but he 
didnt tell Mr M that he needed to provide documentation for a rate switch only or that he was 
refused an appointment sooner. 
Mr M says he wasted time trying to improve his finances and gathering documentation. He 
says he never wanted to consolidate his loan and he was wrongly advised to do that in 
branch  to be told later by the mortgage advisor that this wasnt a suitable option for him.
I appreciate Mr M feels very strongly that he was misled by Barclays. I dont have any 
reason to doubt his testimony about the conversations he says he had with branch staff as 
he recalls them. But Ive not seen enough to fairly say that Barclays intentionally misled 
Mr M. Like Ive said, information given about the process of borrowing additional funds was 
likely correctly given, and I think thats where the correlation with supplying payslips applies.
Its also important to note here that the staff member Mr M spoke to in branch is not qualified 
to provide mortgage advice and so its not his role to assess affordability for mortgage 
lending. Thats why a meeting with a mortgage advisor was necessary to discuss borrowing 
additional funds. Ive seen no evidence that an affordability assessment was carried out by 
branch staff  so its difficult for me to conclude that specific income criteria was discussed 
with Mr M to the extent that he suggests.
I do think there has been some misunderstanding about what Mr M says he was told the 
process for obtaining a new interest rate was. I see no reason why Barclays would 
reasonably refuse Mr M the opportunity to apply for a new intertest rate or say that he had to 
speak to a mortgage advisor to do so. Lending (including securing an interest rate) is also 
not guaranteed until a customer is issued with a mortgage offer, so whilst current rates may 
have been discussed, I think its unlikely an interest rate was verbally promised and, in any 
way, suggested to be guaranteed for Mr M  because interest rates change all the time, and 
the branch staff would know that. 
In early August, Barclays sent Mr M a letter reminding him that his fixed rate was ending. The letter said:
Thank you for having your mortgage with us. Your current mortgage rate ends in 
October 2022 and will automatically switch to the Lifetime Tracker, as agreed when 
you took out your mortgage.
Choosing a new mortgage rate can be a big decision, so It's Important to consider all
your options.
If you don't feel the Lifetime Tracker is suited to your needs, we are pleased to offer 
you exclusive mortgage rates from our Reward range. By switching rates and staying 
with Barclays, there are no legal fees or property valuation fees, and you won't 
undergo any other Income or affordability assessments.
If you're happy choosing a new mortgage rate without any advice, you can switch 
easily online. Visit www.barclays.co.uk/rateswitch and take a look at our range of fixed 
and tracker mortgage rates to get an indication of what your new monthly payments 
would be.
If you feel you would benefit from advice and would like to book an appointment with 
one of our mortgage specialists, call us on 0333 202 7578* or speak to an 
Independent financial adviser.
Mr M says he never wanted to consolidate his loan, and this should not have been 
suggested to him. Based on what Ive seen, and everything I know about Barclays 
processes in general, I think its likely the reason Mr M was likely offered an appointment 
with a mortgage advisor was because hed enquired about possible further borrowing  not 
solely to do a rate switch. I appreciate Mr M was later advised against consolidating his loan, 
but the outcome of the mortgage advisors recommendation could not be foreseen by branch 
staff. As Ive said it was not the staff members role to assess mortgage suitability and/or 
affordability. 
If Mr M didnt want to consolidate his loan as he suggests, its important to note here, that 
when Barclays wrote to him in August, he was given enough information to know that he 
could apply for a rate switch online or over the phone  without the need for an appointment 
or an affordability assessment. So despite what Mr M says he was told, there was nothing 
preventing him from exploring a new interest rate sooner than he did. And Im satisfied that 
the letter made his options clear. 
Barclays accepts that it took longer than necessary to arrange an appointment with a 
mortgage advisor in October 2022. Thats the soonest it had record of Mr M asking for an 
appointment with a mortgage advisor. It upheld this part of the complaint and offered Mr M 
£250 compensation. Considering everything I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and fairly reflects the delay experienced of a couple of weeks. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest Mr M was refused a sooner appointment.
I appreciate Mr M is unhappy with his current interest rate. In October 2022 he opted for a 
variable interest rate that tracks 1% above the Bank of England base rate for two years until 
30 November 2024. As Ive explained there was nothing preventing Mr M from exploring a 
new interest rate sooner than he did and I cant reasonably hold Barclays responsible for any 
interest rate rises during this time or expect it to honour a backdated interest rate in the 
circumstances.My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr M £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman