DRN-2713707
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has logged a fraud marker 
against his record and cancelled his home insurance policy and retained the premiums.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr B suffered a water leak in his kitchen and made a claim to Lloyds. It 
accepted the claim and in February 2019 sent contractors out to carry out the strip out of the 
kitchen and to commence the drying process. Whilst this was going on Mr B contacted 
Lloyds and advised that two larder cupboards had collapsed. Lloyds sent out its loss 
adjusters to investigate. They came to the conclusion that Mr B had deliberately caused the 
cupboards to collapse. They noted in particular that Mr B had previously asked the 
contractors to deliberately damage the kitchen units as he didnt want his old kitchen being 
put back. It was also alleged that he had offered to pay a cash bribe to the contractors if they 
could get Lloyds to agree to a new kitchen. In respect of the cupboards themselves, they 
werent in the water damaged area and there was no reason for them to collapse. The loss 
adjusters also explained that the way the cupboards collapsed didnt accord with falling on 
their own. Lloyds believed Mr B had deliberately collapsed the cupboards.
Lloyds logged the collapse as a new claim for accidental damage. However it was satisfied 
that Mr B had breached the fraud condition in the policy, and rejected the claim. It also 
cancelled Mr Bs policy from the date of the report. This didnt affect the claim for escape of 
water. It also logged a marker in respect of the fraud with CIFAS (fraud prevention service). 
Mr B accepted Lloyds decision at the time but he then found he was refused a loan and 
other insurances of his were cancelled due to the marker. He complained to Lloyds and said 
he hadnt intended to make a claim, merely to ask for advice as to how to proceed. Lloyds 
said Mr B was clearly trying to seek payment for the cupboards and it was justified in its 
decision to reject the claim and cancel the policy.
On referral to this service our investigator thought that Lloyds had made a reasonable 
decision. Mr B didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has said that Mr B made a fraudulent claim. I should say at the outset that I wont be 
making a finding that Mr B was fraudulent or not, but I will give my view as to whether I think 
Lloyds made a fair and reasonable decision. To accuse a person of fraud is a serious matter 
and there needs to be strong evidence to justify an insurers decision in doing so.
For there to be fraud, the person alleged to have committed it 1) must be aware theyre 
being dishonest, and 2) is being said to make a personal gain for themselves (or another) 
person, or causing a loss or risk of loss to another. And in connection with insurance that the 
person is trying to:
Make a claim that wouldnt normally be paid under the policy appear to be one that 
would be; or
Increase the amount the consumer could claim for, to more than theyre entitled to.
There must also be a term in the policy entitling to Lloyds to take the action it did. There is 
such a term here, and I wont repeat it, but Im satisfied that in the event that it decided there 
was a fraudulent claim, Lloyds was entitled to take the action it did.
First of all Mr B says he wasnt making a claim but had merely contacted Lloyds to ask for 
advice about what to do following the collapse of the cupboards. He never intended for there 
to be a new claim set up. However whether it was part of the escape of water claim or a new 
claim Mr B was seeking to get payment for his kitchen cupboards. In his statement to Lloyds 
he said that whilst he didnt ask to make a claim, It would be lovely if Insurers do pay for 
them, but I will await Insurers decision accordingly. Lloyds decided to set up a new 
accidental damage claim as it considered the new loss to be too far removed from the 
escape of water claim. It also had in mind that if it was found that Mr B was acting 
fraudulently in respect of the escape of water claim, the whole claim might fail. So Lloyds 
was entitled to set up a new claim, even if as Mr B says he was just seeking advice, as he 
clearly expected payment.
As regards the actual circumstances of the claim, the loss adjusters found that: 
Mr B had taken a video some days before the collapse pushing the units to show they 
were unstable but didnt draw this to their attention.
Statements from several members of the contracting team said that Mr B had tried to 
persuade and/or bribe them to damage the kitchen units when taking them out.
The cupboards in question were at the other end of the kitchen from the escape of water. 
They wouldnt have been damaged by this or the drying.
The way the cupboards fell was inconsistent with the way they were placed (and shown 
in photos). 
Mr B had altered the position of the dryers and temporary worktop to look as though they 
had affected the cupboards after the engineer had attended.
The cupboards had been deliberately pushed over.
After this Lloyds wrote to Mr B setting out clearly that it not only rejected the claim but 
because it believed it to be fraudulent, was voiding the policy and reserved its right to report 
the fraud to other third parties. Mr B didnt query this until over a year later when he realised 
that his name had been logged on the CIFAS database. 
Taking into account the evidence obtained by Lloyds I think it has given us enough evidence 
to show that it made a reasonable decision on the facts of this case. So it acted as it was 
entitled to do so in respect of the claim and reporting the facts of it. As Ive said it could have 
opted to regard it as part of the original escape of water claim which could have led to some 
or all of that claim not being paid. But whether or not it was logged as a new claim, or 
considered as a part of the escape of water claim doesnt affect what Lloyds found about the 
damage and I have found about the conclusion it made.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman