DRN-4111503
The complaint
Mr D complains that ReAssure Limited gave him incorrect and unclear information, and 
caused unnecessary delays in the transfer of his pension to another business.
What happened
Mr D is a permanent resident outside of the UK and had a personal pension plan (PPP) with 
ReAssure.
On 27 April 2022 he asked ReAssure to withdraw 25% of the value of his PPP. However, he 
was told his PPP didnt allow withdrawals to be made and he would either need to transfer to 
another provider, or change to ReAssures Retirement Account. The key features of this 
account were emailed to Mr D. He spoke to ReAssure again on 28 April 2022, and it offered 
him a Retirement Account from which he would be able to make withdrawals. ReAssure sent 
him a letter on 3 May 2022 confirming that withdrawals werent possible from his present 
PPP and he would need to transfer to a product that allowed this. It included an information 
leaflet and told him that prior to switching, he should seek guidance from the free and 
impartial pension guidance service it gave details of. 
However ReAssure didnt explain to Mr D in either of the calls on 27 or 28 April 2022 that, 
due to his residency outside of the UK, it was unable to offer him a Retirement Account. But 
this information was included in the key features document emailed to him on 27 April 2022 
and in the information leaflet it sent him on 3 May 2022.
Mr D decided to transfer his PPP to an entirely new provider, who Ill refer to as firm G.
G first sent an electronic transfer request on 13 May 2022 and a further one on 17 May 
2022. But on both occasions they were addressed wrongly and were not received by 
ReAssure Limited. G sent the request to the correct address on 21 May 2022.
On 23 May 2022 ReAssure sent Mr D a transfer questionnaire and asked for further 
information so that it could complete due diligence on the transfer. This information was 
received by ReAssure on 25 May 2022.
Mr D called ReAssure on 26 May 2022 to check it had received his form. This was confirmed 
and Mr D was informed the transfer would be completed within 10 to 15 working days. But 
this was incorrect as Mr D was going to need to speak to the pension guidance service prior 
to the transfer being completed, and he wasnt informed of this in the call.
Mr D spoke to someone else at ReAssure later that day who mistakenly told him that the 
questionnaire hed completed was the wrong one, and hed need to complete and return 
another. Mr D completed and returned this on 27 May 2022. 
On 8 June 2022 Mr D complained to ReAssure about the delays in the transfer, and that he 
was unable to draw down part of his fund.
On 14 June 2022 ReAssure told Mr D to speak to the pension guidance service before the 
transfer could be authorised. Mr D confirmed he had done this on 22 June 2022 and the 
transfer was completed on 23 June 2022 to a value of £65,866.14. This was the amount 
backdated to 21 May 2022, the date the correctly addressed electronic transfer request was 
received from G.
On 7 July 2022 ReAssure sent Mr D its response to his complaint. It explained that Mr D had 
had to fill in the questionnaire and seek guidance for the transfer to go ahead as a result of 
new legislation which had come into force in November 2021. ReAssure said it was required 
to examine the transfer closely and as there were some risk factors it needed to take further 
steps. And it said it had explained to Mr D that this may have to happen in an email on 23 
May 2022. 
But it apologised for giving him incorrect information in his calls to them on 26 May 2022. It 
said this resulted in Mr D being inconvenienced as he had to fill in another questionnaire 
which was unnecessary. It also apologised that his non-UK residency had not been 
recognised during the calls on 28 April 2022 and 26 May 2022 and acknowledged this too 
had caused him inconvenience. It offered Mr D £250 compensation for the inconvenience 
hed been caused by the incorrect information.
Mr D didnt accept this resolution. He said ReAssure had caused delays as it shouldve 
made it clearer that the Retirement Account wasnt available to him as an overseas resident, 
and it was unfair that it didnt offer such a facility for people in his position. No agreement 
could be reached, so Mr D brought the complaint to our Service.
Having considered everything, our Investigator didnt think ReAssure needed to do anything 
more. He thought that ReAssure had included the fact that the Retirement Account was only 
available to UK residents within the retirement options pack. As this was a business decision 
made by ReAssure, and our Service cant mandate a business to change its processes, he 
could not say it was unfair of ReAssure to not offer him this facility. 
Our Investigator also thought ReAssure couldnt be held responsible for any delays to the 
process caused by G sending the electronic transfer request to the wrong address. And he 
thought the delay caused by ReAssures compliance with the new regulations was also 
reasonable, and that the final transfer date of 23 June 2022 was acceptable. And he thought 
ReAssures action in backdating the value of his PPP to 21 May 2022, which actually 
increased its value, was more than he wouldve expected it to do as he didnt think ReAssure 
had caused any undue delays.  
Having considered the offer of £250 compensation for the inconvenience Mr D had been 
caused, our Investigator also thought this was fair and in line with our Services guidance.
Mr D didnt agree. He thought, in summary:
That he, as a non-UK resident, being unable to transfer to a pension which allowed 
periodic withdrawals was not made sufficiently clear. And whilst ReAssure was not 
legally required to provide the service to non-UK residents, it wasnt good practice 
not to, and our Service should be able to comment on the merits of ReAssures 
policy.
ReAssure ought to have identified to G or Mr D which electronic transfer address G 
needed to use.
The lengthiest delays were caused by the additional checks ReAssure said it needed 
to carry out, and that Mr D was only informed of the requirement to obtain impartial 
guidance once the red flags had been identified. Mr D didnt think the intention of the 
legislation was for the requirement to be applied in every case.The amount of information he had to scan and send to ReAssure about G was 
excessive and delays were caused by ReAssure not being able to open the type of 
file he sent this in. 
But having considered Mr Ds points our Investigator didnt change his mind, so the 
complaint has come to me for a final decision. Mr D has asked that, in addition to his points 
above, I consider whether ReAssures interpretation of the legislation was correct, and 
whether it had been fair to require him to receive guidance, causing a delay. He also wanted 
me to give an opinion on the apparent ambiguity of the information provided to him by 
ReAssure  it had told him he could transfer his funds into a ReAssure account which would 
allow partial payments out - and it should be bound by this offer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has made a number of detailed points, and I have considered them all. Were an 
informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this 
complaint Ive focused on what I consider to be the heart of the matter, rather than 
commenting on every issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr D, rather it 
reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it. 
I dont need to make a determination over whether ReAssure was correct in its interpretation 
of the legislation when it required Mr D to seek impartial guidance before it would complete 
the transfer. I say this because I cannot see that Mr D has been financially disadvantaged by 
this. In fact ReAssure has backdated the value of his pension for the transfer to the day it 
received the electronic transfer request. So any administration or requirements made by 
ReAssure after the transfer request was received by it have had no negative effect on the 
value of Mr Ds pension. Mr Ds pension was actually worth £65,866.14 when backdated to 
21 May 2022, as opposed to £64,119.39 had it been valued on 23 June 2022.
Having considered everything, I agree with the view of the Investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain.
I can understand the frustration Mr D has felt by both the ambiguous and on two occasions 
wrong information he was given by ReAssure. And as this information related to his 
retirement fund I can understand why this also caused him distress. ReAssure has 
recognised and acknowledged the mistakes it made in not recognising that he was not a UK 
resident, and that this would prevent him transferring into its Retirement Account. 
Whilst I can see that this account wouldve given Mr D what he wanted, in being able to 
make withdrawals from his pension, this facility wasnt available to him as he wasnt a UK 
resident. I understand the frustration caused when he was mistakenly told he could have this 
account, but it would not be fair for me to require ReAssure to honour incorrect information it 
gave him, as this would provide Mr D with something he was never entitled to have. 
I am satisfied that ReAssure were not responsible for not receiving the first two electronic 
transfer requests made by G. I say this because they were not addressed correctly, and it 
wasnt ReAssures responsibility to ensure the transfer requests sent to it were correct and 
sent to the right address. And I can see that once the request was received by ReAssure it 
actioned it in a timely manner.
I can understand that it was inconvenient for Mr D to have to scan and send a large amount 
of information about G to ReAssure, but Ive not seen anything which would cause me to believe that this information wasnt reasonably required. And whilst it was frustrating that 
ReAssure were unable to access the file format that Mr D used when he originally sent this, 
and he had to resend this in another format, this was due to the limitations of the systems 
used by ReAssure. And its not the role of our Service to tell businesses what systems they 
should use.
So having considered everything, Im satisfied that Mr D has not suffered any financial loss 
due to the mistakes made by ReAssure and in the transfer process. I do however think that 
he has suffered some distress and inconvenience, and that some compensation is due to 
him for this. 
Mr D thought, as a result of what he was told, that he was able to open a ReAssure 
Retirement Account to access his pension fund. So I accept he was caused some loss of 
expectation here. But this misinformation was corrected by ReAssure relatively quickly, after 
a few days at most, so Ive not seen anything which leads me to think this had a significant 
impact on Mr Ds long-term plans. 
So having considered the errors, and the apparent impact of these, Im satisfied that the 
£250 ReAssure has offered Mr D is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and is broadly 
in line with our Services approach to compensation. 
My final decision
I require ReAssure Limited, if it hasnt already done so, to pay Mr D £250 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman