DRN-3154210
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as E, complains Great Lakes Insurance SE delayed providing it 
with decision on an insurance claim and about the about the impact this had. 
Mr A, who is a director of E, brings the complaint on Es behalf.   
All references to Great Lakes are intended to include the actions of its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr A Ive considered and thought carefully about all of the points he has 
made. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised 
or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by both 
parties to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator that the complaint 
should be upheld, and compensation awarded to E. The decision I need to make is how 
much should be paid.  Having reviewed everything, I think Great Lakes should pay E £100. 
Ive reached this outcome for the following reasons: 
It isnt in dispute there was a delay in Great Lakes providing an answer on the claim to E. 
There were reasons why a decision may have taken some time to reach however I think 
there an opportunity for Great Lakes to have given its outcome earlier than it did.
During this time E was limited in how it could communicate with the third party, which 
made its business relationship difficult. Im mindful however this may have been the case 
in any event, even if there hadnt been a delay.
E had an increased amount of administration to deal with during that time, forwarding 
information to Great Lakes.
E has said Great Lakes delay caused it monetary difficulties as the third party didnt pay 
an invoice and it lost potential work. However, given the claim that was being made by 
the third party I think its more likely than not these difficulties may have arisen in any 
event. So, I wont be concluding Great Lakes delay solely caused these issues.
It isnt the role of this service to fine or punish a business, or in this case an insurer, 
where it gets something wrong. I think Great Lakes did delay in providing a claim 
decision to E and therefore caused it some inconvenience as E couldnt move the matter 
forward directly with the third party earlier.  To reflect this, I think it should pay E £100 
compensation.
For the reasons above, I uphold this case. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Es complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE. I direct it 
to pay E £100 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman