DRN-4128282
The complaint
Mr D complains about how his insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA), handled a claim under 
his home insurance policy for damage to his property from an escape of water.
References to AXA include their agents who handle claims.
What happened
In March 2022 there was an escape of water at Mr Ds property, which Mr D thought came 
from a leak behind the tiles in a downstairs bathroom (possibly from a shower mixer). Mr D 
contacted AXA to tell them of the incident and lodge a claim. AXA asked him to engage a 
contractor to fix the leak and provide a report on the cause of damage. Mr D found a 
plumber, who quoted £1,782 to trace and fix the leak, and provide a cause of damage report.
 
The plumber visited and concluded there was likely to be a leak behind the tiles, but this 
could only be confirmed by removing the tiles to inspect behind them. The plumber did this, 
identified the source of the leak and fixed it. He also prepared a cause of damage report and 
subsequently an estimate of the cost of repairing the damage, except for the cost of 
replacing the tiles removed to identify and fix the leak (£1,942 plus VAT).
Mr D then obtained estimates from contractors for the repair work needed to reinstate the 
bathroom (including stripping and drying out; reinstatement of the bathroom, tiles and 
replacement shower tray and vanity unit). In total, the estimates came to £6,204 (including 
VAT). AXA considered the estimates and produced their own scope of works for the repair 
and reinstatement work, which they costed at £2,768. Deducting the policy excess of £500, 
this meant a cash settlement offer of £2,268 (plus VAT).
Unhappy at the significant difference between AXAs offer and the estimates hed provided, 
Mr D complained to AXA. He said the cash settlement offer meant he wouldnt be able to 
carry out the repair and reinstatement work. Hed also been without a functioning shower for 
several months while the claim was assessed, in a property that was in disrepair. This 
caused him and his family significant stress.
AXA upheld the complaint. In their final response they referred to the policy terms and 
conditions stating payments made (including cash settlements) would reflect any discounts 
they would have received (had they used their own contractors to carry out the work), which 
was standard practice in the insurance industry. AXA noted theyd held a video conference 
with Mr D to discuss the estimates hed provided and to discuss the damage and complete 
their scope of work. AXA also said some items included in Mr Ds estimates werent needed 
to restore his property to its pre-incident condition and could be re-used (shower tray). AXA 
also noted Mr Ds estimates included redecoration of the living room, which they thought 
hadnt been damaged in the incident.
Taking these points into account, AXA increased their offer to £3,978 (net of the £500 policy 
excess). To which they would make an additional payment for VAT on production of VAT 
invoices once any repair and reinstatement work had been carried out. AXA also recognised 
the inconvenience Mr D had suffered, awarding £150 in compensation.
Mr D then complained to this service, unhappy at AXAs handling of his claim and that it 
wasnt settled some seven months after the incident. This caused significant stress to him 
and his family, as theyd been unable to use their shower and live in a property with damp. 
He thought AXA should have used their own loss adjuster and contractors to prepare an 
estimate of the work needed to repair the damage. He wanted AXA to cover the costs of the 
repair work and put him back in the position he was before the incident. He also wanted 
compensation for the significant stress and time his property had been in disrepair.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think AXA had provided a reason for why 
they hadnt accepted the estimates provided by Mr D, nor was he given the option of using 
AXA contractors to carry out the work. She didnt think there was unnecessary work in the 
estimates provided by Mr D. She thought the evidence indicated it wouldnt be practical to 
remove and refit the shower tray, so a new tray would be needed. She thought AXA should 
reimburse Mr D for all the costs hed incurred to date. She thought AXA should either settle 
the claim based on new (updated) estimates provide by Mr D or use their own contractors to 
complete the repair and reinstatement work. She also thought AXA should pay Mr D £200 
for the inconvenience hed suffered. 
AXA disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said Mr D included items in his estimates that shouldnt be covered under 
the claim (a new shower tray and sink) which they thought wouldnt have been damaged by 
the escape of water. AXA also said the estimates included an element of betterment.i
In my findings I concluded AXA had the choice how to settle a claim, including whether to 
use their approved contractors; make a cash settlement; or to use a contractor nominated by 
the policyholder. I also thought AXA reviewing the estimates from contractors approached by 
Mr D and then having a video conference to discuss them and the work needed was unfair 
or unreasonable. I also thought it reasonable for AXA to base payments (including cash 
settlements) at the cost AXA would have incurred had they used their contractors. I thought 
this likely to explain (at least in part) the difference between the estimates obtained by Mr D 
and the cash settlement offered by AXA.
I also thought there were elements between AXAs cash settlement and Mr Ds contractor 
estimate that were likely to explain the difference in the respective figures, including 
treatment of VAT, the policy excess, inclusion of the cost of a shower tray and the point 
about AXA contractor rates likely to be lower than those for Mr Ds contractors. But I did 
conclude AXA should include the estimated cost of a replacement shower tray in their cash 
settlement offer. 
On the issue of how AXA handled the claim, including the time to accept the claim and offer 
a settlement, I thought it wasnt unreasonable for AXA to want to review the scope of the 
work contained in the estimates (and the costs) before confirming their cash settlement offer. 
It was also reasonable to reconsider the offer (and revise it) in the context of considering Mr 
Ds challenge and complaint. I concluded AXA hadnt taken an unreasonable time in making 
a settlement offer, reviewing it (and Mr Ds contractor estimates) before revising their offer.
On the question of compensation, having considered the circumstances of the case, I 
thought £200 was fair and reasonable.
Because I reached different conclusions in some respect to our investigator, I issued a 
provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is 
set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and whyIve considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether AXA have acted fairly towards Mr D.
In considering the complaint, the key issue is whether AXA have acted fairly in their offer of a 
cash settlement for the repair work due to damage from the leak. Mr D says the settlement 
(being less than the estimates from his contractors) means he cant carry out all the repair 
work needed. He also wants the repair and reinstatement work carried out by AXA 
contractors, to return his bathroom to its condition before the incident. AXA say their 
settlement is fair, reflecting the work required to repair the damage from the leak (but not 
other items). A second issue is the time taken for AXA to assess the claim, which Mr D says 
has caused him (and his family) considerable stress from being in a property without a 
functioning shower and state of disrepair. 
On the first issue, the cash settlement, Ive carefully considered the information and 
evidence available, including the estimates provided by Mr Ds contractors. However, AXA 
havent provided a copy of their scope of work (despite this being requested as part of my 
consideration of the complaint). AXA say their scope reflects the estimates provided by Mr 
Ds contractors, and in the absence of their scope of works Ive taken this to be the case. Ill 
consider separately the issue of whether there are items (as AXA maintain) that are included 
in Mr Ds estimates that werent damaged in the incident  (or could be reused or constitute 
betterment).
In terms of Mr Ds concern that the value of the cash settlement is significantly less than the 
estimates he provided, Ive looked at what the policy terms and conditions say about the 
settlement of claims. Under the heading What happens when a claim is notified it states:
We will choose the most suitable option for you when repairing or 
replacing damaged items
We use approved suppliers to settle claims. If We agree to use a supplier of 
Your choice or where We settle directly with You, any payments(s) will take 
into account any discount We would have received.
Taking these terms and conditions together, its AXAs choice how to settle a claim, including 
whether to use their approved contractors; make a cash settlement; or to use a contractor 
nominated by the policyholder. So, while they asked Mr D to provide estimates for the repair 
and reinstatement work, this doesnt mean theyre obliged to accept the estimates and settle 
the claim on the figures provided. Its standard practice for insurers to assess the cost of 
estimates provided by contractors nominated by policyholders and compare them to a scope 
of work they prepare for what they assess is needed to repair and reinstate the damage 
caused by an incident. So, I dont think AXA reviewing the estimates and then having a video 
conference to discuss them and the work needed was unfair or unreasonable.
The policy terms and conditions also make it clear where AXA agree to use suppliers 
nominated by the policyholder or where they make a cash settlement to the policyholder, 
payments are at the cost AXA would have incurred had they used their contractors. Given 
the ability of insurers to negotiate discounted rates from contractors they work with (given 
the volume of work they place) these rates (and costs of repairs) are likely to be lower than 
those a policyholder can obtain. I think this likely to explain (at least in part) the difference 
between the estimates obtained by Mr D and the cash settlement offered by AXA. So, I dont 
think AXAs approach unfair or unreasonable.Ive also considered the difference between the figures provided by Mr D and AXAs cash 
settlement. The former came to a total of £6,204 (including VAT). AXAs revised cash 
settlement offer was £3,978 (after deduction of the policy excess of £500). As the policy 
excess would be deducted from the value of the claim, however it would be settled, then 
deducting £500 from Mr Ds contractor estimate would mean a net figure of £5,704. AXAs 
offer is also exclusive of VAT (which they would reimburse on production at a VAT invoice 
for the completed works). I think its therefore reasonable to add VAT to the cash settlement 
figure (before deduction of the policy excess). At a rate of 20% on a figure of £4,478, this 
would indicate an additional £895.60, taking the gross figure to £5,373.60. Deducting the 
£500 excess would mean a net settlement of £4,873.60. Compared to the net contractor 
estimate of £5,704 this suggests a difference of £830.40. 
Ive also considered the issue of whether  as AXA maintain  there are items in Mr Ds 
contractor estimate that shouldnt be covered under the claim (a new shower tray and sink) 
which they thought wouldnt have been damaged by the escape of water. AXA also said the 
estimates included an element of betterment. 
On the shower tray (costed at £359.95 in Mr Ds contractor estimate) AXA maintain it could 
be removed and refitted, so wouldnt need replacing. Ive considered this issue, but on 
balance Im not persuaded that in the circumstances of the case it would be possible to 
remove and refit the shower tray following its removal. So, I think an element for a 
replacement would be reasonable. In the absence of an alternative figure, I think the 
£359.95 figure in Mr Ds contractor estimate should be added to AXAs cash settlement 
figure. Which would take the gross total to £5,733,55 (£5,233.55 net of the policy excess).
On the sink issue, I understand Mr D accepts this could be removed and refitted (on a 
replacement cupboard unit). That being the case, I dont think any adjustment to AXAs cash 
settlement figure would be needed (or reasonable).
Taking all these points into account, the adjusted difference (on a comparable basis) 
between Mr Ds contractor estimate and AXAs cash settlement figure would be £471.45 
(£5,704 less £5,233.55). As Ive indicated above, AXAs rates are likely to be lower than 
those available to a policyholder because of the discounts they are able to secure from their 
contractors. And as Ive said, this is likely to account for at least some of the difference 
between their cash settlement offer and the estimate from Mr Ds contractor. In the 
circumstances, I think the difference of £471.45 (9.2%) is likely to be accounted for by this 
factor. On that basis, I think a revised cash settlement offer of £5,233.55 (to include an 
allowance for VAT and deduction of the policy excess) that includes an estimated cost of 
£359.95 for a replacement shower tray would be fair and reasonable.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive gone on to consider the second issue, how AXA 
handled the claim, including the time to accept the claim and offer a settlement. Looking at 
the information and evidence available, following the incident Mr D engaged a plumber to 
identify and fix the leak. AXA subsequently accepted the claim (May 2022) and asked for 
estimates from contractors approached by Mr D (to include estimates on headed paper and 
include tile replacement). Mr D sent AXA the estimates in mid-July 2022 and the video call 
took place in late July, after which AXA made their initial cash settlement offer. Mr D 
challenged the offer and complained. AXAs revised cash settlement offer was made in late 
September, as part of their final response to Mr Ds complaint. 
I dont think its unreasonable and for AXA to want to review the scope of the work contained 
in the estimates (and the costs) before confirming their cash settlement offer. Its also 
reasonable to reconsider the offer (and revise it) in the context of considering Mr Ds 
challenge and complaint.I appreciate Mr D feels the process took too long, leaving him in difficult circumstances at his 
property. But I dont think AXA took an unreasonable time in making a settlement offer, 
reviewing it (and Mr Ds contractor estimates) before revising their offer.
On the  issue of compensation, AXA awarded £150 for the inconvenience to Mr D  from what 
had happened. Given my conclusion about AXAs handling of the claim, Ive concluded Mr D 
has suffered distress and inconvenience from what has happened, and the way AXA have 
Handled the claim. I recognise that the damage from the incident and the process of making 
a claim and the process by which it is assessed is inherently stressful. Ive considered 
carefully what has happened and what Mr D has told us about the impact its had on him in 
his circumstances. Taking all these factors into account I think £200 is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mr Ds complaint in 
part. I intend to require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Revise their cash settlement offer, to include an estimated cost of £359.95 for a 
replacement shower tray.
Pay Mr D £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Mr D accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Mr D provided a detailed response covering a range of issues and points. Using the sub-
headings in his response, the key issues were, firstly, hed always wanted AXA to use their 
own contractors to carry out the repair work  he didnt want a cash settlement. It was AXA 
who opted for a cash settlement, telling him the only other option was for him to obtain 
contractor quotes. Not accepting the contractor quotes and offering a [lower] cash settlement 
meant he wasnt being indemnified against the loss and wasnt being put back in the position 
he was in before the incident.
Secondly, there wasnt any evidence to support AXAs Statement of Works or basis for their 
cash settlement. AXA didnt send any contractors to his property and the video call was brief 
(and with someone with an administrative background). Mr D doubted whether a statement 
of work existed, so it couldnt be shown hed been treated fairly. He thought AXA had based 
their cash settlement offer on the quotes from his contractors (rather than their own scope of 
work). He also questioned why AXA contacted him (in March 2023) asking if they could send 
round contractors. 
Thirdly, he didnt believe his quote contained an element of betterment. Specifically with 
respect to the shower tray, sink and painting of the lounge. 
Fourthly, the damage and damp at his property were now worse than when he lodged his 
claim and, combined with the effects of inflation, the cost to repair the damage will now be 
greater than it was. And the reason the damp and damage were worse was because AXA 
didnt make a reasonable settlement on a timely basis. And given the impact of inflation, the 
value of any settlement (or contractor quote) would have been diminished and the costs of 
repair have risen. Those costs should be borne by AXA as the process was the result of 
AXAs unfair treatment of him.Fifthly, while accepting AXA made a settlement offer relatively quickly after he provided 
contractor quotes, Mr D said it was an unfair offer he couldnt accept. Particularly as it took 
time for him to find contractors willing to provide quotes (and it wasnt his choice to do that). 
He would now want a cash settlement to enable him to engage local contractors to carry out 
the repair work.
Finally, on the issue of compensation, given the extent of the damage, stress and health 
risks caused by how AXA had handled his claim, he thought £300 compensation would be 
more reasonable.
AXA didnt respond by the deadline requested for comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AXA have acted fairly towards Mr D.
Id first want to assure Mr D that Ive considered all the points made in his response to my 
provisional decision, which Ive summarised above.
On his first point, I accept Mr D would have preferred AXA to use their contractors to carry 
out the repair work (rather than have a cash settlement). And its the case It was AXA who 
opted for a cash settlement, and the only other option was for him to obtain contractor 
quotes. But as I set out in my provisional decision, the terms and conditions of the policy 
mean its AXAs choice how to settle a claim, including whether to use their approved 
contractors; make a cash settlement; or to use a contractor nominated by the policyholder. In 
this case, they asked Mr D to provide estimates for the repair and reinstatement work. But  
to pick up Mr Ds point about AXA not accepting the contractor quotes -  this doesnt mean 
theyre obliged to accept the estimates and settle the claim on the figures provided. 
On the point that AXA offering a [lower] cash settlement meant Mr D wasnt being 
indemnified against the loss and wasnt being put back in the position he was in before the 
incident, as the provisional decision set out, the policy terms and conditions make it clear 
where AXA agree to use suppliers nominated by the policyholder or where they make a cash 
settlement to the policyholder, payments are at the cost AXA would have incurred had they 
used their contractors. With the ability of insurers to negotiate discounted rates, these are 
likely to be lower than a policyholder can obtain. As I said in the provisional decision, I think 
this likely to explain (at least in part) the difference between the estimates obtained by Mr D 
and the cash settlement offered by AXA. So, I havent changed my view AXAs approach 
wasnt unfair or unreasonable.
On the second issue, about the evidence to support AXAs Statement of Works or basis for 
their cash settlement, there was evidence of a statement of work (based on the quotes 
provided by Mr Ds contractors) even though AXA didnt provide it. But in the absence of this, 
I looked at the respective figures from Mr Ds contractor quote and AXAs cash settlement, 
setting out a number of factors that I thought would explain the difference. Based on this, I 
concluded AXAs revised cash settlement offer of £5,233.55 (to include an allowance for 
VAT and deduction of the policy excess) that included an estimated cost of £359.95 for a 
replacement shower tray would be fair and reasonable. 
So, I dont think Mr Ds points about AXA not sending contractors to his property and that the 
video call was brief (and with someone with an administrative background) change that 
conclusion. And AXA have said they based their statement of works (and cash settlement) on the quotes from his contractors. This isnt unreasonable, given the contractors had 
assessed the scope of work needed to repair the damage.
On the point about why AXA contacted him (in March 2023) asking if they could send round 
contractors, thats not something which would form part of this complaint (or this decision) 
and Ive not been provided with a reason for this. It would properly be a matter for Mr D to 
take up directly with AXA. 
On the third issue, that of betterment, Id considered these issues in my provisional decision. 
On the issue of the shower tray, I thought an element for a replacement would be 
reasonable. And on the sink (which Mr D accepted could be removed and refitted) I didnt 
think any adjustment to AXAs cash settlement figure would be needed. And given my 
conclusion on the overall differences between the figures in Mr Ds contractor quote and 
AXAs cash settlement, I dont think this issue affects my final decision.
On the fourth and fifth aspects, that the damage and damp at his property were now worse 
than when he lodged his claim, I recognise that may be the case. But as Ive concluded 
AXAs revised settlement offer was fair and reasonable, and they made their revised offer in 
a reasonable timeframe, for the reasons set out above, it doesnt change my provisional 
decision. So, I cant say that AXA should bear any additional costs that may have arisen 
since their settlement offer.
On the compensation issue, I considered this carefully when reaching my provisional 
conclusion. I appreciate Mr D feels a higher figure is more reasonable, but given my final 
conclusions set out above, I havent changed my view that £200 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Ds complaint in part. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Revise their cash settlement offer, to include an estimated cost of £359.95 for a 
replacement shower tray.
Pay Mr D £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Mr D accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman
i Betterment is where a policyholder is put in a better position than at the time of the incident, for example 
where additional work is carried out to improve a property to a better condition than it was in at the time of 
the event that caused damage.