DRN-3655356
The complaint
Mr B complains Acasta European Insurance Company Limited hasnt treated him fairly after 
he made a claim on his building warranty policy.
What happened
Mr B owns an apartment. There are seven apartments in the block. Three are owned by the 
freeholder, and the other four are owned by leaseholders (such as Mr B). Each apartment 
is covered by its own ten-year building warranty policy. Three of the four leaseholders are 
Mrs D, Mr B, and C (a limited company). 
Mrs D, Mr B, C, and the freeholder have made various claims for defects and water ingress. 
Mrs D, Mr B, and C have been jointly represented during the claims by a solicitor, and they 
have each brought a complaint to our service. Mrs Ds complaint and Cs complaint are 
being considered under separate cases.
The claims are being handled by the policy administrator, Global Home Warranties Limited, 
and its appointed loss adjuster. However, the cover is underwritten by Acasta, so its 
responsible for the claims and this complaint.
Ill now set out a broad timeline of events, based on the correspondence Ive seen between 
the various parties involved and their submissions:
- In April 2019, the first claim at the building was made by Mrs D. The claim was for 
her leaking roof/terrace. She provided a surveyors report to support her claim. 
Acasta arranged for the original builder to carry out repairs at its own cost.
- In November 2019, Mr B claimed for his leaking roof/terrace, and defective windows 
and doors. He also provided a surveyors report. Acasta approved a contractor to 
carry out repairs to his roof/terrace.
- In January 2020, Mrs D made a further claim for her roof/terrace. She was initially 
referred back to the original builder, but her claim was later accepted.
- In March 2020, C made a claim for its leaking roof/terrace, defective windows and 
doors, and cracking to the external walls. 
- In April 2020, the contractor undertaking the repairs at Mr Bs property discovered 
more extensive damage and recommended a structural survey and movement 
monitoring.
- In May 2020, Mrs D made a claim for a leak from her bathroom into Cs apartment 
below. The claim was declined at the time. Mrs D also made a claim for drainage 
issues on her terrace and for cracking to the external walls.
- In September 2020, Mrs Ds claim for the drainage issues was declined, and she was 
told she would need to provide a report for the cracking.
- In October 2020, the freeholder commissioned a report on the structural issues and 
cracking. The report was by an engineering firm, who Ill refer to as M.
- In November 2020, the freeholder made a claim for the structural damage, and the 
other claims were put on hold.
- M made seven recommendations: 1) the building should be made weathertight whilst 
investigations continue; 2) crack monitoring to assess movement; 3) a survey of the 
current cracking; 4) drawings for the building should be obtained; 5) an assessment 
of the influence of nearby trees, and the foundations reviewed for adequacy; 6) 
further investigations dependent on the drawings; and 7) a CCTV survey of the 
below-ground drainage. Acasta authorised the investigations to proceed.
- In March 2021, M issued an updated report to the freeholder. M set out the following: 
the crack monitoring had started in December 2020; further drawings were required; 
the assessment of nearby trees and the foundations had been carried out, but the 
pre-build geotechnical report was required along with further foundation 
investigations; and the drainage survey was still outstanding.
- In June 2021, the freeholder passed on Ms updated report and comments to the loss 
adjuster, and it asked for agreement on the recommended actions. The loss adjuster 
questioned the type of crack monitoring being undertaken, whilst M noted a lack of 
contact and progress being made by the freeholder. M withdrew from the project 
citing ill health and frustration with the lack of progress.
- In July 2021, the freeholder appointed a replacement engineering firm, who Ill refer 
to as S. Mr B also made a claim for leaks to the main roof and skylight. Unhappy 
with the progress being made on the claims, Mrs D, Mr B, and C also made a 
complaint to Acasta.
- In September 2021, S made six recommendations in a report to the freeholder. The 
recommendations were similar to those made by M, but they included 12 months of 
level monitoring (which had been started in August 2021), and an investigation into 
the adequacy of the wall ties (with significant concerns raised).
- In November 2021, S wrote to the freeholder noting four of the six recommendations 
had yet to commence, and it raised significant concerns about the lateral stability of 
all the outer leaf brickwork. S reiterated the outstanding recommendations and 
urgency.
Acasta provided a final response to Mr Bs complaint on 9 December 2021. Acasta noted it 
had accepted liability for the ongoing claims. Acasta offered Mr B £200 compensation for 
the claim delays, and to consider his legal fees on receipt of the invoices. Mr B remained 
unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service. 
In March 2022, S explained the structural defects are generally built in, rather than related to 
ground movement. Due to uncertainty about the condition and adequacy of the timber frame, 
S questioned the viability of carrying out a major programme of structural remedial works to 
restore structural integrity. S said the building isnt considered to be fit for purpose and 
consideration should be given to a demolition and re-build.In August 2022, one of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint. She said she could 
only consider matters up to 9 December 2021 (the date of Acastas final response), and if 
Mr B was unhappy about events since then, he would have to make a new complaint to 
Acasta. 
For the period our investigator was considering, she thought there were some delays and a 
lack of timely updates. She recommended the compensation be increased to £500. She 
thought Acastas offer to consider Mr Bs legal fees was fair and reasonable.
Acasta agreed with our investigators findings. But because Mr B disagreed, his complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. Ill summarise the points Mr B made in response to our 
investigators findings:
- A more thorough investigation was warranted from the outset, not a brief inspection. 
At the very least, Acasta should have formally declined the window aspect of the 
claims or outlined the further investigations necessary to decide on liability. Had 
Acasta done so, investigations would have been carried out which would have 
uncovered the inadequate fixing of the brick facade.
- Investigating the brick faade would have reduced the process which, in March 2022, 
led to S to conclude the building needs to be demolished and rebuilt. That conclusion 
could have been reached much sooner and minimised the unnecessary harm 
suffered.
- Between April and October 2020, the leaseholders notified Acasta of widespread 
cracking to the brick faade. However, no action was taken by Acasta until the 
freeholder engaged M.
- It wasnt made clear what issues Acasta would and wouldnt be considering under 
the policy.
- M fitted a series of crack monitoring devices, but no readings were taken to continue 
the monitoring exercise. So, between October 2020 and September 2021 limited 
progress was made. 
- The monitoring was abandoned leaving no alternative but to repeat the monitoring 
exercise. Ss September 2021 recommendations were almost identical to Ms 
recommendations eleven months earlier.
- Also, the drawings for the property werent obtained, which could have led to an 
understanding of the defects, and the conclusion the building needs to be 
demolished, much sooner.
- Limited progress continued between September 2021 and November 2021, when S 
issued a letter confirming as much.
- In March 2022, S concluded the building isnt fit for purpose, and there are no viable 
remedial works that would restore its stability and integrity. Acasta is yet to provide 
an update, despite being chased weekly.
- Between April 2020 and October 2021, Mr Bs terrace was in a deconstructed state. 
During warm weather the greenhouse effect from the tarpaulin cover caused the 
apartment to reach temperatures up to 40C; rainwater would pour in when it 
rained; and there was almost a constant sound of the tarpaulin rattling.- Since November 2019, the window next to Mr Bs sofa has been stuck open. It offers 
no sound deadening and allows a cold draft to cover the sofa in winter. Many of the 
remaining windows can only open partially or are stuck shut. Mr B cant open them 
wide enough to create a sufficient draft or use a portable air conditioning unit. Hes 
had to sleep in his living room most of the summer months this year.
- Despite the windows in Mr Bs bedroom being stuck shut, the structural movement 
means they cant form a good seal, so theres poor noise reduction performance. 
Mr B is regularly woken up by noise from outside.
- Mr B hasnt been unable to use his en-suite since October 2020. Not only is this an 
inconvenience, but it frequently smells of mould and sewage, forcing him to sleep 
upstairs.
- As the back wall and roof of the apartment move in the wind, Mr B is scared hes in a 
dangerous structure. There aren't any rooms in his apartment that don't show signs 
of major damage. Mr B is also living with the constant uncertainty he may have lost 
the money he has invested into his property. 
- Mr B has sent thousands of emails to various stakeholders and continues to incur 
monthly legal costs.
 
- Mr B constantly worries he has lost his home and will have nowhere to live. He 
experiences frequent and debilitating bouts of fear, anger, sadness, and anxiety. 
Mr Bs skin condition is exacerbated by stress, causing outbreaks that affect his 
quality of life and force him to take increased dosages of medications. 
- Acasta has caused unreasonable delays of about 24 months since Mr Bs initial 
claim.
- Mr Bs initial plan when he bought the property was to live in it for a short time and 
then rent it out. Mr B considers it reasonable to assume his property would have 
achieved a rental income of £13,000 per calendar month. So, he calculates his 
financial loss over the 24-month period of delay to be £312,000.
- Mr B also considers it reasonable to assign two hours a day to physical and mental 
suffering, at £77 per hour based on his earnings. So, based on an average 30 days 
per month, he considers £110,880 to be fair and reasonable compensation for the 
24-month period of delay.
In October 2022, Mr B provided our service with an update. He explained Acasta doesnt 
accept the findings of S, and it has suggested an independent report be carried out. He 
noted that S was instructed on the recommendation of Acastas loss adjuster.
In November 2022, Mr B made a further complaint to Acasta, copying in our investigator. He 
set out his dissatisfaction at the way his claims continue to be handled, and he explained he 
was seeking £1,762,840 for financial losses and compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Scope of this final decision
As explained by our investigator, this case is only covering up to the date of Acastas final 
response (9 December 2021). Acasta has to be given the opportunity to respond to a 
complaint about events after that date before our service can become involved.
Mr B has now made a further complaint to Acasta, and it will need to consider events since 
9 December 2021 when responding. Mr B can return to us should he not receive a final 
response from Acasta within eight weeks of when he made his complaint, or if hes 
unhappy with Acastas final response
However, our service has an award limit which is well below the £1,762,840 being claimed. 
Therefore, Mr B may wish to obtain independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
pursue a further complaint through our service, and equally, before deciding whether to 
accept my final decision on the complaint Im considering here. If Mr B accepts a final 
decision from our service, he might not be able to go to court to ask for more 
compensation.
April 2019 to April 2020
I understand Mr Bs frustration that the potential for structural defects wasnt identified until 
April 2020, and the issue with the wall ties until September 2021. However, I havent seen 
Acasta responded inappropriately to the initial claims made at the building by Mrs D and 
Mr B, or to the two surveys they provided. Neither of those surveys pointed towards 
structural issues.
Mr Bs surveyor thought the issues with the windows were due to the timber frame altering in 
position through shrinkage or settlement. Acastas loss adjuster thought the issues could be 
due to shrinkage or settlement, or poor installation. But either way, Mr Bs surveyor didnt 
suggest an invasive survey or point towards potential significant defects. The surveyor 
simply recommended the window reveals be enlarged so the windows could operate 
correctly.
So, overall, Im not persuaded Acasta caused delays, or acted unfairly or unreasonably, 
between April 2019 and April 2020.
May 2020 to October 2020
In April 2020, the contractor carrying out the repairs to Mr Bs roof/terrace emailed Global 
and recommended a structural survey and movement monitoring. In June 2020, the loss 
adjuster said he didnt have any concerns about the work progressing as there was only 
minor cracking. As such, it took the loss adjuster about seven weeks to respond to the 
contractors concerns (although I understand from the submissions that Covid related 
restrictions meant the works had stopped during this period anyway). 
The works at Mr Bs apartment didnt restart in June 2020 because he was concerned about 
them going ahead without an understanding of the structural defects, and how they might 
affect the work being carried out. 
Ive seen that between July and October 2020, Mrs D, Mr B, and C were all chasing the loss 
adjuster and/or Global for responses to their communications, and for updates on the claims 
relating to roofs/terraces, cracking, and windows and doors. I understand in September 2020, the loss adjuster told the leaseholders and the freeholder a 
report would be required on the cracking. The freeholder went on to commission a report by 
M, who visited on 9 October 2020.
So, there were about five months between May and September 2020, until a clear message 
was given about the next steps in respect of the cracking and wider structural concerns. Ive 
not seen Acasta progressed matters in a meaningful way during that period, and based on 
the correspondence Ive seen, the lack of communication was unreasonable.
November 2020 to December 2021
M was appointed by the freeholder to support the claim(s) for the structural cracking. Delays 
then followed because the freeholder didnt pass on Ms updated report to the loss adjuster 
for two and half months, and the freeholder was struggling to appoint a firm for the soil 
investigations. However, those circumstances arent something Acasta can be held 
responsible for.
In June 2021, when the loss adjuster received Ms updated report, he questioned the type of 
monitoring being carried out. He highlighted that the installed equipment (tell-tales) wouldnt 
identify heave, and level monitoring was more appropriate. Notably, S recommended level 
monitoring too. He also asked if any readings had been taken from the tell tales. M said no 
readings had been received yet. As such, Im persuaded there were delays caused by the 
wrong type of monitoring being undertaken, and in any event, readings not being taken. 
Those circumstances arent something Acasta can be held responsible for either.
The loss adjuster asked when the next tell-tale readings would be taken, and the timescales 
for the internal site investigation. M explained it had now removed itself from the project due 
to health reasons and frustration with the lack of progress. M said the questions needed to 
be directed at the freeholder, as it was the freeholder dictating the timeline. Ms departure 
caused a further delay until July 2021, when S was appointed. Acasta cant be held 
responsible for the delay caused by Ms decision to no longer be involved. 
In September 2021, S made six recommendations in a report provided to the freeholder, and 
in November 2021, S wrote to the freeholder noting four of the six recommendations had yet 
to commence. As I understand it, those actions were with the freeholder. I havent seen the 
freeholder was waiting on Acasta, or Acasta was delaying the freeholder from carrying out 
Ss recommendations. So, Im also not persuaded Acasta can be held responsible for the 
lack of progress between September and November 2021.
Ultimately, in November 2020, the leaseholders claims were all put on hold whilst the wider 
structural concerns were investigated by the freeholder. It follows that any remedial work or 
claim decisions would need to wait for the results of those investigations, as the structural 
defects are likely to have a bearing on those matters. 
Arguably, Acasta could have taken a more hands-on role in the freeholders investigations to 
ensure the right investigations were being carried out and progressed promptly. But overall, 
given the freeholder is responsible for the building, I dont consider it unreasonable the 
emphasis was placed on the freeholder to investigate the structural issues in the first 
instance.
I also note that when the loss adjuster became aware of the delays with the investigations in 
June 2021, he tried to assist. He clarified the type of crack monitoring that was needed and 
suggested a firm for the level monitoring and soil investigations. He also tried to assist the 
freeholders appointment of a replacement engineer, by recommending S.So, overall, Im not persuaded Acasta can reasonably be held responsible for the delays that 
occurred between November 2020 and December 2021.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
I dont doubt the impact the situation has had, and continues to have, on Mr B. However, Im 
only considering Acastas responsibilities and actions as the insurer (and only for the period 
of April 2020 to 9 December 2021). 
Importantly, Acasta didnt cause the building defects and its not responsible for the actions 
of the builder that built the building. Equally, much of the claim delay during the period Im 
considering was due to necessary investigations that were under the control of the 
freeholder.
As explained above, between April 2019 and 9 December 2021, Ive seen there were about 
five months of delay for which Acasta can reasonably be held responsible for (and that was 
between May and September 2020).
It follows that Mr B should be compensated for the five-month period of delay. But whilst 
Mr B has set out how he would like compensation to be calculated (£154 per day), his 
suggested method isnt in-line with our general approach. 
When considering whats fair compensation for the five-month period, Ive kept in mind the 
chasing Mr B had to do; the damage he had to live with in respect of the claims being 
considered by Acasta (based on the photos and reports from around that time); and the 
personal circumstances and impact he has described. Overall, I consider the £500 
recommended by our investigator to be fair and in-line with our general approach. 
Compensation for financial loss
Mr B says he has lost out financially by not being able to let his property. However, whilst 
Ive accepted Acasta caused about five months of delay, I cant reasonably assign financial 
loss to that period on the basis of what Mr B says he intended to do with his property at 
some point in the future. Ultimately, Mr Bs apartment wasnt being let at the time of the 
claims, but rather, he was living there.
In respect of Mr Bs legal fees, I find Acastas offer to consider those costs on receipt of the 
invoices to be fair and reasonable. Mr B can make a further complaint if hes unhappy with 
Acastas response to those invoices.
Other issues
If Acasta hasnt yet done so, it needs to respond to Mr Bs latest complaint for events since 
9 December 2021.
Acasta also needs to provide Mr B with a decision about his claims and explain its intended 
method of settlement. I wont comment on whether its reasonable for Acasta to carry out or 
commission further investigations first, because that matter will need to be considered as 
part of the further complaint.
It follows that Acasta will need to be clear about the following points when communicating its 
decision on the various claims:- Liability  its not clear from the submissions which claims Acasta has accepted and 
which it has declined. Acastas final response to the leaseholders notes the claims 
have been accepted. But given the uncertainty expressed by the leaseholders, 
Acasta needs to provide clarification to them, giving reasons if any issues are 
declined. Acasta should revisit the previous declinatures, bearing in mind the 
structural issues that have since come to light.
- Excesses  I havent seen Acasta has been clear about how the policy excess is to 
be applied. Acasta will need to set out how it intends to apply the policy excess to 
each of the accepted claims, bearing in mind the policy terms and whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
- Survey costs (since April 2019)  Acasta needs to confirm which survey costs, if any, 
its covering. If Acasta isnt covering certain costs, it should explain why.
If Mr B doesnt consider Acasta is clear about those points when communicating the claim 
decisions, or if hes unhappy with what Acasta decides, he can raise a further complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint in part. 
My final decision is Acasta European Insurance Company Limited should:
- pay Mr B £500 compensation, in total (if £200 has already been paid, a further £300 
would be due).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman