DRN-3423698
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Santander UK Plc hasnt provided them with information they 
requested about their mortgage. Theyd like Santander to respond in full to all the questions 
set out in a letter provided to us.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out a mortgage with Santander in 2002. They made a complaint in 
December 2020 that Santander had failed to provide:
A screen dump of their mortgage account since it was executed in 2002.
An explanation for saying it holds customer information for six years.
An explanation of why the enduring power of attorney they say exists on their mortgage 
is needed, with a fully exhaustive list of all the circumstances for which it could be used, 
and for which it has been used. They asked Santander to clarify its statement that it had 
no record of a power of attorney on the account.
Confirmation that it has their original wet signed mortgage deed. They say Santander 
conflated this with a request for a land registry title information document. They later 
asked if it received the mortgage deed when the mortgage was executed.
An explanation of the meaning and relevance of three ANMF transaction codes (AIT, 
CST and CSF).
Copies of the original and all subsequent terms and conditions for their account.
Mr and Mrs L are also unhappy with the way Santander dealt with their complaint. They ask 
for compensation for the time theyve spent on this matter. They believe Santander is trying 
to coerce them into dealing with it by phone rather than in writing, and it hasnt met the 
principles in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook.
Santander said Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about the power of attorney in the mortgage terms 
and conditions is outside this services jurisdiction. This is because the provision was in 
place since (at least) 2007, and Mr and Mrs L were aware of it from 2014 (at the latest), and 
the provision itself sets out circumstances in which the power can be used. Mr L confirmed 
to our investigator that theyre only asking if Santander has used this power and agreed this 
service would only look into this part of the complaint about the power of attorney.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties, saying there were times when Santander could 
have responded better to Mr and Mrs L. I said Santander should pay £200 compensation to 
Mr and Mrs L, which it agreed to do.
Mr L asked for confirmation Santander hadnt used its power of attorney on their mortgage. 
He rejected any suggestion they should ask for information via a subject access request, 
saying it was reasonable for them to expect Santander to comply with a written request. He 
said Santander should send a cheque for £200 to their address. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. However, we do of course have to follow 
the rules on how we operate, which are set by the Financial Conduct Authority and come 
from the statute which created our service. One of these rules is that we cant look into a 
complaint until the business  Santander  has had an opportunity to respond to the 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs L have raised new issues while the complaint has been with us, which I cant 
look into here. I will be looking into the complaints that Mr and Mrs L raised with Santander 
on 15 December 2020, and which they then brought to us, and their complaint raised in a 
letter dated 11 May 2021 about not receiving a response to their letter of 16 February 2021.
While I can assure Mr and Mrs L Ive read everything theyve sent, in keeping with our 
informal approach I wont comment on every point made. My role is to decide whether 
Santander made an error or treated Mr and Mrs L unfairly and, if so, what it should do to put 
matters right. I should also say that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Ive considered Mr Ls comments following my provisional decision. Having done so, I think 
Ive addressed his comments in my findings below (which are substantially as set out in my 
provisional decision).
The request for a screen dump
Mr and Mrs L say their request for a screen dump was reasonable and easily understood. 
They say that Santander was being deceitful in not providing this. I think its more likely that 
Santander simply didnt understand what information Mr and Mrs L were asking for.
Mr and Mrs L told us their understanding of a screen dump is that the business will print out 
and send to them all information it holds about them. Mr and Mrs L said Santander did this in 
2014 after they made a subject access request.
I think its clear from Santanders responses to Mr and Mrs Ls request for a screen dump 
that it didnt understand what they were asking for. It said it had no process for a screen 
dump.
Santander said it can search for relevant documents customers may need. It says Mr and 
Mrs L can make a data subject access request (DSAR) if they want to know what information 
Santander holds about them. Santander has confirmed that it can provide documents from 
2002 onwards in response to a DSAR.
If Mr and Mrs Ls request is for a specific document related to their account they can contact 
Santander about this. Our investigator provided information about how to make a DSAR 
request. This information is also available on Santanders website. Mr and Mrs L can find 
further information on the ICO website. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Santander to take any further steps in relation to Mr and Mrs Ls request for a screen dump.The power of attorney
Santander misunderstood Mr and Mrs Ls question about the enduring power of attorney 
they said applied to their account. It told them there was no record of a power of attorney 
registered on their account. It also gave them information about how to set one up. Mr and 
Mrs L say they were referring to a provision in the terms and conditions of the account which 
applied in 2007.
I dont think Santander was trying to confuse or deceive Mr and Mrs L when it responded to 
their question about the power of attorney. It misunderstood what they were asking for and 
provided the information it thought they wanted. 
Santander has confirmed that the power of attorney in the terms and conditions has never 
been used in relation to Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage. I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
require Santander to take any further steps in relation to Mr and Mrs Ls question about the 
power of attorney.
Mortgage deed
Santander told Mr and Mrs L it doesnt hold the original wet signed mortgage deed. It says 
its likely with Mr and Mrs Ls solicitor. I think thats a fair response to their question. 
Santander went on to provide the title number for Mr and Mrs Ls property and said it had 
sent the title deeds to them in 2018. I dont think it was unfair for Santander to provide this 
additional information. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Santander to take any 
further steps in relation to Mr and Mrs Ls question about the mortgage deed.
Explaining transaction codes
Mr and Mrs L asked Santander to explain the meaning of three transaction codes. Mr L 
refers to the requirement for Santander to pay due regard to their interests and communicate 
information in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. But this is, for instance, to allow 
customers to make decisions about their accounts, and monitor whats happened to their 
accounts. I dont agree that this means Santander has to provide all the information Mr and 
Mrs L might ask for.
Im satisfied that the reason Santander didnt explain all of these codes was, as it said, 
because they are internal system codes which had no impact on Mr and Mrs L. Santander 
has told us that its happy to provide a definition of the codes (which Mr L says he already 
has), but further information is commercially sensitive. 
Mr L says the codes cant be commercially sensitive as they received a comprehensive and 
detailed 28 page document on the specific subject of ANMF transaction codes in the 
response to their subject access request in 2014. If Mr L has already received the 
information he wants about these codes, then Im not sure why hed need to ask for this 
again. If what Mr L is asking for is further or more detailed information about the codes, then 
I dont think he can rely on an argument that Santander has already provided the 
information. In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Santander 
to provide this information to Mr and Mrs L.
Copies of mortgage terms and conditions
Mr and Mrs L responded to Santanders final response letter in February 2021. They asked 
for copies of the original and all subsequent terms and conditions for their account. I think 
Santander should have responded to this request. Santander provided copies of terms and 
conditions issued since 2002 which our investigator forwarded to Mr and Mrs L.
Did Santander meet FCA principles?
Its unfortunate there was so much confusion about what Mr and Mrs L were requesting. I 
dont think this was deliberate on Santanders part. I think it responded to Mr and Mrs L in good faith. I dont think it breached the FCA principles so as to make it fair and reasonable to 
require it to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs L or take further action.
Complaint handling
As complaint handling isnt itself a regulated activity, I cant look into it unless it impacts on 
resolving the underlying complaint. This could have been the case here, in the sense that 
Santander might have gained a better understand of what Mr and Mrs L were asking for if it 
had dealt with their complaint differently.
Santander made one unsuccessful attempt to call Mr and Mrs L before sending its final 
response letter. But, when deciding if it should have made more effort to contact Mr and 
Mrs L by phone, I need to take into account that Mr and Mrs L asked for a response in 
writing. They told us they prefer this  in fact, they said they feel Santander is trying to 
coerce them to use the phone rather than correspond in writing. Santanders written 
response provided a number for Mr and Mrs L to call if they felt it hadnt covered all their 
concerns. If Mr and Mrs L had felt they could better explain what they were asking for by 
phone they could have called Santander. Mr and Mrs L chose to respond in writing.
Santander didnt respond to Mr and Mrs Ls further letter of complaint in May 2021. Most 
likely this was because the complaint related to the same subject matter as the complaint 
that was by that time with this service.
I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ls complaint would have been resolved sooner if Santander 
had called them, or if it had responded to their February 2021 letter. Mr and Mrs L continue 
to feel strongly that Santander acted unfairly when it didnt provide the information they feel 
theyre entitled to.
Mr L says hes has spent considerable time pursuing this complaint. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require Santander to pay for his time. I think Santander responded to Mr and 
Mrs Ls requests in good faith, providing the information it believed was being requested. 
That said, I agree with our investigator that there were some parts of Mr and Mrs Ls 
requests that Santander could have dealt with better. It could have provided the definition of 
the transaction codes, which isnt commercially sensitive (albeit Mr L says he already has 
this). It could have said it hadnt used its power of attorney. As I said above, I think 
Santander should have responded to Mr and Mrs Ls request for copies of the terms and 
conditions in February 2021.
Putting things right
Santander agreed to pay £200 for the inconvenience caused by not responding differently to 
Mr and Mrs Ms requests. In the circumstances, I think this is fair and reasonable 
compensation for any inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander to pay £200 to Mr and Mrs L.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman