DRN-1633695
The complaint and background
Mrs G is unhappy with how a debt collector, BW Legal Services Limited, treated her when it 
believed shed failed to make payments to it on the agreed date.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will only summarise them 
again here.
At this point in the case its not in dispute that a system error meant BW Legal changed 
Mrs Gs payment date. Because of this it believed shed fallen behind on her payments when 
she had maintained her standing order for the agreed date. It then contacted her on a 
number of occasions to say she was in arrears. Mrs G says she repeatedly emailed and 
called to discuss her account but was ignored or treated poorly. This caused Mrs G a 
number of difficulties in her personal life and badly impacted her mental health.
Since the complaint came to our service BW Legal has agreed to arrange with Mrs Gs 
creditor for this debt to be cleared. This would bring an end to Mrs Gs relationship with BW 
Legal.
Mrs G doesnt agree this is fair. She considers she should receive a greater amount of 
compensation than the value of her debt. And if this isnt awarded, that she should receive 
the money directly so that she can clear the debt in her own time. So the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the correspondence thats available between Mrs G and BW Legal. And Ive 
considered her evidence in detail, as I understand this situation had a great impact on her.
Im in agreement that BW Legals offer prior to the complaint coming to our service wasnt 
sufficient. It took several months and for the case to come to our service before BW Legal 
established what had caused Mrs Gs account to wrongly appear as if it were in arrears. And 
during this time its communication with her was below the standard I would expect. I say this 
because it shouldve been apparent to BW Legal the distress its correspondence was 
causing Mrs G. And that she was trying to work with it to clear her debt in the way that had 
been agreed.
From the correspondence and call notes Ive seen, it doesnt appear that BW Legal was fully 
taking into account Mrs Gs situation  or really listening to her when she set out that she 
had continued to make payments at the same, agreed time.
Ive thought about the level of compensation thats appropriate. As both parties are aware, 
Ive been in discussions with them in order to try and mediate a settlement. However one 
couldnt be agreed, so now I have to decide the issue. And I think BW Legal settling her debt 
is a fair resolution in this case, Ill explain why below.
In order to determine what compensation is appropriate, Ive considered Mrs Gs personal 
situation, what BW Legal was aware of, and also the value of the debt owed. And of course 
what I consider is a fair resolution to both parties in this case. Compensation doesnt have to 
be a monetary award to the consumer. And I think in this case, considering Mrs Gs debt 
currently sits at £234.83, having this cleared both provides her with an award for whats 
happened and prevents her having to go through, or risk going through, further distress.
I understand Mrs G feels that if she doesnt receive direct monetary compensation, this has 
all been for nothing. However I cant agree.
Throughout her complaint to us Mrs Gs talked about the impact BW Legals administration 
of her account has had, including a phone call quite recently. And on more than one 
occasion shes said to us that the sooner she can clear this debt the better her life will be. 
Due to the amount owed and current token repayments, Mrs G could have nearly 20 further 
years repaying this debt. This is despite the fact the relationship has clearly broken down 
and any future conversations between Mrs G and BW Legal are likely to cause her additional 
distress.
In reaching my decision I have factored in the likely future dealings with BW Legal Mrs G will 
have and the very severe impact shes explained these conversations had on her mental 
health. While I accept BW Legal couldve handled Mrs Gs account better, it does also seem 
that the level of distress it caused her is beyond what I could consider BW Legal could have 
reasonably foreseen in the situation, considering the administration error that first occurred.
Ive also factored in that Mrs Gs current arrangement with BW Legal to pay it £1 a month is 
based on her income and expenditure. So if she were to receive a lump sum payment, BW 
Legal, on behalf of its client, could contact her again to discuss what she can afford. Mrs G 
has told us how upsetting she finds these conversations and the forms that follow. So I dont 
consider a direct payment is the fairest outcome in this case, or that it would really put things 
right in this relationship.
Mrs G has also explained that fairly recently she received a reduced settlement offer via BW 
Legal for her debt. So she asked that the reduced settlement amount be honoured and 
compensation of only this value be paid towards the debt, still clearing it  with the remaining 
compensation paid directly to her. But BW Legal is responsible for recovering this debt on 
behalf of its client, so while this reduced settlement came to her via BW Legal, it was on the 
instruction of the current debt owner. So this isnt something BW Legal has control over or 
the power to decide, meaning I cant ask it to do this. 
Putting things right
My understanding is that following Mrs Gs July 2020 payment, the current outstanding 
balance of the debt is £234.83.
BW Legal Services Limited should arrange to clear this debt with the current debt owner. 
This will enable the account to close and BW Legals role in recovering this debt to end.
My final decision
My decision is that the most recent settlement offered to Mrs G for her complaint against BW 
Legal Services Limited is fair.
BW Legal Services Limited should arrange for Mrs Gs outstanding balance for this debt to 
be cleared within 28 days of receiving notice of Mrs Gs acceptance of this decision.Mrs G should note that if she accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties and 
she probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, she rejects the decision, although her legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between her and BW Legal Services Limited as to whether the 
above redress is available.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2020.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman