DRN-3074797
The complaint
Mr T complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with a 
loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided a loan to Mr T as follows: 
Date 
takenAmount Loan 
termMonthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
payableAPR Loan 
status
14/02/20 £250.00 18 
months£57.14 £1,028.52 1,013.2% Outstanding
Mr T told us that when Loans 2 Go provided the loan he wasnt in a position to make a 
sensible decision in terms of agreeing to the loan as he was experiencing personal 
problems. Mr T has also stated that the terms of the loan were unfair, as the interest rate 
was excessive, meaning that he was paying an unreasonable amount of interest over the full 
repayment term.
In its final response letter Loans 2 Go didnt uphold the complaint and so Mr T brought his 
complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Loans 2 Go should have 
provided Mr T with the loan as its checks showed that he was already in financial difficulty 
and his credit spending represented a significant proportion of his monthly income and 
wasnt sustainably affordable for him. 
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It mainly said that it had worked 
out that Mr T had disposable income of around £200 each month which showed the loan 
was affordable. And Loans 2 Go said that whilst it noted our adjudicators concerns relating 
to information shown on Mr Ts credit file, apart from his mortgage arrears it didnt consider 
the information was adverse and it couldnt see any pattern of reliance on short-term loans. 
The complaint came to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
There are some key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr T would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did Loans 2 Go 
make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
I have reviewed the information Loans 2 Go gathered when it agreed to provide this loan. It 
did some background checks and verified that Mr Ts minimum income was approximately 
£1,872 monthly. After looking at the credit report information it gathered, Loans 2 Go 
increased the overall amount Mr T had said he was spending each month and allowed for a 
total monthly expenditure figure of around £1,615. 
When assessing affordability, Loans 2 Go added a buffer of 10% of Mr Ts verified 
expenditure in order to allow for fluctuations in his monthly income or outgoings. Relying on 
this information, Loans 2 Go said that the £57.14 contractual loan repayment should have been affordable as it worked out he had monthly disposable income of £200. Loans 2 Go 
didnt think that anything it saw on its credit checks suggested otherwise. 
But, like our adjudicator, I think its fair to say that the credit checks Loans 2 Go did showed 
clear signs that Mr T might already be financially over-stretched and in serious financial 
difficulty. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
But I think Loans 2 Go should have been concerned to see that Mr T was three payments in 
arrears on his mortgage account  and hed been running the account with those arrears for 
the last eleven months and had payment problems on the account for well over a year. He 
had used practically all the available credit offered on his credit cards and the current 
outstanding balance on one of his cards was more than £200 over the £1,200 credit limit. He 
also had other finance agreements outstanding including a short-term loan taken out just the 
month before.
Given the information Loans 2 Go could see about Mr Ts existing use of credit and the 
money problems he was already facing, I think it shouldve realised that Mr T was in serious 
financial difficulty, essentially borrowing from one lender to repay other borrowing that he 
couldnt afford  and that it looked like his loan application to Loans 2 Go was a continuation 
of that same borrowing pattern.  
Also, bearing in mind that the loan purpose wasnt stated, I dont think Loans 2 Go wouldve 
had any reason to think that this loan wouldnt simply add to Mr Ts overall indebtedness and 
worsen his existing financial difficulty. So I think Loans 2 Go shouldnt have provided the 
loan for this reason.    
And as well as this, by my reckoning, when Mr T applied for this loan he had already signed 
up to pay more than £1,000 monthly to existing creditors. Like our adjudicator, I think that the 
amount Mr T was already spending on his existing credit commitments was such a 
significant proportion of his take home pay (well over half his net disposable income) it was a 
clear indication that Mr T was, in reality, already experiencing financial difficulty. 
I think Loans 2 Go ought reasonably to have been aware that taking further, costly lending 
was unlikely to help Mr T. 
And I think thats borne out by the fact that he ran into payment problems on the loan almost 
straightaway.
Thinking about all of this information, I dont think Loans 2 Go could reasonably have 
satisfied itself that providing this loan to Mr T wouldnt put him in a worse position by 
increasing his overall debts. And it shouldve realised that maintaining this level of debt 
wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr T. 
So, I am planning on upholding Mr Ts complaint that he should not have been given the 
loan.
As far as I can see, Mr T hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about the high cost of the loan and the amount of interest payable. 
So I dont think I need to say more about this part of his complaint other than to mention that 
I did also think about this and independently I reached the same conclusion as our adjudicator. Taking everything into account, I think Mr T was aware he was taking a high 
cost loan on terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. 
This means that I cant fairly say that Loans 2 Go should have known that Mr T wasnt really 
in a position to agree these terms or that the high cost of this credit is a reason for me to 
award any additional redress.  
But, taking everything into account, I dont think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to provide 
the loan to Mr T. 
And as Mr T has been further indebted with an expensive loan that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Loans 2 Go did wrong. 
So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right.
I would encourage Mr T to provide details of his financial situation to Loans 2 Go if he still 
needs time to pay any outstanding balance on the loan. 
And if Mr T would like help to manage his finances, or any other help, theres more 
information about how to get free debt advice and other support on our website  or we can 
provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr T to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this 
Services approach, Mr T shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed. 
If Loans 2 Go has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. 
Otherwise, Loans 2 Go should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr T received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Mr T made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr T having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr T keeping in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically if he needs further time to pay.
remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ts credit file regarding this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mr T. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman