DRN-3116547
The complaint
Mr M complains American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) didnt carry out 
sufficient checks before they issued him with a charge card.
What happened
Mr M says whilst a student he applied for what he believed was a credit card which turned 
out to be a charge card requiring repayment within 30 days. Mr M says he had no income at 
the time he applied for the platinum charge card (PCC) and Amex never requested any proof 
of income and shouldnt have provided him with the level of credit they did. Mr M wants 
Amex to put him back into a position he was before the spending limit on his charge card 
was increased, and any adverse credit information to be removed from his credit file.  
Amex says they carried out their usual checks based on previous usage of the charge card 
and had no reason to believe Mr M wouldnt be able to meet the monthly expenditure on the 
card. Amex says Mr M had previously repaid the due balance on the charge card every 
month leading up to its increase and was therefore aware the charge card needed to be 
cleared each month. Amex says it is the responsibility of Mr M to understand the terms and 
conditions of the card he applied for and they have done nothing wrong.
Mr M wasnt happy with Amexs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information and partly upheld the complaint. 
While she felt Mr M should have been aware he had a charge card, not a credit card from his 
previous account activity, she didnt feel Amex had carried out sufficient checks before 
increasing the spending limit availability on the charge card. The investigator felt that Mr Ms 
credit file should correctly reflect an accurate payment history. The investigator says Amex 
should refund any interest or charges charged to the charge card account. 
Amex didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said : 
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr M to have used his Amex charge card 
believing he would have time to repay any outstanding borrowing, only to learn the balance 
needed to be cleared each month in full. When looking at this complaint I will consider if 
Amex undertook sufficient checks before issuing the charge card and subsequently 
increased Mr Ms spending limit on that card.
Mr M says when he took out the Amex PCC in May 2018, he had just turned 18 and didnt 
realise at the time the PCC had to be cleared each month in full. Mr M says he had limited 
income as a student and Amex agreed to increase his spending limit to £4,000 without 
conducting any checks at the time and if they had, would have established he couldnt afford 
this level of credit. 
Amex maintain they carried out external credit checks, reviewed the previous card account 
activity and had no reason to believe Mr M wouldnt continue to operate the PCC as before. 
Amex says Mr M had cleared his balance in the previous months and it was clear in the 
terms and conditions of the PCC and online before applying, that the PCC needed to be 
cleared each month, and Mr M would have been aware of that. 
Its fair to say that looking at the operation of the PCC before April 2019, when Mr M failed to 
make the monthly payment, he had cleared the balance each month so with this in mind and 
the fact it was his responsibility to check the terms and conditions of his PCC, I cant say Mr 
M wouldnt have been aware how the PCC should operate. 
Where I do have an issue is how Mr M managed to secure the PCC in the first place and 
why Amex allowed the spending limit to be increased. I say this because Mr M at the time of 
application was 18 years and 1 month old, so its reasonable to assume he wouldnt have 
accumulated much of a credit track record. 
The application in May 2018, provided by Amex, shows at the time Mr M was a student with 
a  declared income of £10,000. I havent seen any evidence to show Amex carried out any 
further checks to assess affordability then, bearing in mind given Mr M s date of birth he 
would have only either just left school in May 2018 or was finishing his education. So, with 
that in mind, Im not convinced issuing a PCC with potentially no spending limit, was 
appropriate here without asking for more background on Mr Ms financial position. While 
Amex have told this service, it may have been that Mr M had other savings at his disposal, I 
cant see any evidence that this was raised with him or any other questions asked about his 
finances, and its reasonable to say if that had been done, there may have been a different 
outcome here. 
Amex increased the spending limit in March 2019, this is substantiated by way of an internal  
telephone call between two of Amexs staff that I have listened to, and from what I can see 
this was initiated by Mr M.  Amex says the increase was approved based on previous 
account operation and reference to Mr Ms credit file and saw no reason to think it shouldnt 
be approved. I understand what Amex are saying but, in this case, we have a young student 
on limited income and was allowed to use the PCC without, as far as I can see being subject 
to any restrictions. Here, while Mr M had previously used the PCC and cleared this each 
month, Im not convinced that alone was sufficient for Amex to allow a level of credit, which 
in this case was in excess of £5,000 in one month, representing half of Mr M s declared 
annual income. 
I cant see that providing this level of credit each month, bearing in mind it must be repaid in 
full, should be subject to any less scrutiny or checks I would expect of a lender when 
providing say a credit card or loan facility, in fact it could be considered a higher risk, given 
its repayable in full the following month. So, while I am satisfied Mr M was made reasonably 
aware how the PCC operated and his previous usage of that card seems to indicate that too, 
I dont feel Amex have carried out sufficient and appropriate checks before the card was 
made available to Mr M. 
That said, Mr M has made full use of the PCC and benefited from that and the other benefits 
the PCC afforded him, so its reasonable that he remains responsible for the outstanding 
balance he owes. But here, we have a student at the start of his credit history and given Im 
not satisfied the card was appropriate for Mr M in his circumstances, its only fair to ask 
Amex to remove any adverse credit information on his credit file, given the impact this may have on him over the coming years. Similar to the investigator, I propose the refund of any 
interest or charges that have been applied to the PCC account, but in this instance from April 
2019, the date Mr M failed to make the full repayment of the outstanding debt owed. 
It is important Mr M has an appropriate repayment plan in place reflecting his current 
financial situation, subject to regular reviews. With this in mind I propose Amex take back the 
debt from the debt collection agency, so this can be properly managed and monitored going 
forward.  
While both parties may be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome 
here. 
Both Mr M and Amex have responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr M and Amex until 8 November 2021 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. Amex have accepted my provisional decision, but Mr M has raised some concerns 
that need addressing here. 
Mr M says he is concerned that Amex may return his borrowing back to another debt 
collection agency, in the event he misses a payment given his limited income. I understand 
the point Mr M makes here, but my provisional decision on this was to ensure the debt was 
returned to Amex so a mutually acceptable payment plan is put in place. As I said in my 
provisional decision, Mr M remains responsible for the debt on the basis he has benefited 
from using the Amex PCC, so he must ensure any mutually agreed arrangement is adhered 
to. Having said that, if Mr M felt he was struggling to meet what was agreed at any time in 
the future, then I would suggest he discusses this with Amex before he defaults on any 
agreed payment plan. 
Mr M reiterated the point he was at school and didnt understand the terms of the card and 
that it needed to be paid in full each month. I would say, this point was covered in my 
provisional decision when I said, it remained Mr Ms responsibility to check the terms and 
conditions of the Amex PCC he had applied for.
Mr M has also raised an issue concerning the time frame to clear his credit file as he wants 
this to be actioned as soon as possible. I can see this is important to Mr M and I would 
expect Amex to organise the amendments to his credit file on receipt of my final decision.
With this in mind, I cant say these comments change my original provisional decision and 
see no need to change or add to this, and so my final decision remains the same.
Putting things right
I instruct American Express Services Europe Limited, refund any interest and charges made 
to Mr Ms PCC account from April 2019 to date. In addition, they should remove any adverse 
credit information they have registered against Mr Ms credit file. I also propose American 
Express Services Europe Limited take back Mr Ms debt from the debt collection agency and 
set up an appropriate payment plan to suit both parties.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I instruct American Express Services Europe Limited, refund any interest and charges made 
to Mr Ms PCC account from April 2019 to date. In addition, they should remove any adverse 
credit information they have registered against Mr Ms credit file. I also propose American 
Express Services Europe Limited take back Mr Ms debt from the debt collection agency and 
set up an appropriate payment plan to suit both parties.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman