DRN-3051568
The complaint
C complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc treated it unfairly by declining its application for a 
Bounce Back Loan.
The complaint is brought by Cs director, Mr S. 
What happened
C held an account with Barclays. In January 2021, C applied for a loan under the Bounce 
Back Loan Scheme with the bank. Shortly after, Barclays declined Cs application on the 
basis it wasnt eligible under the Scheme. Mr S repeatedly contacted the bank asking that 
they explain their decision, but they wouldnt do so. Mr S was unhappy, so he made a 
complaint. 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said theyd reviewed the decline decision 
and they wouldnt be changing it as C didnt meet the lending criteria. Barclays also said they 
werent able to provide further information about the reason for their decision. Mr S thought 
this was unfair and asked this service to look into Cs complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld as she didnt think Barclays 
had declined Cs application unfairly. The investigator said the Scheme rules said a lender 
would carry out certain checks before deciding to offer a loan, and C hadnt satisfied the 
banks checks. She acknowledged Mr S wanted more information about the reason the loan 
had been declined  but Barclays werent required to provide anything more than it had. The 
investigator suggested Mr S may wish to review both his and Cs credit information. 
Barclays accepted the investigators view but Mr S didnt. Mr S said he hadnt been given a 
tangible reason for the declined application and had checked the credit files but there wasnt 
anything that should have affected the loan application. He also said other staff in the bank 
didnt understand why Cs application had been rejected. So he asked for an ombudsman to 
look into Cs complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, applications were subject to certain 
checks including customer fraud, Anti-Money Laundering and Know Your Customer checks. 
Barclays declined Cs application because it failed those checks. 
Barclays have provided us with the information on which its decision was based. And having 
reviewed this, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the bank to decline the application in 
line with the Scheme rules. I recognise Mr S is unhappy he hasnt been provided with any 
detail about the reason for the decision, But the bank didnt need to disclose any more detail 
than it did.  
I acknowledge Mr S has said hes checked both his and Cs credit file and cant see anything 
that would affect Cs application. However, the credit check isnt the only thing the bank took 
into consideration when making its decision. The bank reviewed all the information it held for 
C and Mr S so it could be satisfied it met its checking obligations.   
That being said, Barclays have provided me with more information about the reason Cs 
application was declined. And based on the evidence available, Im satisfied the bank acted 
fairly in the way they considered the application based on the information provided by Mr S 
both verbally and in writing. 
I recognise that Mr S feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. But 
based on everything Ive seen, I think Barclays have acted reasonably in declining Cs 
application, so, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman