DRN-3940338
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc closed his account without notice or reason given. 
Hed like an explanation of why this happened.
What happened
Mr G held accounts with Santander. In March 2021 they wrote to him to say they could no 
longer provide banking facilities, so would be closing his accounts immediately. They sent a 
cheque for the funds held on the account. Mr G raised a complaint, but Santander didnt 
think theyd done anything wrong. They said that the terms of his accounts, and their 
company policy, allowed them to withdraw banking facilities at any time without providing a 
specific reason.
Unsatisfied with this answer Mr G referred his complaint to our service, saying hed only 
found out about the closure when his card didnt work, and that direct debits hadnt been 
paid. One of our investigators looked into what happened but didnt think Santander needed 
to do anything further. They said Santander had carried out a review of Mr Gs accounts in 
line with their legal and regulatory obligations. They said the terms of the account allowed 
the bank to close the account immediately under certain circumstances, and they were 
satisfied the closure was in line with these terms. They didnt ask Santander to do anything 
further.
Mr G disagreed, saying he had a right to know why his accounts were closed. But the 
investigator didnt change their mind. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Gs complaint is that he would like to know the reason his accounts were 
closed. But I find its important to also consider the way the accounts were closed, and 
Santanders obligations to him. 
Its right to say banks have certain legal and regulatory requirements to meet when providing 
accounts to their customers. This includes ongoing monitoring of both new and existing 
accounts. Banks can also close accounts for any reasonable reason and arent under 
obligation to explain their reasons for doing so, so long as they comply with the terms of the 
account.
The regulations around payment accounts, and common industry practice, is that two 
months notice is given before an account is closed. But there are some circumstances 
where banks can close accounts immediately, and Santander outline these in their terms.
Ive considered these terms carefully, in relation to the circumstances of Mr Gs complaint. 
On balance Im persuaded it was reasonable for Santander to close the account in the 
manner they did.
As mentioned, Santander are not obliged to tell Mr G their specific reasons for closing his 
account. Its very clear to me he would like to know more, and I think thats understandable 
from his perspective. It will have come as a great shock to him to find his account had been 
closed suddenly. But Santander have declined to explain their reasons, and I dont see that 
theyve behaved unreasonably in doing so.
I can see Santander sent Mr G the balance in a reasonable time frame. Hes confirmed to us 
that he had accounts elsewhere as well, so he wasnt left completely without banking 
facilities. 
Mr G has mentioned unpaid direct debits, but from what I can see theres was only one 
monthly outgoing payment, which was paid four days before. Ive no doubt this was 
inconvenient to rearrange, I consider there to have been enough time for Mr G to do so. In 
any case, this inconvenience flows from the reasonable actions of Santander, so I wouldnt 
expect them to compensate him for this.
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr G, but I dont see that Santander have behaved 
unfairly or unreasonably here. As such Im not asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman