DRN-4065486
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the way Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) dealt with 
claims hed made under section 56 (s56) and section 75 (s75) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the CCA).
Mr W has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, Ill refer to 
Mr W throughout. 
What happened
Mr W tells us he purchased a solar panel system (the system) in March 2019 from a 
supplier Ill call S using a fixed sum loan agreement from Omni. The system cost £8,595 
and Mr W paid a £100 deposit. It was installed in April 2019. The total amount payable under 
the agreement was £13,278.12 and it was due to be paid back with 120 instalments of 
around £110. 
In April 2022 Mr W put in a claim with Omni. He said (prior to the installation) hed been cold 
called by S, and he allowed a salesperson to visit his home to explain the system. Mr W said 
the salesperson made several misrepresentations, mainly that the system would be self-
funding. Mr W says he was told that the electricity the system generated would lead to him 
being paid a Feed in Tariff (FIT) payment under a government backed scheme. Mr W says S 
told him hed make significant savings on his electricity bills, and that those savings would 
cover the fixed sum loan repayments. 
Mr W says he only agreed to purchase the system based on the verbal representations from 
S. Mr W says he wasnt given time to consider the paperwork or weigh up his options. Mr W 
says he only received an average annual reduction to his electricity bill of around £125. He 
says the system isnt self-funding. Mr W says to mitigate his loss he took out another loan to 
pay off the one with Omni. 
In summary, Mr W says S made several breaches of the Renewable Energy Consumer 
Code (RECC). He says he was given false and misleading information and that S didnt do 
everything it was supposed to prior to the system being installed. 
Mr W says as a result of the misrepresentations he should be able to rescind the contract 
and claim damages. He says Omni is responsible for antecedent negotiations under s56 of 
the CCA. And that its jointly liable for losses suffered as a result of misrepresentation under 
s75 of the CCA. 
Omni responded to the claim and said it wasnt present at the point of sale so it couldnt 
comment on what was discussed. It said the loan agreement Mr W signed was clear in 
setting out all the costs. Omni pointed towards a satisfaction note Mr W signed setting out he 
knew the fixed sum loan agreement was separate to any financial incentives he may receive. 
Omni said Mr Ws decision to purchase the system shouldnt have been based on any 
potential future benefits of the system. 
Omni also pointed out Mr W was given 14 days between signing the agreement and the 
installation being carried out, so he had enough time to review it. And if he felt pressured, he 
had time to withdraw from the agreement. 
Omni said S is now in administration but that theres no evidence to demonstrate it didnt 
adhere to the relevant standards. Ultimately Omni didnt uphold the claim. Mr W decided to 
raise a complaint about the way Omni handled the claim. Omnis response to the complaint 
was in line with its response to the claim. Mr W asked our service to consider it. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. She reviewed the 
documentation supplied at the point of sale by S. She highlighted a document setting out the 
estimated year one returns which sets out basic information about the system. It says:
The estimated annual generation is 2,440 kWh
The predicted year 1 FIT benefit is N/A
The predicted export income is shown as N/A
The predicted electricity savings is £154.94
The estimated year 1 total benefit is £154.94
Our investigator said the FIT benefit was set as N/A likely because the FIT scheme closed to 
new applicants on 1 April 2019. Given Mr W signed the agreement on 28 March 2019 she 
thought it likely Ss paperwork hadnt been updated by that point. But she didnt think Mr W 
would have been led to believe hed receive FIT benefits because no figure was included on 
the document. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr W could reasonably have been led to believe the system was 
self-funding because the estimated year 1 total benefit of around £155 clearly wouldnt have 
covered the monthly repayments of around £110. Therefore, she didnt think there was 
sufficient evidence Mr W had been misled by S. 
Mr W didnt agree with the assessment. He said he had it confirmed the system had been 
registered for the FIT scheme. He referred to a previous complaint raised that S hadnt given 
him a Microgeneration Certification Scheme (MCS) certificate to enable him to register for 
the FIT scheme. He says he believed the system was intended to be registered for the 
scheme and it was due to inaction by S that he encountered difficulties. Mr W says hes 
never received FIT payments. He says the documentation doesnt change the clear and 
unambiguous statements made by S that the system would be self-funding. He said its not 
reasonable to have expected him to calculate things himself given the representations made 
by S. 
Our investigator asked if Mr W had any other systems eligible for FIT payments and whether 
the system was intended for domestic or business purposes. Mr W said he doesnt have any 
other systems eligible for FIT payments, but he did have a second set of solar panels fitted 
at a later date. He said the system under the agreement with Omni was on his domestic 
property, but the bills were in the name of his business, so its likely best categorised as 
business use. He highlighted that he wouldnt have registered for the FIT scheme had it not 
been for the representations made by S. 
Mr W gave no explanation as to how the system was registered for the FIT scheme. He said 
hed never approached anyone and was told S would deal with it. Mr W said he contacted 
his electricity supplier and it told him to complete an application. He was unable to do that 
because he didnt have an MCS certificate. This is what led him to request the certificate 
from S, and he says he thought it would deal with it, but it subsequently went out of 
business. Our investigator said she doesnt have evidence that the system Mr W has relating to the 
claim with Omni is registered for FIT. And that she doesnt have enough evidence Mr W was 
told hed receive FIT payments. She also noted the system wasnt installed before the 
deadline for registering for FIT benefits so she couldnt see how it would have been able to 
benefit. Moreover, even if Mr W was registered for FIT benefits, she didnt think hed receive 
sufficient benefit for his system to be self-funding within the loan term because of the low FIT 
rates in March 2019. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said hed supplied evidence his system is registered for the FIT 
scheme and while there was an issue with the registration its unfair to ignore the evidence. 
As things werent resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
More recently Mr W has supplied evidence he says shows faults with the solar panel system 
due to issues arising out of the installation of it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that whilst Ive summarised the events of the complaint, Ive reviewed 
everything on file. If I dont comment on something, its not because I havent thought about 
it. Im focussing on what I consider are the key issues. 
Mr W paid for the system using a fixed sum loan agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement, and our service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of 
agreements. 
I take into account the relevant law. So, in this case, s56 has the effect of deeming S to be 
the agent of Omni in any antecedent negotiations. Omni is responsible for the antecedent 
negotiations S carried out direct with Mr W. I think the negotiations were antecedent 
because they preceded the relevant conclusion of the agreement. 
Moreover, s75 makes Omni responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by S 
under certain conditions. I think the necessary relationships between the parties exists and 
the claim is within the relevant financial limits. 
Mr W says he was verbally misled the system would effectively pay for itself. Ive taken 
account of what Mr W says he was told. Ive also reviewed the documentation that Ive been 
supplied.  From what Ive seen, Mr W signed a validation sheet; a document outlining the 
estimated year one returns; a form setting out the order details and SAP calculations; an 
authority for Omni to pay S; and the fixed sum loan agreement. 
Im conscious the fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the 
interest charged; the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan 
repayments. I think this was set out clearly enough for Mr W to be able to understand what 
was required to be repaid towards the agreement.
Im also mindful the year one returns form Mr W signed sets out that the total estimated year 
one benefit was £154.94. I think this ought to have shown Mr W the savings wouldnt have 
covered the monthly repayments towards the loan agreement of £110. I think the form is 
clear. Im also conscious the generation and export tariff have been marked as not 
applicable on the form. I think the lack of any figures input here is because I dont think Mr W 
would have been eligible for FIT benefits because his system was installed after the scheme ended. I would have expected Mr W to have queried the shortfall if hed been told the system 
would be self-funding. And I would have expected him to query why the form was marked as 
not applicable for FIT benefits if he was told hed receive them. Weve not been supplied an 
explanation for this. I also consider Mr W was given sufficient time to review the forms and 
query anything he was unhappy about before S carried out the installation. 
I do however agree its curious theres some contradicting information on whether or not 
Mr Ws system was registered for the FIT benefit. But even taking that into account, I dont 
find theres enough evidence S misrepresented the FIT benefits Mr W would receive, which 
is what Omni is jointly liable for. Ive not been supplied evidence Mr W raised a complaint S 
hadnt registered him for FIT benefits. In any event, on balance, given the timing of the 
paperwork and the installation, I think it was too late for Mr W to receive the benefit of FIT. 
And taking into account the lack of FIT benefits being present on the estimated benefits form 
I dont find there are sufficient grounds to say S misled him about this. 
Its also curious that it looks like Mr Ws electricity bills did go down after the system was 
installed. I cant see they only went down by £125 as Mr W asserted. The savings dont 
correlate to the savings S said he was estimated to make either. From May to December 
2018 his electricity bill came to around £3,500 and for broadly the same period after the 
system was installed in 2019 and 2020 his bill was around £2,500. Its also not clear why he 
installed another solar panel system if he was unhappy with how the system from S 
performed. 
Overall, while Ive carefully considered what Mr W says he was told, given what Ive set out 
above, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence Mr W was misled the system would be 
self-funding. I dont find I have the grounds to say that Omnis decision to decline the claim 
was unfair.  
I note more recently Mr W has said there is a problem with the system. This relates to a 
breach of contract claim which Omni hasnt had the chance to consider yet. Im therefore 
unable to comment on that further in this decision. Mr W may wish to raise the claim with 
Omni in the first instance if hes not done so already. If hes unhappy with its response, it 
may be something our service is able to consider. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman