DRN-3948354
The complaint
Mrs I complains about Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money).
She says that she was the victim of a scam run by a company called O and that Clydesdale 
didnt do enough to protect her from losing her money to the scam.
What happened
In 2016, Mrs I was browsing through her emails when she saw an advert offering binary 
options from O. Mrs I visited Os website which she found professional and informative and 
did some research online where she saw that O was registered and there were no negative 
reviews.
Mrs I completed an enquiry from, and was shortly contacted by a representative of O. She 
made an initial investment of £250, followed by several more payments, while also receiving 
some payments back from O too. 
In January 2017, Mrs O decided that she did not want to make any further investments and 
wanted to withdraw the money she had left in the account with O. Mrs I received £56,139.37.
In total, Mrs I paid O £147,913.90, and received payments from O of £62,217.09.
Mrs I was disappointed  she thought that she had made more money than this and felt that 
she had been scammed. She says that had Clydesdale intervened and warned her, then she 
would not have lost the money.
Mrs I reported that she felt she has been scammed to Clydesdale on 11 August 2022 and 
made a complaint.
Clydesdale didnt uphold her complaint. 
Unhappy, Mrs I brought her complaint to this Service. Our Investigator looked into things but 
didnt uphold the complaint. They said that the first two payments Mrs I made were out of our 
Services jurisdiction due to how long ago they were made, which Mrs I accepted. They also 
said they felt that there was not enough evidence to persuade them Mrs I had been 
scammed, and it was more likely that she had made an investment which didnt turn out to 
be as profitable as she had hoped.
Mrs I asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint, so it has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for broadly the same reasons as 
our Investigator. I know that this will be disappointing for Mrs I, so Ill explain why. 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary options or forex trading scam
is in fact a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in
disappointing returns or losses. Some binary options platforms may have promoted these
productswhich are unregulatedusing sales methods that were arguably unethical and/or
misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or
omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of
proof for fraud, i.e., dishonestly making a false representation and/or failing to disclose
information with the intention of making a gain for himself or of causing loss to another or
exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains
or give investment advice  and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has confirmed that
a fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its predecessors
2012 consultation paper on investment fraud). 
So, the first question to resolve is whether O was a fraudster  and if Mrs I was the victim of 
a scam.
Having examined the information Ive been provided with  I am not sufficiently persuaded 
that Mrs I has been the victim of a scam for the following reasons.
Mrs I was able to instruct O to withdraw funds from the investment  and received a 
significant sum of money  albeit not as much as she had put in
Mr I paid into the investment over a period of five months, and received credits during 
this time  and after seven months was paid £56,139.37 when she no longer wanted 
to continue the relationship. I think it unlikely that a scammer would pay Mrs I this 
significant return at the end of the relationship rather than disappear with the money 
Mrs I had paid as quickly as possible
When Mrs I told O that she wanted to end her involvement with the investment, O 
paid Mrs I the money that remained in her account without delay, or pressure to 
continue to invest 
Mrs I made the payments directly to O, rather than Mrs I being asked to fund the 
investment via other means such as cryptocurrency
I have also paid particular attention to the financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) warning list 
and the International Organisation of Securities Commission (IOSCO) website to see if O 
has been listed as a scam by either organisation  but O isnt listed on either. If O was 
operating as a scam, then I think it is likely that it would be listed as such.
I understand that Mrs Is representatives feel that O was a scammer  and have provided 
information which was provided by Australia, Canada and New Zealand which provided 
warnings to their residents that O was not authorised in these countries but was still soliciting 
residents to invest.
I have considered what Mrs Is representatives have said here  but these warnings dont 
show for certain that O was operating as a scam  only that it was not licenced to provide 
services in these countries.
I also think that this information would have been very difficult for Clydesdale to discover 
when Mrs I was making the payments. At the time, Clydesdale was expected to comply with 
the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) 2009  which only gave limited guidance on how to research potential scams. And as I have explained above, O has never appeared on any 
warnings provided by the IOSCO or FCA.  
Miss Is representatives have also provided copies of reviews from other consumers who 
had invested with O and lost money as a result. But again, these reviews do not show that O 
was a scammer  but that individuals lost money. And as I have previously said, I think it is 
likely that O was offering high risk investments, so it is not unusual for individuals to have 
lost money and feel aggrieved about this. And again, I do not think that Clydesdale would 
have been able to discover this information when Mrs I was instructing it to make the 
payments.
To conclude. Im not persuaded that O was operating a scam given high the legal threshold 
or burden of proof for fraud. And taking everything into consideration, Im not persuaded that 
O was in fact a fraudulent company. 
As explained previously, Clydesdales duty is to guard against the risk of fraud and scams; it 
is not to give investment advice or protect consumers from bad bargains. Ultimately, I think 
its most likely Mrs I paid a legitimate company. To that end, I cannot safely conclude that 
the bank acted unfairly or unreasonably by not intervening to ask questions about the 
transactions before processing them.
 
I empathise with the fact Mrs I invested significant sums into a product that hasnt gone to 
plan. But this does appear to be a legitimate investment opportunity that has gone wrong, 
rather than an investment scam. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman