DRN-1515065
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Tesco Underwriting Limited recorded an incident he wasn't claiming for 
on his file and reported this to relevant registers, leading to an increase in his car insurance 
premiums.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr S got a quote for renewing his car insurance. Later that month, before 
he had renewed, Mr Ss car was hit by another vehicle. The driver of the other car admitted 
fault and said they wanted to sort this out without using insurance. Mr S called Tesco to let it 
know about the incident and get some advice, but he didn't want to log a claim. He then 
discovered he now had a higher renewal premium.
Mr S complained about this, as he said he hadn't registered a claim on his insurance. He 
also said due to his personal situation, he needed his car and the premiums were now 
unaffordable. As a goodwill gesture, Tesco agreed to honour the renewal premium he was 
quoted before the incident. But it said the incident would remain on his record for five years, 
so was likely to affect his premiums in future years. Mr S wanted any record of the incident 
removed as he hadn't claimed, but Tesco didn't agree to do this.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service, represented by a third party. He said he felt 
punished for reporting the non-fault incident, especially as he wasn't trying to claim on his 
policy. Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. He said that Mr S shouldve reported the 
incident to Tesco and it was entitled to record it. He said this was standard practice across 
the insurance industry and he didn't agree Tesco was treating Mr S unfairly. Mr S via his 
third party disagreed and asked for an ombudsman. They said Tesco was in breach of a 
number of rules, guidance and legislation. So the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss representative has argued that as neither party was claiming on their insurance, this 
incident was not relevant to Tesco or the insurance contract. However, the terms of the 
cover, which Mr S agreed to and form the contract between him and Tesco, say he must:
tell us within 7 days of becoming aware of any incident that may result in a claim under 
this policy, even if you do not intend claiming for your own car
So under his terms Mr S did need to let Tesco know. This is because the third party could 
have changed their mind about covering the costs personally. I appreciate Mr S doesn't 
agree and said they didn't do this. But the term says may result in a claim and so still does 
cover situations like the one Mr S was in. For example, if there was greater damage to his 
car than first apparent, the third party couldve then been unable to cover the cost personally 
and Mr S wouldve likely put in a non-fault claim. But this probably wouldve been more than seven days later, so Mr S shouldve notified Tesco when the incident happened, as he did, 
to ensure he was covered, if he needed to be.
So in line with the terms, Im satisfied Mr S needed to let Tesco know about the incident. 
And, as it had this information, it shouldve then recorded this on Mr Ss file and the relevant 
registers, as per what it set out it would do on his insurance schedule.
Mr Ss representative has said that by having this term, Tesco is in breach of the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and The Unfair Contract Terms and Consumer Notices Regulatory 
Guide (UNFCOG)  which sets out how the powers under the CRA will be applied for unfair 
terms and consumer notices. For a contract term to be deemed unfair under the CRA, it has 
to cause a significant imbalance in the parties' rights and obligations under the contract to 
the detriment of the consumer. As our investigator set out, this term is common place in car 
insurance and Im not in agreement with the representative that this term creates a 
significant imbalance.
The term is important during the course of the insurance, so that Tesco understands its 
potential liability. And so it can accurately report the risk of insuring Mr S, for when he 
renews/takes out other car insurance. Ive already explained above why I do think Tesco had 
potential liability in this case. While it didn't result in a claim, the third party may not have 
covered Mr S as agreed and he couldve claimed  and the third party then couldve 
contested this. Until an incident is fully resolved, Tesco is still potentially liable. 
In terms of Mr S and his risk, Tesco let him know on his insurance schedule that it would 
report incidents he has (incidents not claims) to the listed registers. And this is so, when he 
takes out new insurance, the insurers understand the risk theyre taking on. His risk is 
impacted by any incidents hes been involved in  regardless of whether he was at fault or 
even needed to make a claim. I understand that this is frustrating for Mr S, but that doesn't 
mean Tesco is acting unfairly or outside of how the car insurance industry works in general.
The term in question seeks to make sure Tesco is aware of its liability and can fairly and 
accurately report on Mr S. So on that basis, I dont agree it creates a significant imbalance 
under CRA in this case and so UNFCOG doesn't apply. I also dont agree that Tesco is 
acting outside of Mr Ss best interests in breach of ICOBS 2.5.1 by reporting the incident. 
These rules are not intended to prevent a business carrying out its proper function  and 
applying them in this way would do this. I consider it would in fact undermine the car 
insurance industry as a whole if insurers were only able to report on customer incidents 
where claims were made.
Mr Ss representative has asked for confirmation about whether or not Mr S could claim the 
premium increase back from the other party. However I have no power to comment on that, I 
am only looking into Tescos actions and I dont consider it has done anything wrong.
I also note that Tescos has said when Mr S initially looked at renewing this insurance, he 
was offered a premium of £367. However he contacted them about price matching a 
cheaper quote hed found elsewhere, which it agreed to. The renewal price with this incident 
was £382.23. I accept this is still an increase, but only of £15.23 over 12 months  rather 
than the greater amount thats been suggested. While Tesco did agree to a lower renewal 
rate to match another insurer  it appears the actual price was much higher and so the price 
difference with the incident is not that great an increase.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2020.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman