DRN-3661849
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are complaining about Personal Touch Financial Services Ltd (Personal 
Touch) because they say they received advice from one of its appointed representatives 
(AR)  Financial Services Scotland (FSS) - to invest in an unregulated investment in 
StoreFirst. They say the StoreFirst investment is illiquid and not providing any income and 
should never have been recommended to them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C are represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). They say that in 
2012, they received advice from Mr L who worked for FSS to invest £120,000 in StoreFirst. 
They say they were advised to disinvest existing investment bonds with Aviva to make the 
Store Pod investment.
Mr and Mrs C say the returns the expected from the investment have not materialised and 
they are worried that they have lost the money they invested in StoreFirst.
The CMC says that the StoreFirst investment should never have been recommended to Mr 
and Mrs C as they were ordinary retail customers  not sophisticated or high net worth 
clients. As a result, the CMC says that Personal Touch should pay Mr and Mrs C 
compensation for the unsuitable advice of Mr L.
In summary, the CMC provided the following evidence and arguments in support of 
the complaint:
A fact find, recommendation letter and related documents from Mr L to Mr and 
Mrs C showing that he had given advice to them about their RBS ISA investment in 
2012 and recommended that they invest in an Skandia ISA. This was a separate 
transaction to the one being complained about, but the CMC said the documents 
showed that Mr L had given this advice representing FSS. The CMC said this was 
evidence that Mr L had given regulated advice in an FSS capacity at the same time 
as the advice about StoreFirst and therefore his advice about the Avia bonds and 
StoreFirst was also likely to have been given in his FSS capacity.
An undated hand-written letter to Aviva signed by Mr and Mrs C asking that their 
bond investments be disinvested. The CMC said that this letter had been written by 
Mr L and this evidenced that he had advised Mr and Mrs C about the 
disinvestment.
A document showing that Mr L had witnessed Mr and Mrs Cs signatures 
on the StoreFirst investment lease agreement dated April 2012.
As Mr L had given the advice about the regulated Aviva bonds whilst 
representing FSS, Personal Touch (as the principal of FSS) was responsible for 
the linked advice about the StoreFirst investment. The CMC said this was 
consistent with a previous decision of the ombudsman service.
Personal Touch didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said:
Mr L was Mr and Mrs Cs son-in-law and that there was no evidence that Mr 
L gave the advice about the Aviva bonds or StoreFirst in any capacity linked to 
FSS.
Mr L would have known that he was not authorised to give advice about 
StoreFirst and that is why there is no documented audit trail of this advice on their 
databases.
Mr L had omitted to include the Aviva bond details in the fact find for the 
FSS advice relating to the ISA investment. This indicated that he had conducted 
any work relating to the Aviva bond and StoreFirst investment completely 
separate to his FSS work.
If Mr L had given the advice, he would have been in beach of the contract 
that Personal Touch had with FSS. Therefore, Personal Touch was not responsible 
for the advice under section 39 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The above points meant that this wasnt a complaint that the ombudsman 
service could consider against Personal Touch.
Mr and Mrs C were also not as financially unsophisticated as the CMC had 
suggested. They were directors of a business consultancy company. And it wasnt 
clear what loss Mr and Mrs C had suffered from the StoreFirst investment.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. Having considered all the evidence, 
his view was that the complaint wasnt one that we had jurisdiction to consider, for 
essentially the same reasons set out by Personal Touch. He said that it was most likely 
that Mr L had advised Mr and Mrs C in a personal capacity.
I was then asked to issue a decision on the matter. Personal Touch at this point also said the 
complaint was time barred under our rules as Mr and Mrs C ought to have known they had 
complaint when StoreFirst stopped making paking payments to them under the lease.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 July 2022. In summary, my findings were that:
Mr and Mrs C had complained within time. They received scheduled payments for 
around four years and I didnt think one deficient payment alone in around May 2016 
was enough for them to have realised they had cause for complaint.
The complaint did involve a regulated activity as it related to the disinvestment of the 
Aviva bonds for investment into StoreFirst.
Mr L was likely to have given the advice in his capacity as an FSS adviser  an 
appointed representative of Personal Touch.
FSS was authorised to give advice on the Aviva bonds. The advice to disinvest the 
bonds and invest in StoreFirst was a single stream advice and intrinsically linked. As 
such, Personal Touch did accept responsibility for the advice being complained 
about.
Given all of the above, we had jurisdiction to consider the complaint against Personal 
Touch.The advice was not suitable and therefore Personal Touch should compensate Mr 
and Mrs C for their losses.
Mr and Mrs C had nothing further to add. 
Personal Touchs response focused solely on the time bar issue. It said:
The burden on proving that the complaint was made in time was on Mr and Mrs C.
The case law on the Limitation Act 1980 (which was analogous to our DISP rules) 
warned against being too generous to claimants and unfair to the defendants in 
interpreting rules.
It was not appropriate to add waiting time to a missed or reduced rent payment.
Mr and Mrs C were due either monthly payments or quarterly payments due in May 
2016  on a guaranteed basis. This was not paid.
The payments received until that time were previously made on a reliable basis, were 
of a large size and presented in the initial advice as guaranteed.
So, any reasonable person would have been immediately concerned on the non-
receipt of the rent payment  it could not be reasonable for Mr and Mrs C to take 
stock.
It may well be that Mr and Mrs Cs close personal relationship with Mr L may have 
given them pause about making a complaint. But this is irrelevant to the test that 
needs to be made in this case. 
I recently wrote to the parties explaining why I still felt the complaint had been made in time 
and shared some further evidence. Personal Touch added to their submissions as follows:
A manuscript note on the Store First Lease submitted as part of the complaint 
material set out that the Mr and Mrs Cs understanding when making the investment 
was that the returns would be guaranteed for 5 years.
The complaint was clearly about the fact that the guaranteed benefits did not arise.
So Mr and Mrs Cs knew or ought to have known they had cause for complaint in in 
March 2016 when the guaranteed rental period ended after 4 years.
I had provided undue latitude to the complainants. Even if the non-payment or 
reduced payment of rent was when Mr and Mrs Cs knew or ought to have known 
they had cause for complaint, I had effectively given them additional time  3 years 
plus some thinking time).
My findings on jurisdiction
I have looked at all the evidence and submissions to decide whether this is a complaint we 
have jurisdiction to consider.
The only further submissions following my provisional decision were about whether the 
complaint had been brought in time. Has the complaint been brought in time?
The rules which govern the operation of our service are part of the regulators handbook. 
The Dispute Resolution (DISP) section sets out that we cant consider a complaint that has 
been made to the respondent business (or referred to us) more than:
Six years after the matter complained about; or (if later)
Three years after Mr and Mrs C became aware, or ought reasonably to have become 
aware, that they had cause for complaint.
So what exactly is Mr and Mrs Cs complaint?  Given the arguments, Ive necessarily gone 
back to look again at what Mr and Mrs C (via the CMC) said in their original complaint letter: 
Your appointed representative Financial Services Scotland (FSS) has arranged 
unregulated investments for our clients. As you will be aware, this type of investment 
is not deemed suitable for the majority of clients. As our clients are "retail customer" 
and are neither sophisticated or high net worth clients this type of investment should 
not have been promoted to our clients. 
In 2012 following discussions with [Mr L], our clients invested £120,000 in Store Pods 
with Group' First. The investments came with guaranteed returns. The returns have 
not materialised and our clients have become increasingly concerned about their 
investment and the possibility of losing their capital.
Our clients financed the investments by surrendering existing investment bonds held 
with Aviva. This was under the advice of your adviser [Mr L]. We have evidence that 
[Mr L] wrote the surrender instruction for the clients to sign. In addition we have 
evidence of his involvement regarding the actual investment:
I think the discussions referred to above are said to form the advice. 
I think it is also worth quoting from Mr and Mrs Cs complaint form submitted to our service:
The appointed representative (AR) of the firm has promoted unregulated 
investments to our client. He has advised the client on the surrendering of regulated 
investments to finance these unregulated investments. These investments should 
never have been promoted to our client as they are not Sophisticated Investors and 
they do not meet the FCA criteria of a Sophisticated Investor.
Looking at this, my view is that Mr and Mrs Cs complaint relates to both advice and 
arrangements for the investment.  The thrust of the complaint is that the investment is 
unsuitable for retail customers and should never have been promoted to Mr and Mrs C. The 
investment returns that they had been told would come with the investment have not 
materialised and this too is a part of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. There is a connection with 
their unhappiness about returns not materialising and what they were told about guaranteed 
returns. The connection isnt clear but, having considered Personal Touchs recent 
submissions carefully, I dont agree that the complaint is about the guaranteed period ending 
earlier than they were advised.  The complaint does not say this. Neither is the complaint 
about the returns being paid to them late. 
So, I have approached the time bar issue with this in mind.There is no documentary evidence about the advice or when exactly the advice was given. 
But it appears that the Aviva bonds were disinvested in February 2012. The StoreFirst 
investment was made a short time later in April 2012. So I think its likely that the advice was 
given in February 2012. And the arrangements would have been made at the same time.
Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to Personal Touch on 27 June 2019. This is clearly 
more than six years after the acts being complained of. So, the crucial issue for me to decide 
is therefore whether the complaint was also made outside the second part of the time limit  
i.e. whether it was made more than three years after Mr and Mrs C knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known, they had cause to complain. Because the complaint was made 
on 27 June 2019, the question becomes whether they knew, or ought reasonably to have 
known, they had cause to complain before 27 June 2016.
Mr and Mrs C have provided statements and emails which show that the last scheduled 
guaranteed full quarterly payment made to them by StoreFirst was in February 2016. 
Ive made further enquiries about what happened next. It appears that StoreFirst exercised 
its option to break the lease by which it was the direct tenant of Mr and Mrs Cs StoreFirst 
pods in March 2016. This meant that from this time onwards, Mr and Mrs C would receive 
rental income not from StoreFirst as guaranteed rent, but directly from people wishing to rent 
the storage pods with the process managed by StoreFirst. 
As part of the evidence in this case, Mr and Mrs C provided a copy of the StoreFirst lease. 
This lease had a manuscript note at the end of the document  written by Mr C. This said:
Advised: Guaranteed Income over first 5 years (8-10-12%). Actioned over year 1-4  not 
actioned year 5. Broke
This suggests that Mr and Mrs C were advised by FSS that there would be 5 years of 
guaranteed payments. Personal Touch says this clearly shows that Mr and Mrs C ought to 
have known they had cause for complaint as soon as the guaranteed payments stopped 
after 4 years  some time between March-May 2016.
But, as Ive explained above, my view is that the complaint is not that the guaranteed 
payments stopped earlier than expected. And the CMC has told us Mr C wrote the note on 
the lease when asking the CMC to review the grounds of his complaint. So it is not 
contemporaneous evidence of what Mr and Mrs C were advised in 2012 in any event. 
The CMC has also said this note was made by Mr C who didnt understand matters as well 
as Mrs C and hed got the guaranteed payments mixed up with the fact that they (Mr and 
Mrs C) could exercise a buy-back option in year 5. I think this is credible as Ive seen 
correspondence relating to a buy/sell back option in year 5. Furthermore, the note does not 
follow the clear terms of the lease in two respects:
The lease clearly allowed for both parties to break the lease after the end of year 4. 
So the guaranteed payments would end after year 4 of the lease if the break option 
was exercised (as indeed it ultimately was). The note doesnt reflect this.
If the break option was not exercised, there would be a guaranteed rent for years 5 
and 6  not just year 5 as set out in the manuscript note.
So, overall, I think the manuscript note has limited value is assessing whether Mr and Mrs C 
have made their complaint in time. Their complaint is not that the guaranteed rents ended 
earlier than expected. And I dont think its likely that they were advised that there were 5 
years of guaranteed payments - I think they would have known that there was a possibility that StoreFirst could exercise its break option after 4 years on 20 April 2016. The letter from 
StoreFirst exercising the break option did not suggest that there would be any problems 
going forward for Mr and Mrs C and the correspondence between StoreFirst and Mr and Mrs 
C does not indicate that this came as a surprise to them. 
So, I dont think Mr and Mrs C ought reasonably to have known they had cause for complaint 
in March 2016 when StoreFirst exercised its break option. Put simply, I dont think the 
exercise of the break option would have put Mr and Mrs C on notice that the advice theyd 
received in 2012 was unsuitable. 
The CMC has explained what happened next as follows:
We would confirm that no payment was due in April/May. The payment made Feb 
2016 for £3080 was the last instalment of guaranteed rent payments as per the 
contract. This payment was made in advance and covered up to 20 April 2016. For 
the avoidance of doubt no payments were missed as per the guaranteed rental for 
years 3 & 4. Bank statements attached will confirm this. As per the contract Store 
First exercised their right to break the lease on the second termination date which 
was 20 April 2016. Going forward income would be dependent on the actual pods 
being rented out. Store First confirmed to the clients that payments would be made in 
arrears going forward. There was nothing to suggest or support at this point that they 
would be any worse off.
We would confirm that the next payment made to the clients was for £1197.09 and it 
was paid 22/07/2016.
The clients realised that the payment was reduced at the point of payment i.e. 
22/07/2016. (please note however that this was not a full quarter rental  we 
understand that this payment covers from 21 April 2016  31 May 2016)
They did nothing regarding the reduced payment received 22/07/2016.  Mrs C 
understood it was a pro rata payment as not a full quarter. She also knew that not all 
their pods had tenants at that time. Mrs C was communicating with Store First.
I think this is credible and is supported by some of the email communications Ive seen 
between Mrs C and StoreFirst. At the end of April 2016, Mrs C was told that their pods were 
tenanted, that payments would be made quarterly in arears and that the guaranteed 
payments had come to an end. 
I think Mrs C was expecting the next rental payment at the end of June 2016 - as evidenced 
by an email dated 7 July 2016 when Mrs C chased StoreFirst for the rent that she was 
expecting but had not received by that point:
Unfortunately, I find myself yet again having to e-mail. Can someone please advise 
me why there is still no payment of rental due. Payment should have been made 
around the 24th June. What is the problem? I am becoming increasingly concerned.
After further emails, Mr and Mrs C received payment of £1,197 on 22 July 2016. 
So, it seems clear that, at least until the end of June 2016, the arrangement with StoreFirst 
was working as it should have done. Mr and Mrs C had received guaranteed rent for 4 years 
(quarterly in advance) but StoreFirst had then exercised its break option. Mr and Mrs C 
expected to receive direct rental returns thereafter (quarterly in arrears). I think they could 
reasonably have expected this to be either at or even above the level they had received during the rental period. There was no indication that this would not be the case. They did 
not know the rent would be significantly reduced when the lease was broken. 
I appreciate that the payment was due around 24 June 2016 and wasnt in fact made until 
22 July 2016. But, in the circumstances of this case, I dont think this means that Mr and Mrs 
C ought reasonably to have known they had cause for complaint on before 27 June 2016 
about the advice theyd received. That is, as Ive said above, the key date as it is three years 
before the complaint was made by Mr and Mrs C. I dont think, non-payment of the rent on 
24 June 2016 means that they knew or ought to have known on that date that they had 
cause for complaint about the advice theyd received in 2012. Payments can be delayed for 
any number of reasons  including simple administrative delays. This was also clearly a time 
when things were in a state of flux after the lease break option was exercised and the 
changeover from guaranteed rents from StoreFirst to direct rental payments. 
I think the nature of the complaint made by Mr and Mrs C is such that I think they ought 
reasonably to have been aware they had cause to complaint when payments continued to 
be either not made or not made as per their expectations. They would have realised then 
that the investment was riskier than they had been advised, that it was not operating as they 
expected it to as it was producing significantly less rent than during the guaranteed period. 
Mrs C also clearly had unresolved concerns about how the investment was being managed 
by StoreFirst. So I think this should all have called into question the suitability of the advice 
theyd received from FSS to make the investment. But I dont think Mr and Mrs C ought 
reasonably to have been aware of this before 27 June 2016. 
Mr and Mrs C complained on 27 June 2019. So, my conclusion is that the complaint made 
by Mr and Mrs C is within our time limits. 
Does the complaint involve a regulated activity?
DISP 2.3.1 states that the Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the 
Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or 
more specified activities, including regulated activities and ancillary activities.
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the Regulated Activities Order 2001 (RAO) and 
include advising on investments and arranging investments.
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is about the advice they say was given to them to disinvest 
their Aviva bonds and to make the investment in StoreFirst. There is no letter of 
recommendation or other document directly evidencing the advice. The evidence, other 
than Mr and Mrs Cs recollections, consists simply of a handwritten letter signed by Mr 
and Mrs C sent to Aviva asking for the disinvestment of the bonds and a Store Pod lease 
witnessed by Mr L with his profession as IFA. But Im satisified that they did indeed 
receive such advice. I dont think they undertook these acts without this being 
recommended to them by Mr L. Personal Touch hasnt disputed this either - it simply 
says that Mr L gave the advice in a personal capacity.The Court of Appeal in Adams v 
Options UK [2021] EWCA Civ 474 has recently made clear that the StoreFirst investment 
is not a relevant investment or security under the RAO. So giving advice about the 
StoreFirst investment is not itself a regulated activity.
However, this complaint also involves advice to disinvest the Aviva bonds. And the 
disinvestment of the bonds was intrinsically linked to the investment in StoreFirst. These 
were components of a single stream of advice. The bonds are a relevant investment 
under the RAO. So, Im satisfied the case does involve a regulated activity because part 
of the act being complained about was a regulated activity.Is Personal Touch responsible (under our rules) for the acts being complained about?
The DISP rules do allow us to consider complaints against businesses such as 
Personal Touch involving their appointed representatives and agents. 
As DISP 2.3.3G explains, complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect 
of activities for which the firm is responsible (including business of any appointed 
representative or agent for which the firm  has accepted responsibility).
This echoes s.39 (3) of the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA), which states:
(3)The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent 
as if he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the 
representative in carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
Therefore, under s.39 of the FSMA, the principal is required to accept responsibility for the 
business being conducted by the appointed representative. And recent case law makes it 
clear a principal firm can limit its responsibility for only part of the business conducted by 
an appointed representative. The recent court cases illustrate some instances of what this 
means in practice and Ive considered this complaint with these developments in mind.
As a starting point, in order for us to hold Personal Touch responsible for the complaint, 
I need to be satisfied that one of its appointed representatives or agents was involved in 
the act being complained about in their capacity as appointed representative or agent. 
In this case, as there is no dispute Mr L gave advice, the question is whether he was 
acting for Personal Touch when he did so.
FSS was an appointed representative of Personal Touch and Mr L was employed by FSS 
as one of its registered individuals at the relevant time. However, Personal Touch says 
that Mr L was Mr and Mrs Cs son in law and was acting in a purely personal capacity 
when giving the advice about StoreFirst. Furthermore, Personal Touch says Mr L knew 
that he wasnt authorised to give advice about StoreFirst on behalf of FSS and this is why 
Mr L didnt document the advice or use FSS details at any point. Personal Touch says this 
is in stark contrast to the fully documented advice about Mr and Mrs Cs ISAs which Mr L 
was authorised to give advice about.
On the other hand, Mr and Mrs C say that Mr L gave them advice about the Aviva bond 
and StoreFirst in his capacity as a FSS adviser. They say he gave the advice at the same 
time as the documented FSS advice about their ISAs and believed he was acting for 
FSS.
We have asked Mr L for his views. He no longer works for FSS and has no links to 
Personal Touch. He told us that he gave the advice about the bonds and StoreFirst whilst 
representing FSS, but didnt document this as he was told not to by his colleagues at 
FSS. He says he didnt know the investment was high risk because it was his first job as 
an adviser.
I am wary of placing much weight on Mr Ls evidence. He is still a close family member of 
Mr and Mrs C and so he may be trying to help them with their complaint. He must also 
have known it was more than unusual to be asked by his firm to not document his advice 
 he likely knew he was advising about something that something that was high risk. So, 
Ive taken account of the evidence only in so far as it is supported by other evidence or the 
circumstances involved.Having considered matters carefully, I think Mr L was likely to have been acting in 
his capacity as an FSS adviser when giving advice about disinvesting the Aviva 
bonds and investing in StoreFirst. My reasons are as follows:
The fact find for the ISA advice is dated 14 February 2012 and the 
recommendation letter is dated 20 February 2012. The handwritten letter to Aviva is 
undated but Aviva sent the disinvested funds to Mr and Mrs C on 25 February 2012 
(the StoreFirst investment wasnt completed until April 2012, but I accept that this 
was because of the time the investment took to process rather than when the 
advice was given).  So I think the evidence suggests that the meetings (it isnt clear 
whether there was one or more meetings) between Mr L and Mr and Mrs C relating 
to their ISAs, Aviva bonds and StoreFirst investment happened at around the same 
time. I dont think its likely that Mr L changed roles at some point during the 
meetings with Mr and Mrs C when advising them about the ISAs, Aviva bonds and 
StoreFirst investment. I think its more likely that he gave all the advice in the same 
capacity  as an FSS adviser.
Mr L adopted this same approach in another case Ive seen that does not 
involve a family member. In that case, just like this one, the consumers say they 
were given documented FSS advice about their ISAs and undocumented advice 
about disinvesting their bonds and reinvesting in StoreFirst. The similarities 
between the cases (including a hand written letter disinvesting the bonds) are 
striking. The consumers, like Mr and Mrs C believed Mr L to be acting for FSS at 
all times. This, to me suggests Mr L probably didnt simply make a one off personal 
recommendation to Mr and Mrs C that was unconnected to his FSS role. In other 
words, there is more than one complainant who says that Mr L was acting as an 
FSS adviser at all times. That is significant in my view.
In other cases Ive seen, Mr L appears to have been involved with a separate 
company - Lauthan Developments  and introduced consumers to another 
regulated firm for pension advice and then went on to give advice about StoreFirst 
representing FSS and signed declarations to this effect. So Mr L has, in other 
cases, given advice on StoreFirst representing FSS. Although the advice isnt 
documented here, Mr L clearly was not averse to giving advice on StoreFirst in his 
FSS professional capacity. I think its likely that Mr L didnt document the advice as 
being from FSS in this case because he knew that Personal Touch didnt permit its 
advisers to give advice about these types of investments  not because he was 
giving a personal recommendation unconnected to his FSS role. He may have left 
more of a paper trail in other cases linking the advice to FSS, but that is not fatal to 
what I think happened here.
Personal Touch points out that Mr and Mrs C may not be completely unsophisticated 
investors as they later became directors of a company which worked in business 
consultancy. That seems to happened much later in 2016 and was a short lived venture 
as the company was also dissolved in 2016. As such, I dont think its relevant to my 
consideration of the issues here. But I accept that Mr and Mrs C should arguably have 
questioned why the advice about the bonds and StoreFirst was not documented in the 
same way as the advice for the ISAs. However, I also appreciate that, given the close 
family relationship with Mr L, they are likely to have trusted that everything was being 
done appropriately and in their interests and so may have overlooked important details. I 
give weight to the latter point.
On the balance of probabilities, my view is that Mr L was representing FSS when giving advice to Mr and Mrs C to disinvest their Aviva bonds and reinvest in StoreFirst and that 
Mr and Mrs C proceeded on this basis too.
As Ive said above, Personal Touch isnt responsible for all acts of its appointed 
representatives. The crucial issue is whether Mr L was acting within the terms of the 
contract between FSS and Personal Touch when conducting the acts which are the 
subject of this complaint.
Personal Touch has said the terms of its contract with FSS limited the business that 
FSS was allowed to carry out to a list of specific activities and specific products. That list 
did not include investments such as StoreFirst.
However, the list of activities and products that FSS could advise on included bonds and 
included Aviva as an authorised product provider. So, my view is that FSS was authorised 
to give advice about the merits of buying and selling Mr and Mrs Cs Aviva bonds. That is 
what happened here.
Of course, this complaint involves advice about StoreFirst too. But, even if Personal Touch 
didnt give its authority for FSS to give advice about StoreFirst, this was essentially one 
act  a single stream of advice to sell the Aviva bonds to buy StoreFirst. In such situations 
theres well established case law that we can hold the principal responsible for the act 
even if part of what was done was not authorised. In Martin v Britannia [1999] EWHC 852 
(Ch) and Tenetconnect Services Ltd v Financial Ombudsman and another [2018] EWHC 
459 (Admin), the courts held that advice couldnt be confined to one part of an overall 
transaction and that acts can be intrinsically linked. In this case, the advice about selling 
the bonds and the advice to make the investment in StoreFirst were, in my view, so 
closely connected that they were intrinsically linked  and part of the same activity.
So, I think Personal Touch did, under section 39 FSMA, accept responsibility for the acts 
conducted by Mr L in recommending disinvestment of the Aviva bonds for the investment 
in StoreFirst. So, we have jurisdiction to consider the merits of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint 
against Personal Touch  which I now do below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In giving advice to Mr and Mrs C, Mr L ought to have made a recommendation that was 
consistent with their investment objectives and their personal and financial circumstances. 
He should given a written recommendation with reasons. It doesnt appear he did this 
before recommending the disinvestment of the Aviva bonds to make the investment in 
StoreFirst. As Ive said above, I think thats because he knew that Personal Touch did not 
permit such investments. But as Ive also explained, that does not mean that Personal 
Touch isnt responsible for whats happened.
Mr and Mrs Cs details (apart from their Aviva bonds) were recorded in the fact 
find completed by Mr L in respect of their ISAs. In brief:
Mr C was 64, Mrs C 61.
Both were retired and their sole source of income was their pensions, which 
were modest.
They had approximately £100,000 invested in stocks and shares ISAs.
They had approximately £10,000 in savings.They had assets  mainly consisting of their home  totalling £250,000.
They had a medium risk profile.
Mr L didnt record details of Mr and Mrs Cs Aviva bonds. These had a value of 
approximately £88,000. It also appears that Mr and Mrs C had some other savings 
through which they ultimately made up the shortfall for the £120,000 investment in 
StoreFirst once they had disinvested their bonds.
Mr and Mrs C have told us that they were looking to increase their retirement income at 
the time in 2012, but couldnt afford to take risks.
Looking at the above, I dont think Mr and Mrs C were experienced or sophisticated 
investors. I think they were reliant on the advice from Mr L. And I dont think they were 
prepared to, or had the capacity to, take risks with any investment funds at their 
disposal.
Mr and Mrs C were given advice by Mr L to invest a significant sum into StoreFirst. This 
was an unregulated investment with a limited track record and no investor protection  so 
it was high risk and speculative. There was a possibility it would fail and Mr and Mrs Cs 
entire investment would be lost. So, I think the advice Mr L on behalf of FSS gave to Mr 
and Mrs C to disinvest their Aviva bonds and invest in StoreFirst was clearly unsuitable.
As such, I think Personal Touch should now compensate Mr and Mrs C for their losses.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr and Mrs C as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not 
been given unsuitable advice.
I think Mr and Mrs C would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what they would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr and Mrs C's circumstances and objectives when they invested.
What should Personal Touch do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs C fairly, Personal Touch must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs C's investment with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Personal Touch should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
StoreFirst Still exists For half the Date of Date of my 8% simple per
but illiquid investment: investment final year from final
FTSE UK decision decision to
Private settlement (ifInvestors not settled
Income Total within 28 days
Return Index; of the
for the other business
half: average receiving the
rate from fixed complainant's
rate bonds acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
I understand that the Store First investment has a nil value and is unlikely to provide 
any returns in the future. So the actual value will be nil. Personal Touch should take 
ownership of the investment, but if it cant or chooses not to do so, I understand Mr and 
Mrs C have the option of returning the Store First investment to the freeholder for nil 
consideration.
In the event that Mr and Mrs C decide not to transfer the investment to the freeholder 
they should be aware that they will be liable for all future costs associated with the 
investment such as business rates, ground rent and any other charges. They should also 
be aware it is unlikely they will be able to make a further complaint about these costs.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Personal 
Touch should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published 
by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the 
previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis.
Any additional sum that Mr and Mrs C paid into the investment should be added to the 
fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal (e.g. in this case the rental payments received by Mr and Mrs C from the 
StoreFirst investment) should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it 
was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. 
If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Personal Touch totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to 
determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Personal Touch should also pay Mr and Mrs C £500 for the considerable distress 
and inconvenience caused to them by the unsuitable advice.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs C wanted Income with some growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for 
someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of 
diversified indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to 
take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr and Mrs C's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they 
were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs C into that position. It does 
not mean that Mr and Mrs C would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs C could 
have obtained from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to  
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that 
Personal Touch Financial Services Limited pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Personal Touch Financial Services 
Limited should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £160,000 
plus any interest set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that Personal Touch Financial Services Limited pays Mr and Mrs C 
the balance plus any interest on that amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Personal Touch Financial 
Services doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr and Mrs C can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr and Mrs C may want to get 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Abdul Hafez
Ombudsman