DRN-4448218
The complaint
Mr A complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of a claim he made 
under his home insurance policy.
Admiral is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Admiral has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, 
in my decision, any reference to Admiral includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In late 2022, Mr A made a claim under his home insurance policy with Admiral after a burst 
pipe caused damage to his property. 
Mr A raised a number of concerns about Admirals handling of his claim. He was unhappy 
about a delay in a loss adjuster visiting his property to assess the damage, as well as delays 
in installing drying equipment and assessing damage to his boiler. Admiral wouldnt agree to 
reimburse Mr A for costs such as electricity and the hire of skips and dehumidifiers until his 
claim had been validated. 
Mr A says the information in the loss adjusters report is inaccurate and the photograph on 
the front of it is of a different property. He says he was asked to provide information hed 
previously provided to Admiral several times. And Admiral threatened to cancel his policy 
and decline his claim if he didnt agree to an interview with a second loss adjuster it had 
brought in to validate his claim. 
Admiral didnt agree with all of Mr As complaint points. It said it had appointed a specialist 
loss adjuster as part of its validation process and this visit was Mr As opportunity to provide 
everything he believed was necessary relating to his claim including his timeline of events. 
Admiral acknowledged delays in visiting Mr As property to assess the damage, installing 
drying equipment and assessing his boiler. It also acknowledged that its communication with 
Mr A could have been better. In a final response letter dated 12 July 2023, it said it would be 
sending Mr A a cheque for £1,300, which included £1,250 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr A remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his concerns. Our investigator 
didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld. He thought it was fair for Admiral to require 
further information to validate Mr As claim and he should have been able to return his 
signed statement. He thought Admiral had appropriately compensated Mr A for poor service. 
Mr A disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said the investigator had failed to take 
into consideration that Admiral had offered him almost £1,500 in compensation. He 
commented that our investigator hadnt asked him to get a letter from his doctor confirming 
how stress had impacted his health. 
Mr A also commented that our investigator hadnt taken where he was living now, the strain 
on his relationships and his mental health into consideration. He said he hadnt taken into 
consideration photo evidence of the wrong house and Admiral was looking at the wrong 
house for six months. He hadnt questioned why Admiral was accusing Mr A of harassment 
or the code of conduct of its members of staff.
As Mr A disagrees with our investigators outcome, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered everything Mr A as told our service, but Ill be keeping my findings to what I 
believe to be the crux of his complaint. I wish to reassure Mr A Ive read and considered 
everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference 
it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service.
To be clear, in this decision I have only considered matters Mr A has complained of up until 
Admirals final response letter of 12 July 2023. Im aware that Mr A has brought another 
complaint to our service about Admirals actions after this date. This will be considered 
separately.
Validation of claim 
For escape of water claims the policys terms and conditions exclude cover for loss or 
damage caused while your home is unfurnished or unoccupied.
Mr A says he was living in the property when the escape of water incident occurred. 
However, Admiral has noted discrepancies in some of the information he provided. So, it 
asked for further information from Mr A to validate his claim.
Mr A says Admiral repeatedly asked him for documentation hed already provided. He says it 
told him the claim had been validated but it later told him it had failed before telling him it had 
passed and then failed again.
I can see that Admiral asked Mr A for completion date documentation for his property along 
with a council tax and utility bill. A few weeks later Admiral has noted Mr A had a dispute 
with the council over the property being noted as unoccupied and this had been resolved. 
Admiral requested proof of this which Mr A agreed to send in. A couple of weeks later, 
Admiral noted that the council tax bill wasnt acceptable because it had long term 
unoccupancy noted, which meant it didnt confirm his residency. 
Admiral says further information Mr A provided was validated by its underwriting team and 
he was told his claim would be released back to his claims handler. However, after this the 
claim was passed back to Admirals claims validation team for a further review. 
This was no doubt frustrating for Mr A. However, Admiral has apologised for not explaining 
the process properly and for any confusion caused. It appears to have considered this in its 
award for compensation.From what I can see, Admiral decided to instruct another loss adjuster to carry out an 
interview with Mr A in order to try to validate his claim. However, Mr A wouldnt agree to sign 
a statement relating to the interview.
Admirals claims procedure is set out in the policys terms and conditions. This says:
If you or your family are involved in any type of claim or loss, you must:
-tell us about the matter as soon as possible
-give us all the information we reasonably need about the claim, including a crime 
reference number or loss report number (if appropriate)
-co-operate with our investigation
We are entitled to:
-
-Appoint loss adjusters or other experts, inspect damage, and arrange for repairs or 
replacements, and
-Ask you to get estimates for repairs or replacement items.
I havent been provided with a copy of what Mr A was asked to sign. Mr A says it was to 
verify what hed said in the recording of the interview. However, Mr A was reluctant to sign 
this without seeing a transcript of what hed said or receiving the recording.
Admiral says a full copy of Mr As statement was sent to him in May 2023, but it told Mr A the 
rest of the report or transcript would not be provided to him as it contained business 
sensitive information.
Admiral doesnt appear to have been able to validate Mr As claim with the information hed 
provided. I dont think it was unreasonable for it to decide to interview Mr A in order to 
establish whether or not he was entitled to claim under the policy. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Admiral to require Mr A to sign a statement confirming what hed said in 
the interview to be accurate. 
To be clear, I havent considered whether or not Admirals decision to cancel Mr As policy 
and decline his claim was fair as these actions are beyond the scope of this complaint. 
Delays and communication
Admiral has apologised for delays in visiting Mr As property to assess the damage, installing 
drying equipment and assessing his boiler. 
Admiral has noted that Mr A raised concerns about the property being left damp around ten 
days after the incident. He was told there was a surge in demand at the time. From what I 
can see the first loss adjusters visit took place more than three weeks after the incident and 
it took around two months for drying equipment to be installed.  
Admiral has acknowledged that it didnt communicate with Mr A as well as it should have. It 
says there were numerous times when emails werent answered, and call backs were 
promised but not carried out.
Mr A also raised concerns when he found that the photograph on the front of the loss 
adjusters report was of a different house. Hes suggested his complaint about this affected 
Admirals decision regarding the acceptance of his claim. Admiral has acknowledged that the report contained an incorrect image of the front of the 
property. It says this had no bearing on the claim but upheld this part of Mr As complaint in 
recognition of its error.
It's unclear how the wrong photograph ended up on the front of the loss adjusters report. I 
can understand why this gave Mr A the impression that Admiral had been looking at the 
wrong property when considering his claim. I can also appreciate Mr As frustration that this 
error hadnt been noticed prior to him pointing it out. However, Ive considered the impact of 
this on Mr A in the amount of compensation I think is fair for distress and inconvenience.
Mr A has made us aware of an eye condition hes been receiving treatment for. He says the 
stress and anxiety hes experienced as a result of how Admiral has dealt with his claim has 
caused him to have further issues with his eye. 
While I havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude that Admirals handling of his claim is 
the cause of Mr As eye condition, I do understand this has been a stressful situation for him. 
However, in its final response letter of 12 July 2023, Admiral said it was sending Mr A 
cheque for £1,300 in recognition of its errors - £1,250 of this was for distress and 
inconvenience. This was in addition to some other payments it had previously made for 
distress and inconvenience in relation to Mr As claim.
Ive explained why I dont think Admiral has acted unfairly in respect of its attempts to 
validate Mr As claim. I think that its communication with Mr A has been poor at times and it 
is also responsible for delays in progressing his claim. However, I think the amount Admiral 
has already paid Mr A sufficiently recognises the distress and inconvenience its poor service 
has caused to him. So, I dont require it to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman