DRN-2707483
The complaint
Mr W complains that esure Insurance Limited unfairly reduced the no claims discount 
(NCD) applied to his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W made a claim following damage to his car. It was a fault claim and esure told him this 
meant his NCD would reduce to three years. Mr W says he hadnt made a claim for over 20 
years, so he was losing 17 years of NCD. He understood most insurers would have reduced 
it by two or three years, so he thought esure had treated him unfairly. He said if hed known 
this was how esure would handle his NCD, he wouldnt have taken out insurance with it.
esure said it had been clear about how it handled NCD changes when Mr W bought the 
policy and had treated him the same way it would anyone else in his position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Each insurer is entitled to decide how much, if any, NCD it wishes to offer and how 
that will change if a claim is made. Most insurers will set a maximum amount of 
years NCD it will take into account and each will decide what maximum it sets.
When selling a policy, an insurer should be clear about the NCD it offers and how 
that will change. That enables consumers to understand what to expect and to make 
an informed decision about whether a particular policy is suitable for them.
Before buying the policy, Mr W spoke to esure. During the call esure said the first 
fault claim would reduce the NCD to three years. Mr W said that was ok.
Afterwards, esure sent Mr W the policy documents which set out how it handled NCD 
changes. This was the same as explained in the call.
Im satisfied esure was clear with Mr W about how it would handle his NCD.
Mr Ws claim was recorded as fault and thats not in dispute. The policy is clear that 
where a policyholder has an NCD of five or more years, a single fault claim will 
reduce the NCD to three years. So esure has treated Mr W in line with the policy and 
the same way it would treat any other policyholder.
Mr W considers esure has unfairly reduced his NCD by 17 years, rather than the two 
to three many insurers might do. esure isnt required to handle NCD changes in the 
same way as other insurers. But I note its policy refers to five or more years of NCD, 
which indicates it sees five years as the maximum it will take into account. Reducing 
five to two is in keeping with what Mr W says other insurers do.
Overall Im satisfied esure was clear with Mr W about how it would handle his NCD  and 
handled his NCD change fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman