DRN-4003149
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the broker Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd trading as Sterling 
Insurance Services (Sterling). He says it failed to properly advise him about the market value 
when he applied for a car insurance policy online through a comparison website. He says 
the site prepopulated the market value which was well below the actual value of his car. He 
says Sterling failed to explain the consequences of this in the event of a claim, which he did 
make with the insurer of the policy. 
What happened
Mr B bought a car insurance policy online through a comparison website. The broker for the 
policy was Sterling. 
Mr B made a claim under his policy as his car was stolen. The insurer paid Mr B a market 
value for his car which he didnt agree with. 
Mr B has made a separate complaint against the insurer about the market value it paid. 
Mr B complained to Sterling. He said the website and therefore Sterling had prepopulated 
the market value at £7,000. He said he paid £10,000 for his car so he wouldnt have put a 
value in at £7,000.
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.
Mr B didnt agree. He said we had misunderstood his complaint. He said the website does 
input a value for a car. But he believes Sterling should have alerted him to the valuation 
amount before he bought the policy. Mr B explained that he has learning difficulties. He feels 
Sterling should have properly explained to him the consequences of having an accurate 
market value quoted on the policy in the event of a claim. He wants compensation for the 
distress he says Sterling caused him. 
So Mr B wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr B applied for the policy, he chose a policy from a comparison website. The broker 
for the policy he chose - Sterling - didnt provide advice on the suitability of the policy. This 
was a non advised sale.
I agree with Mr B that the comparison website provides a trade in value for a car once the 
registration details are added. However, I also think it was clear during the online journey - 
which Ive followed - what assumptions were made about the valuation provided - and that 
Mr B had the option to change the valuation on the comparison website if he wanted to. 
Before Mr B bought the policy, screenshots from Sterling - and my own checks - show that a 
policy summary is displayed by Sterling based on the information Mr B provided. This does 
show the market value - whether this has been prepopulated or changed by the consumer. 
So I think the valuation that Mr B set was available for him to check again before proceeding 
to buy the policy. 
I understand Mr B feels Sterling should have done more to advise him of the importance of 
providing an accurate market value. And it should have warned him of what could happen in 
the event of a claim. 
Sterling wasnt aware of Mr Bs need for additional assistance as he didnt tell it. If he had, I 
would have expected to see that Sterling made reasonably adjustments to help Mr B with his 
application. So I cant criticise Sterling for not acting on something it wasnt made aware of. 
Looking at the screen immediately before proceeding to buy a policy with Sterling, I can see 
it shows the estimated value of the car. So I think Sterling did make this clear. The estimated 
value was further set out under the policy schedule Sterling sent to Mr B along with the 
policy wording. And in the policy wording, it explains what will happen in the event of a claim 
and that the insurer will pay the market value - up to the amount Mr B declared. 
As Ive said, Mr B has raised a separate complaint about whether the value the insurer has 
paid is fair and a separate decision has been issued by this service about that complaint. 
Mr B says he doesnt feel he should pay the balance premium due to the service he has 
received. Although this isnt part of the complaint we have investigated, Mr B has received a 
market value settlement from the insurer. In all insurance cases, where a claim has been 
made, the whole years premium is due under the yearly contract. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B. But in their role as broker, I dont think Sterling has acted 
unreasonably. So Im not asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman