DRN-4268837
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Covea Insurance plc declined their claim for storm damage.
Mr and Mrs L had buildings insurance underwritten by Covea for their rental property. The 
policy was in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer mainly to Mr L throughout my 
decision.
What happened
Mr L claimed under the buildings policy after a retaining garden wall at his rental property 
collapsed during poor weather. He believed the damage was caused by storm conditions 
and provided Covea with a structural engineers report to support his claim.
Covea assessed the damage, but it didnt agree thered been a storm which wouldve 
caused the damage. Its engineers report said the damage was caused mainly by gradual 
build-up of pressure behind the wall. Covea declined Mr Ls claim under the policy exclusion 
of gradually operating causes.
Mr L complained to Covea, and brought his complaint to us after it issued a final response 
maintaining its decision to decline the claim.
Our investigator didnt think the weather reports showed evidence of a wet storm. 
Nevertheless, she looked at whether the damage was likely to have been caused by a one-
off insured peril based on the expert reports provided. Having done so, our investigator didnt 
think Mr L had provided sufficient evidence to show a storm caused the damage. Our 
investigator thought Covea had reasonably declined the claim for the reasons it gave.
Mr L didnt agree. He didnt think it was reasonable to use weather data from stations miles 
away from the property. He also said the wall was constructed with drainage and he believed 
the claim should be accepted.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs L, Ive decided not to uphold their 
complaint. Ill explain.
Both parties are aware of the three questions we ask when deciding complaints of this 
nature, and that the answer to all three questions must be yes for a claim to succeed.
Was there a storm?
The weather data Covea provided shows a dry storm  high winds  but no evidence of 
heavy rainfall which would meet the policy definition of a storm. Mr L provided evidence of 
heavy rainfall during one hour leading up to the wall collapse. While theres some dispute 
about the weather conditions at the time of the damage, I accept that where the data is 
recorded some distance from the property, and without taking into consideration the precise 
location of the property, there may well be differences between the weather reported and 
that experienced. So, for the purposes of my decision, Im accepting that there was a storm.
Is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Its reasonable to say that garden walls can be damaged during a storm. Therefore, I think 
its fair to accept the possibility that the damage was caused by a storm.
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by the storm?
Turning to this final question, its Mr Ls responsibility to show that his garden wall collapsed 
because of the storm. If Covea disagrees, it must show that a policy exclusion applies.
Covea declined Mr Ls claim for the following reason:
the retaining wall collapsed due to hydrostatic pressure on the wall caused by a 
gradual build-up of water ingress over a period of time in the soil strata.
Mr L provided a structural engineer report to support his claim. However, Covea pointed out 
that it said the following:
the new wall design should allow for good drainage to prevent the build-up of forces 
behind the wall
Covea said this statement supported its view that the cause of damage was a build-up of 
pressure, therefore not a one-off event.
Ive looked at Mr Ls report, but I cant reasonably say it confirms that a single storm event 
caused the wall to collapse:
The retaining wall supporting the driveway has collapsed after heavy rain caused 
additional hydrostatic pressure on the wall.
The use of the word additional suggests to me that heavy rain simply set in motion the 
chain of events caused by pressure which had built up over time  that is, a gradually 
operating cause. Therefore, the report doesnt confirm that a one-off storm event caused the 
damage.
Ive considered the rest of Mr Ls report. The comments are mainly about what the soil and 
tarmac looked like and how the replacement wall should be constructed. I cant reasonably 
say that the report reaches a conclusion about these observations which indicate a single 
storm event caused the wall to collapse.
Covea relied on the policy exclusion for wear and tear  anything that happens gradually. 
Here, that was the build-up of hydrostatic pressure over time. Im not persuaded that Mr L 
has shown that the damage was caused by an insured peril. So, based on the evidence, Im 
satisfied that Covea declined the claim fairly, in line with the policy and for the reason it 
gave. 
I understand Mr L doesnt think Covea examined all insured perils. Covea considered Mr Ls 
claim under the storm condition in line with his report of the damage. It also considered 
accidental damage, but there was no cover under the policy. Its not clear what other peril Mr L thinks Covea shouldve considered, but I note he maintains that the wall collapsed due to a 
substantial build-up of water behind the wall whether it was gradual or not. 
I dont think theres any dispute that a build-up of water caused the damage. The issue is 
that the policy doesnt provide cover unless the damage was caused by a one-off insured 
event. In the absence of persuasive evidence to support that, I see no reason to require 
Covea to reconsider the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman