DRN-3455461
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly turned down a 
claim on their building warranty policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Js new-build home is covered by a ten-year building warranty policy. In years 
three to ten, they made a claim for roof defects. The defects were allowing water to pass 
behind the gutter which then would run down the outside wall of their house and soak into 
the brickwork. Because of this they claimed on their policy with NHBC as they said it would 
likely cause damage to the brickwork and eventually get into their home and cause damage. 
NHBC reviewed the claim and turned it down as they said gutters werent covered by the 
policy. Mr and Mrs J disagreed and complained. They said the problem wasnt with the 
gutter but instead was with the roof underlay which should be dressed into the gutter. NHBC 
reviewed the complaint but didnt change its position so Mr and Mrs J referred their 
complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt recommended it was upheld. She found 
that while NHBC had said the problem was with the guttering, theyd also referred to the 
policy terms which said defects with the roof werent covered unless water was getting into 
Mr and Mrs Js home. So, while she agreed the roof underlay hadnt been installed correctly, 
as water wasnt getting into Mr and Mrs Js home, she agreed the claim wasnt covered by 
the policy. 
Mr and Mrs J disagreed, they said the underlay clearly hadnt been installed correctly and 
this was causing water to run down the side of their home which would eventually result in 
damage.
As Mr and Mrs J didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions NHBC have relied upon are covered in section three of the policy 
and they say claims arent covered for the following:
Damage to the roof covering (including any underlays, fixings, mortar 
and weatherproofing details) unless the damage results in water getting 
into your home.
Ive reviewed the images Mr and Mrs J have provided and their explanation of whats 
happened. And while I can understand their frustration as the underlay hasnt been installed 
correctly, it doesnt mean their claim is one which is covered under the policy terms and 
conditions. 
I say this because for the claim for the underlay to be covered, water would need to be 
getting into their home. Mr and Mrs J have confirmed water isnt getting into their home, and 
therefore it isnt covered by the policy. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer they were hoping for, but I wont be telling NHBC to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman