DRN-3540916
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt with a 
claim under her home insurance policy.
Mrs S is represented by Mr C, who I will normally refer to, as he mainly dealt with the claim.
What happened
Mrs S made a claim for an escape of water at her home. When RSA carried out works in the 
kitchen to deal with the damage, Mr C was unhappy with some of the repairs. So, he 
contacted RSA to complain. 
When RSA replied, it said its contractors had made some changes at Mr Cs request to the 
height of the cooker and to how the worktops were joined. It said it wouldnt pay any more 
disturbance allowance as the property was habitable. However, it accepted its service could 
have been better, for which it offered £100 compensation. It had also looked at whether it 
was responsible for damage to the cooker lid. RSA said there was no evidence to confirm 
how the cooker was damaged and whether it was the result of wear and tear or caused 
when the contractors moved it. It offered £278, which was a 50% contribution towards the 
cost of a new cooker.
Mr C complained to this service. Our investigator said RSA didnt need to do anything further 
as it had dealt with each of the issues reasonably.
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 16 May 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold this complaint in part. I said:
When an insurer deals with a claim, it should put the policyholder back in the position they 
were in immediately before the claim. When the repairs were being carried out to the 
kitchen, Mr C asked for some changes to be made that he is now unhappy with. I asked 
RSA to confirm whether the contractor had the authority to change how the repairs were 
completed, but didnt receive a response on this point. I also asked RSA to confirm whether 
the changes were safe, but it didnt respond to this either.
Although I accept the contractor seems to have made the alterations as a gesture of 
goodwill, they were variations to the works required to settle the claim. So, in my view, those 
repairs needed to be lasting and effective, as would any other repairs carried out to settle a 
claim.
There are a number of items Mr C complained about. First, was that the cooker was 
damaged during the works. I havent seen anything to show the condition of the cooker 
before the works were carried out or that the contractors were responsible for damaging it. 
RSA offered to pay half the cost of a new cooker. In the circumstances, I think that was 
reasonable and I dont currently intend to require it to pay anything further towards the cost 
of the cooker.
Mrs S received a disturbance allowance while her home was uninhabitable due to a lack of 
cooking facilities. RSA stopped paying the allowance when the cooker was reinstalled. As Mr 
C was concerned about the damage to the cooker, he said Mrs S should continue to be paid 
the disturbance allowance, as he had concerns for her safety. However, looking at what 
cooking facilities were available to Mrs S, she still seemed to have access to the oven and a 
microwave. So, Im currently satisfied Mrs S still had access to cooking facilities and that it 
was reasonable for RSA to stop paying the disturbance allowance when it did.
Mr C also complained about the quality of some of the workmanship. He said the worktops 
had been installed at the wrong height, which meant the laminated edges could be exposed 
to the flames from the gas hob. He said the oven and worktops should be the same level. He 
also said the worktops were installed without a joining bar and were butt jointed and colour 
filled. Mr C has said the work wasnt carried out correctly. RSA said this was done at Mr Cs 
request and that it can fit a joining bar, as this was how the worktops were originally fitted. 
But Mr C has rejected this. Mr C has also provided a photo that shows some kind of 
compound in the joints that seemed to be crumbling. Im aware the contractor visited and 
has said it didnt see any issues with the joints during its visits. Mr C was also unhappy about 
the box which had been fitted under the oven at his request to raise the height of it.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the works require further inspection to identify whether they 
were carried out correctly and that the repairs were lasting and effective. So, I currently 
intend to say that RSA should send a kitchen fitter to assess the works. RSA must ensure 
the kitchen fitter hasnt previously worked on this kitchen before as part of the claim and 
doesnt work for the company that carried out the kitchen repairs. Both parties should 
provide the kitchen fitter with evidence to help with the assessment. Although I dont intend 
to require the kitchen fitter to carry out their assessment in a specific way, they might wish to 
take into account relevant industry or manufacturer guidelines and the condition and layout 
of the kitchen immediately before the claim.
The kitchen fitter should inspect the kitchen as follows:
Confirm whether the kitchen worktops are at an appropriate height.
Confirm whether the kitchen worktops have been correctly fitted.
Confirm whether there are any issues with the worktop joints, including with the 
compound.
If the original cooker is still on the platform installed by the fitters, confirm it has been 
safely installed, in particular its alignment with the worktop. However, if the cooker has 
now been changed and/ or it is no longer on a box, the fitter doesnt need to assess this.
The kitchen fitter should provide both parties with their findings. If the kitchen fitter identifies 
any issues with these items that were down to the works carried out by RSA, the fitter must 
identify what action needs to be taken to restore Mrs S to the position she was in 
immediately before the claim. Any decision by the kitchen fitter will be binding on both 
parties. RSA must pay for the kitchen fitters visit and any works that need to be carried out 
to bring the claim to a close. 
Ive also thought about compensation. RSA has already offered Mrs S £100 compensation 
because of the issues with how the claim was handled. Based on everything Ive currently 
seen, I think that amount was reasonable and I dont intend to require RSA to pay any 
further compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 13 June 2022.Mr C replied and explained again Mrs Ss age and the impact of what happened during the 
claim. He also said RSA didnt raise the oven as a gesture of good will but to cover up its 
mistake because it installed the kitchen worktops too high. Mr C confirmed Mrs S had a 
microwave, but said this was just to heat microwave dinners. Mrs S couldnt boil an egg or 
fry a breakfast. Mr C said RSA had offered to move Mrs S to a B&B during the claim, but she 
didnt think it would be safe, which was why Mr C had housed her. Mr C said he had been 
offered a £10 a day inconvenience payment, which he had accepted, plus RSA had paid Mrs 
S a small amount of compensation.
Mr C explained how he thought the cooker had been damaged by RSA. He also said RSA 
had been provided with the same photos as were provided to this service and I had drawn 
the same conclusions as Mr C about the works. RSA had also initially declined to deal with 
Mr C until proof was provided that he could act on her behalf.
RSA didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part and for the reasons previously 
given. As part of that, Ive considered the additional comments from Mr C but Im not 
persuaded that these change my decision about how this complaint should be resolved. I 
remain of the view that a kitchen fitter should assess the works and that the compensation 
already offered by RSA was appropriate. 
Putting things right
RSA should appoint and pay for a kitchen fitter. The kitchen fitter should confirm whether the 
kitchen worktops are at an appropriate height and correctly fitted and whether there are any 
issues with the worktop joints. If the original cooker is still on the platform, the kitchen fitter 
should confirm if this is safe. RSA should pay for any works that the kitchen fitter identifies 
need to be carried out as part of the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Appoint a kitchen fitter to identify any issues that were down to the works carried out by 
RSA by:
oConfirming whether the kitchen worktops are at an appropriate height.
oConfirming whether the kitchen worktops have been correctly fitted.
oConfirming whether there are any issues with the worktop joints, including with 
the compound.
oIf the original cooker is still on the platform installed by the fitters, confirming it 
has been safely installed, in particular its alignment with the worktop. However, if 
the cooker has now been changed and/ or it is no longer on a box, the fitter 
doesnt need to assess this.
Pay the cost of the kitchen fitters visit and, if the fitter identifies that any further works 
need to be carried out on the above items as part of the claim, pay for those works. Both 
parties will be bound by the kitchen fitters findings.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman