DRN-1994436
 
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) delayed investigating 
her report that a credit card had been taken out fraudulently in her name.
What happened
A credit card with Barclaycard was taken out in Mrs As name in 2014. The card was used, 
and repayments werent made in line with the agreement and the account was passed to 
debt collectors. A default was registered, and the debt was then sold to a different business. 
In 2019 Barclaycard accepted that this had been a fraudulent application and removed the 
debt and the information reported to credit reference agencies. It wrongly sent evidence   
Mrs A had submitted about the fraud to the fraudsters address. It paid her £500 in 
compensation for this. Mrs A wasnt satisfied and said that she reported what had happened 
in 2014 and then 2016 and Barclaycard didnt take any action.
Barclaycard said that it was only informed about this fraud in October 2018. It didnt then 
think that the activity was fraudulent and said Mrs A wouldnt provide the information it had 
requested. Mrs A had passed this to a legal representative and named the fraudster she said 
was someone known to her. Barclaycard reviewed statements that had been sent in. It 
agreed that this was fraud. It said it couldnt be responsible for the actions of the business 
that had taken over the debt which Mrs A said had continued to contact her and her 
daughter after October 2018. It accepted it had made a mistake in dealing with her 
information and it said it had compensated her for this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclaycard take any further action. He said that the 
Barclaycard systems information indicated that the first calls about this were in 2015. 
Barclaycard had been texting and calling the numbers it had. And when it called Mrs A, she 
was unwilling to discuss the account and complete identification checks. He had provided 
copies of three call recordings to Mrs A.  In 2016 the third-party business contacted 
Barclaycard to say that Mrs A denied the debt was hers. There was no subsequent contact 
until 2018 and Barclaycard then accepted it was fraudulent activity. The £500 in 
compensation was in line with our approach.
Mrs As representatives said she didnt agree. Only the first of the calls provided was with 
Mrs A and the others were with her husband. He thought a fraudster was calling. 
Barclaycard should have written a letter and not got someone to call Mrs A from an overseas 
call centre.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 10 June 2020 as I wanted to give Mrs A and her 
representative the opportunity to comment on what I considered to be the full picture here. At 
that time, I didnt think that this changed the outcome of the complaint. I set out what I said 
below.
I said that clearly a credit card application was made in Mrs As name in 2014. It has since 
been accepted that this was a fraudulent application and Mrs A says that this was by 
someone known to her. Mrs A says that she received a letter in 2014 about this account 
informing her that she owed money and demanding payment. And that when she contacted 
Barclaycard, she was told that this was being investigated and not to report this to police. 
She says that the next contact was from a debt collection agent in October 2016. Again, she 
went through what had happened and it said it would speak to Barclaycard. She heard 
nothing further until October 2018 when she was contacted by a business with a different 
name but which she thought was part of Barclaycard and she then complained. She says 
that there has been adverse credit information recorded against her for years.  She wants 
compensation for her anxiety and distress and for the legal bills of £2,000 she has incurred. 
And her bank statements from February 2014 to October 2015 that shed sent in to support 
her claim had been sent by Barclaycard to the address it held for the fraudster. 
Barclaycard has provided its contact notes about this account. I could see that in March 
2015 following arrears on the account it arranged for calls from its collections department. 
These calls were being made to a genuine number for Mrs A. On 22 March 2015 there is a 
note that someone had called to say that these were fraud calls. And Ive listened to three 
subsequent calls made to the number from Barclaycard. The first was answered by Mrs A 
and she says she doesnt have an account and asks why she is being called. The following 
two she says were answered by her husband. He wanted to know where the calls were 
being made from and says he couldnt provide any details and has written about this. In the 
third call he gives the number being called and Barclaycard agrees to remove it from the 
system. In my view Mrs A thought that the calls themselves were fraudulent and refused to 
engage with them. So, I agreed that Barclaycard wasnt able to take forward a claim of fraud. 
Barclaycards records show that it sent out notices of arrears and was unsuccessful in calls 
now to the mobile number for the account it had on record. It issued a notice of default. It 
used a debt collection agent but its case records state that this agent told it in December 
2015 that it was unable to trace the genuine cardholder who was then marked as having 
gone away. The debt was sold to a different business in March 2016. That business clearly 
attempted contact with Mrs A and she refers to this in October 2016. That business 
contacted Barclaycard as it seemed to have been told by Mrs A that Barclaycard had agreed 
to write the debt off. Barclaycard records that it told the third party to ask Mrs A to contact it 
about this. I couldnt see any further record of contact from Mrs A until she complained in 
October 2018. That was the time when she was again being contacted about this debt by a 
third party.
my assessment
It is now agreed that Mrs A has been the victim of fraud and I didnt doubt that the actions of 
that fraudster have caused her distress especially as she says it was someone known to her. 
I said I was thinking here about what Barclaycard did and whether as Mrs A says it should 
have realised that this was fraud earlier on.
Its clear that it was in contact with Mrs A in 2015. She denied any connection with this 
account and thought the calls themselves were from a fraudster. Id not seen any clear 
evidence that she pursued a claim that the account was established fraudulently. And as she 
wouldnt engage with Barclaycard about this on the phone no evidence about why she 
believed this to be fraud was collected. I thought it fair to say that Mrs A was satisfied when 
the contact about this debt stopped for extended periods. Adverse information was recorded 
on her credit file. But that didnt seem to come to her attention and shes not said how if it did 
that affected any credit applications. Had it done so that might have alerted her that things 
werent resolved.After March 2016 Barclaycard didnt have direct involvement with this debt as it had been 
sold. It didnt do anything later in 2016 as it didnt have direct contact from Mrs A. And I 
couldnt look into what any third party then did about the debt in a complaint about 
Barclaycard. It did seem that any recovery action was suspended until October 2018 and 
then Mrs A complained.
I didnt need to decide now whether this was a fraudulent account taken in Mrs As name as 
thats accepted. But its clear that when Barclaycard first looked into this in October 2018 it 
didnt think that it was. It received information from Mrs A through her representative in 
January and February 2019 and then decided that this was identity theft and borrowing 
taken out fraudulently. It has taken the debt back from the third party and removed adverse 
credit information.
Unfortunately, it sent Mrs As documentation back to the fraudsters address. Id seen 
evidence that Barclaycard followed its process of treating this as a data protection and 
security incident. And Im looking here at the impact on Mrs A, not any regulatory process or 
as Mrs As representatives say whether or not it should have reported this to the Information 
Commissioners Office. 
Its clear to me that the compensation offered was only for this issue. Theres no evidence 
that shes been caused any financial loss. Id set out above what happened, and I didnt think 
Mrs A was prepared to engage with Barclaycard in 2015 other than insisting it wasnt her 
debt and not to call her. She took a lack of contact as a fraud having been accepted. But that 
wasnt the position as Ive set out above. I was looking at whether Barclaycard should have 
investigated things in a different way earlier on. I wasnt persuaded based on what Id seen 
that it should. As a result, I said I wouldnt be asking it to compensate her further or pay her 
legal bill. It was her choice to get this help, but we rarely think such costs are essential in 
complaints of this nature. 
I knew I was going to disappoint Mrs A when I said that my provisional finding was that I 
wouldnt be asking Barclaycard to take any further action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard didnt make any further comments.
Mrs As representative said she didnt agree. It was re-iterated that she believed the calls in 
2015 from Barclaycard to be fraudulent. So, she didnt engage with them. Barclaycard ought 
to have written to her and it failed to do so and sold the debt. The representative said it was 
surprised that I take the position that she should have dealt with Barclaycard given the 
known issues of fraudsters making false calls. Mrs A said she called Barclaycard in 2016 to 
say she hadnt taken out the card. Again, Barclaycard should have written to complete a 
declaration, but it took no action. 
The representative said it wasnt Mrs As responsibility to resolve things. She knew she had 
problems with her credit record and had declined applications, but she didnt know why. It 
was the duty of Barclaycard to look into this and not put pressure on her by recording 
adverse information when she was unaware of the reason why. Mrs A as a result has 
suffered stress and financial hardship as Barclaycard didnt investigate things properly. The 
form it sent her in 2019 could have been sent in 2015.Ive considered these further comments carefully. Mrs A was the victim as Ive said of 
identity fraud by someone close to her who had been able to obtain her information. When 
this was investigated Mrs A had to provide further information to demonstrate that there was 
a fraud, and this has now been corrected. There would unfortunately be inconvenience for 
Mrs A and likely some difficulty in correcting the position, but this was caused by the 
fraudster who took out borrowing in her name and did not pay it back.
On her account Mrs A knew about the borrowing in October 2014 when she got a letter. 
Although she says she contacted Barclaycard then it has no record of this. And so, when it 
later tried to contact her, and nothing had been done I think it might have become 
reasonably apparent there was an issue. If Mrs A believed the calls to be fraudulent then of 
course she wouldnt have given out her details. But unless she engaged in some way - 
possibly by phoning back - I dont see how Barclaycard would have had a basis to pursue a 
fraud claim. 
There may be some misunderstanding still about the sale of the debt. This went to a third 
party separate to Barclaycard. And the evidence is that even though Mrs A told that business 
about the issue in 2016 she didnt contact Barclaycard as it said it requested. I am now 
aware that she knew about problems with her credit record and would have been in a 
position to undertake a search and find out where those originated before October 2018 
when it is agreed that she raised this formally with Barclaycard.
Id expect Barclaycard to do what it could to detect and then investigate fraud. But I am not 
persuaded it had a sufficient basis to do so here until 2018. And if that wasnt happening any 
sooner then I think it reasonable that Mrs A pursue this to deal with the consequences for 
her of the actions of the fraudster. Im sorry to hear more about those but Im afraid it doesnt 
change my finding that I dont think Barclaycard acted unreasonably. So, Im afraid I wont be 
asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that I wont be asking Barclays 
Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman