DRN-2521871
The complaint
Mr N and Mrs W complain about delays and poor service by TSB Bank plc when trying to get
access to their bank account.  
What happened
My initial conclusions were set out in a provisional decision that explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr N and Mrs Ws complaint. I said: 
What happened
Mr N and Mrs W live abroad and have told us their account has been open since 1979. Mr N
says that in April 2019 he asked for a cheque book, bank card and security codes to access
telephone banking. Mr N says that despite being advised TSB would help, he didnt hear
anything further. Mr N says he didnt hear back and in September, October and November
2019 called to find out what was happening. Mr N also says he wrote to TSB on 1 October
2019 asking for his contact details to be updated and new security codes.
Mr N and Mrs W ultimately complained and TSB responded on 19 December 2019. TSB
said it hadnt ever issued debit cards for the account and that replacement cheque books
had been ordered in April 2019. However, TSB said that as Mr N and Mrs W have a foreign
address it couldnt sent the cheque book to them so it was destroyed.
TSB also advised that it didnt have an up to date signatures for the account and asked for
certified copies to be provided. TSB said that once it had Mr Ns signature on file it could add
his telephone number and arrange to send a new security code.
TSB apologised and paid Mr N and Mrs W £57 for expenses and £30 for the distress and
inconvenience caused.
After receiving TSBs final response, Mr N got the certified copy of his signature requested at
a cost of €13.80. He then sent the signature via recorded delivery to TSB at a cost of €12.30
and its systems show the document was received on 3 February 2020. Mr N has sent in a
telephone bill to show he called TSB in April, May, June and July 2020 to chase an update
on his signature.
TSB has recently said that when it received Mr Ns certified signature it was attached to the
complaint file and that there is no guaranteed timescale for dealing with a follow up
complaint. TSB says Mr N was told he could refer his complaint to our service in April 2020
when he called and that he should have taken that step if he was unhappy with the delay.
TSB has recently confirmed that Mr N was able to gain online account access on 17 July
2020 which means the account can now be used. But, TSB has also advised that on 26
June 2020 the case handler looked at the signature Mr N had sent but didnt process it
because his complaint had been referred to our service. TSB says that due to a policy
change, it now cant use Mr Ns signature to send him a security code.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr N and Mrs Ws complaint as they thought TSB had dealt
with it fairly. Mr N asked to appeal and said the existing settlement didnt take the events that
occurred after he sent in his signature and the delays he encountered when trying to access
his account. As Mr N and Mrs W asked to appeal, their complaint has been passed to me to
make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint broadly fits into two parts. The first relates to the events that happened before
TSB issued its final response, the second relates to what happened after Mr N and Mrs W
sent in the information requested.
TSBs final response dated 19 December 2019 accepts that there were delays responding to
Mr N after he requested a new cheque book and bank cards. It appears that despite ordering
a new cheque book, TSB destroyed it as it couldnt be sent abroad. TSB also said Mr N
needed to send a certified copy of his signature to gain account access. TSB paid Mr N £30
for the trouble and upset caused plus £57 for his expenses. Whilst I agree there was a delay
responding to Mr N and that TSB should have told him it couldnt send a new cheque book
to a foreign address, Im satisfied the total compensation of £87 fairly reflects the impact of
the delay.
Once Mr N and Mrs W received TSBs final response, they acted on the information it
contained. Mr N sent across the requested certified copy of his signature at the end of
January 2020 and it was received by TSB on 3 February 2020. Mr N has pointed out that
despite several expensive phone calls to TSB, no one processed the signature he sent in.
Mr N and TSB have confirmed that he was able to gain account access after he registered
online in July 2020, not because the signature he sent was processed.
I recently asked TSB to explain the delay from 3 February 2020 and it said Mr Ns signature
had been added to the complaint file but there was no set timescale for reactivating a
complaint. But the letter and certified signature Mr N sent werent a continuation of the same
complaint, he was responding to TSBs request for further information. I think Mr N had a
reasonable expectation that sending the information TSB requested in its final response
would lead to his signature being applied to the account so his telephone number could be
registered and security codes sent as promised. TSB has recently said that Mr N sent his
response back to the complaint handler which is why it was added to the case file. But the
final response doesnt give any alternative instructions to Mr N so I think his decision to
respond to the case handler made sense.
TSB has explained that Mr N was able to register for online banking so now has access to
his account. But its also confirmed that it hasnt processed Mr Ns certified signature and
that its processes have now changed. TSB doesnt appear to have used the certified
signature Mr N obtained and sent in, despite requesting it in his final response.
Mr N has asked for the costs of certification and post to be refunded. Had TSB used the
certified copy of the signature it requested, I wouldnt have told it to refund Mr Ns costs.
Businesses have to ensure they hold up to date information about their customers. But,
here, Mr N appears to have been able to gain account access online and the certified
signature he sent to TSB hasnt been used. Mr N incurred costs in obtaining a certified copy
of his signature and sending it to TSB. But TSB didnt act on the certified copy of Mr Ns
signature or use it to give him account access. As Mr N paid for something that TSB didnt
go on to use, I think its only fair it refunds those costs. Mr N says that came to €26.10.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to award the cost of certifying documentsand the postage Mr N paid.
Mr N has also asked for his call costs to be covered and has pointed out that the situation
was inconvenient as he had to chase TSB throughout. I agree there was some
inconvenience to Mr N in this case. Whilst the account isnt one they use often, Mr N and
Mrs W should still have a reasonable expectation that their requests will be acted on by TSB
in good time. Ive noted the case handlers comments about why Mr Ns letter received on
3 February 2020 wasnt dealt with. But the response largely deals with TSBs internal
processes and how it handles complaints and post. Here, Mr N wasnt responding to
continue his complaint, he was responding with the information TSB had asked him for.
Adding the signature to the complaint file and not acting on it meant account access wasnt
regained by Mr N and Mrs W for several months. I can see Mr N called to chase a response
and that there was some inconvenience. Ive factored Mr Ns call costs into the distress and
inconvenience caused, so Im not going to make a separate award. Overall, I think a figure of
£75 for the delays, calls and inconvenience caused to Mr N and Mrs W fairly reflects the
impact on them. Based on the information Ive seen so far, thats what I intend to award.  
I invited both parties to respond with any additional points they wanted to make. TSB sent us 
systems evidence that shows it did use the certified copy of Mr Ns signature to be arrange 
online account access. I contacted Mr N and said that, as the certified signature he paid for 
was used for its intended purpose, I intended to change the settlement and award £75 in 
recognition of the delay and inconvenience caused only. Mr N and Mrs W didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I still think Mr N and Mrs Ws complaint about TSB should be upheld for broadly the same 
reasons. In line with my email to Mr N, Im not awarding the costs for certifying his signature 
because TSB has shown it was used to arrange online account access. As a result, Im 
going to uphold this complaint and award £75 to Mr N and Mrs W in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused by TSBs delays.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to pay Mr N and Mrs W 
£75 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its delays.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman