DRN-2301807
The complaint
Mrs S complains that the mortgage recommended by St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc wasnt suitable for her needs.
What happened
Mrs S sought advice from St. James in 2017. She had an existing mortgage of about 
£92,000 and unsecured debts of about £66,000. Mrs S wanted to reduce her monthly 
outgoings which exceeded her income. St. James recommended Mrs S re-mortgage and 
consolidate unsecured debts.
Mrs S says the mortgage recommended by St. James was expensive and only increased 
her disposable income by a small amount. Mrs S says St. James:
Didnt search the market for the best product, or disclose the limits on its service.
Should have advised her to take specialist debt advice or make arrangements with her 
creditors.
Should have advised her to stay with her existing lender and take out a better product.
Didnt provide calculations showing the costs of consolidating debt.
Shouldnt have recommended a sub-prime lender given her excellent credit rating.
Our investigator said St. James had confirmed its scope included all lenders that can be 
approached by brokers. Its notes showed it discussed alternatives with Mrs S, such as 
making arrangements with her creditors. Mrs S said she wanted to maintain her credit in 
good standing and payment arrangements wouldnt have allowed this. Mrs S wanted to 
consolidate debts and St. James gave her information on how this would affect her monthly 
outgoings. Our investigator said Mrs Ss options were limited due to the level of her 
unsecured debts and St. James didnt act unfairly.
Mrs S didnt agree. She said shed been misled by St. James saying its scope included a 
comprehensive range of lenders. It didnt provide evidence it researched the market or that 
she was recommended the best deal. Mrs S said asking her if she wanted to maintain her 
credit standing was a leading question, and shed have been happy to reduce her outgoings 
by negotiating with creditors if shed been told this was an option.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
St. James recommended a 10-year repayment mortgage to Mrs S, which she used to 
refinance her existing mortgage and repay unsecured debts. Because St. James gave 
mortgage advice and recommended the mortgage, it needed to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the mortgage was suitable for Mrs Ss needs. To do this, it needed to ask for 
information about Mrs Ss needs and circumstances. 
St. James provided copies of a fact find carried out with Mrs S and its recommendation 
letter. These say Mrs Ss objectives were for a repayment mortgage over 10 years, to 
coincide with her expected retirement date. She wanted the certainty of a fixed interest rate. 
Her outgoings exceeded her income due to the costs of her unsecured debts, and she 
wanted to consolidate unsecured debts to reduce her outgoings to within her income and 
create some disposable income. The fact find says Mrs S wanted to complete quickly, and 
consolidate debts as soon as possible.
Mrs S raised some specific issues in her complaint, which Ill deal with first.
St. James didnt search the market for a better product, or disclose the limits on its service.
It shouldnt have recommended a sub-prime lender given her excellent credit rating.
St. James says it sent a Services Costs and Disclosure Document which described the 
products it offered, the service it provided, the cost of its advice and its terms of business.
This says St. James offers a comprehensive range of mortgages from across the market 
which lenders make available to mortgage intermediaries to meet an array of needs.
I dont think St. James misled Mrs S about its service. It did offer mortgages from across the 
market. The only limitation was that it couldnt offer products that lenders only offered direct 
to customers. 
I think what limited Mrs Ss options here wasnt the scope of L&Cs service, or a failure to 
search the market. I think her options were limited due to the amount of her unsecured debts 
compared to her monthly income. St James said it approached the market leading lender in 
this field and it declined because of this. It provided evidence to support this.
St. James then outsourced the search to a specialist mortgage packager. It says the lender it 
recommended offered the best rates. I think the reason St. James didnt provide a 
comparison of available mortgage products, or offer Mrs S more options, was because her 
options were so limited.
St. James should have advised her to stay with her existing lender and take out a better 
product.
We asked Mrs S if shed approached her mortgage lender. She said she didnt make a 
formal application as one of its advisers said it was unlikely it would lend enough to repay 
her credit card debts. I dont know if St. James asked Mrs S about this  but I think the 
outcome would likely have been the same whether it did or not. Based on what Mrs S said  
and the fact that other lenders declined to lend due to Mrs Ss unsecured debts  it seems 
unlikely Mrs Ss previous lender would have offered additional lending to repay these debts.
St. James should have advised her to take specialist debt advice or make arrangements with 
her creditors. St. James didnt provide calculations showing the costs of consolidating debt.
St. James recorded Mrs Ss objectives as including consolidating short-term debts. Its 
records say being able to restructure her debts was an important factor to reduce her 
monthly outgoings. 
Mrs S was having difficulty meeting her outgoings, which exceeded her monthly income by 
about £270. St. James said Mrs Ss monthly debt repayments would reduce from about 
£2,000 to £1,560 after the re-mortgage and debt consolidation. It said the monthly payments would decrease because shed be paying the loans off over a longer period. St. Jamess 
records say the impact of using the mortgage to consolidate existing debts was discussed, 
and in particular, the impact of securing loans against a property. 
St. James told Mrs S that if she incurred credit cards and other unsecured debts at this level 
again her only option would be to declare bankruptcy or agree an arrangement with her 
creditors. Its letter to Mrs S said making alternative arrangements with the existing creditors 
was discounted because you wished to reduce your monthly outgoings to within your 
disposable income and this was the best way to achieve this.  
While I think its likely there was some discussion about the costs of debt consolidation, I 
havent seen evidence that St. James prepared a comparison of the costs of repaying 
Mrs Ss unsecured debts through consolidation as compared to repaying the unsecured 
debts. 
I also havent seen evidence that St. James discussed with Mrs S whether it would have 
been more appropriate for her to negotiate an arrangement with her existing creditors, rather 
than to take out a mortgage. I think it should have done this. Mrs S ought to have been given 
an opportunity to think about whether this was a better option for her than re-mortgaging. 
However, I also need to consider what would have happened if St. James had given this 
information to Mrs S.  
In late 2017 Mrs S had limited options. Her outgoings exceeded her income. Given Mrs Ss 
circumstances at that time its unlikely she was in a position to repay her unsecured debts 
over the short term. From what shes said her unsecured debts were more likely to increase.
Mrs Ss existing lender had said it wouldnt offer additional borrowing, so this wasnt an 
option. Most lenders were unwilling to lend to her, due to her unsecured debts. So her 
choice was to re-mortgage and consolidate debts, as recommended by St. James, or try to 
reach an arrangement with her unsecured creditors.
The debt consolidation reduced Mrs Ss monthly debt repayments. The monthly mortgage 
payments appeared affordable and Ms S has been able to maintain them. She achieved her 
aim of shortening the mortgage term to 10 years, to fit in with her retirement, and having 
some monthly disposable income. Mrs S also maintained her credit rating.
If Ms S had made an arrangement with her creditors to pay less than the required monthly 
payment, this would have been recorded on her credit file. Its likely this would have affected 
her ability to access credit, and her cost of credit. Given the amount of Mrs Ss unsecured 
debts and her income, its unlikely shed have made any significant in-roads into repaying 
them in the short term. Its likely her creditors would have wanted her to pay as much as she 
could to bring the accounts up to date, so shed have been left with little disposable income 
for some time. There would have been a risk of a creditor recording a default if Mrs S wasnt 
able to bring the account up to date within a timescale acceptable to the lender.
So I think while trying to make an arrangement with creditors would have been an option, 
this wasnt without downsides and risks for Mrs S.
On balance, I dont think I can fairly find that Mrs S would have acted differently if St. James 
had advised her to look into an arrangement with her creditors, or that shes worse off 
because it didnt. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman