DRN-1649565
 
The complaint
Mr T says Aviva Insurance Limited mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) for a 
mortgage. Aviva didnt actually sell the PPI but it has taken responsibility for the complaint. 
So Ill refer just to Aviva in this decision.
What happened
Mr T took out a PPI policy to protect his mortgage repayments by post in 1993. It was to 
provide him with cover once the free one-year unemployment-only PPI policy, that he had 
taken out after at a meeting about his mortgage and related protection in 1992, expired. The 
1993 policy provided Mr T with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment, and he paid 
a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Mr T has provided a detailed response to 
the adjudicators view. I have considered all his points carefully but in keeping with our role 
as an informal dispute resolution service, I have commented here only on those I think are 
material to the outcome of his complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why. I would first say that I am 
considering the 1993 sale as a separate sale of a new policy. I will expand on this in my 
findings below and Ill deal with each sale separately.
the 1992 sale
Mr T took out PPI offering solely unemployment cover at the same time as he applied for a 
mortgage. It was offered to him free of charge for a year.  He says that it wasnt presented 
as optional. Our adjudicator explained that as it was free even if there had been any 
problems with the sale, Mr T didnt suffer any loss so she wouldnt uphold his complaint on 
that basis. 
I would add that from the documentation Mr T has submitted I cant find any clear evidence 
that it was presented as mandatory to him, or otherwise mis-sold. Whilst I cant know what 
was said in any meetings or calls, it seems he wrote agreeing to accept the free cover and 
provided the information as requested. So I am satisfied its most likely Aviva presented the 
cover as optional, and I have seen Mr T agreed to take it out. It seems Aviva advised Mr T to take out the PPI.  This means it had to check it was right for 
him. I think it was suitable for Mr T based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
The PPI gave Mr T up to 12 months unemployment cover.  Mr T had savings worth at least 
six months salary but the PPI wouldve meant he could have used these to cover other living 
expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for his future needs. Overall, given the 
consequences of defaulting on a debt secured against his home, I think the PPI wouldve 
been useful for Mr T if he lost his job. 
I dont know exactly what information Mr T had been given about the PPI before he agreed 
to have it. Its possible Aviva didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover at the 
time of the sale. But Mr T doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things (such 
as type of employment contract). So I think its unlikely he wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would still have taken 
out the policy.
It follows I dont think the 1992 policy was mis-sold. 
the 1993 sale 
Mr T completed, signed and returned PPI application forms in 1993 that Aviva sent him by 
post. The covering letter made clear doing so was optional, saying should you wish to 
apply. So, I think Aviva made Mr T aware he had a choice about buying this PPI policy, and 
he chose to take it out. I cant find enough evidence to agree that it was presented as a 
continuation of the cover from 1992. In my view it was a new sale of a different policy.
Mr T argues that as this policy led on from the advice he was given in 1992, Aviva cannot 
say that it didnt recommend the PPI to him. I would make two points here. As Ive said, I 
think the 1993 policy was a separate sale  the letter Aviva sent him said it was a similar 
policy he may be interested in. And Aviva hadnt asked for updated information on his 
circumstances and then made a bespoke recommendation. Rather it sent Mr T information 
on the policy in the post, several weeks before his existing cover was due to expire, giving 
him an opportunity and time to consider whether or not he wanted to have it - and he 
decided to apply. Although Mr T has mentioned feeling pressured, I haven't found any 
evidence of anything Aviva did that in my view amounted to unfair pressure to have the PPI.
So I know Mr T feels strongly that as the sale followed the 1992 policy Aviva cannot distance 
the sale from the advice it says it previously provided, but I dont agree.  In my view it was up 
to Mr T to decide whether or not he wanted the PPI in 1993. His circumstances might have 
changed significantly in the intervening months and I dont think Mr T could fairly have 
expected to rely on any advice he had been given at an earlier time and about a different 
policy. 
But even if Aviva had recommended the cover, I think it was suitable for Mr T based on what 
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr T told us he was entitled to very limited sick 
pay. The PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this for all successful sickness and accident 
claims for up to 12 months. It also gave him up to 12 months unemployment cover.  Mr T 
had savings worth at least six months salary but the PPI wouldve meant he could have 
used these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for his 
future needs. Overall, given the consequences of defaulting on a debt secured against his 
home, I think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mr T if he was sick or lost his job. 
The price of the policy per £ of benefit was set out in the letter he got from Aviva. So it 
seems Mr T was made aware of the overall cost and found it acceptable. Ive seen no 
evidence the policy was unaffordable. And Mr T could have cancelled the policy at any point 
if he no longer wanted it, incurring no further cost. I dont know if Mr T had all the information he needed about the PPI before he agreed to 
have it. Its possible Aviva didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover at the time 
of the sale. Mr T says he only received a policy document four months later. But Mr T 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things (such as type of employment 
contract or pre-existing medical conditions). So I think its unlikely he wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would still have 
taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mr T has lost out because of any problems with the 1993 sale. I 
anticipate Mr T will be disappointed with my findings, and I acknowledge he has invested 
significant time and effort in this complaint. But after carefully considering all the evidence I 
cant, on balance, fairly uphold his complaint for the reasons set out above.  
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint in respect of either sale. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman