DRN-3834153
The complaint
Mrs A complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as 
Scottish Provident has unfairly refused her critical illness claim. Instead, it has voided the 
policy on the grounds of misrepresentation. 
To resolve her complaint, Mrs A wants Scottish Provident to pay her the outstanding claim 
value. She says it is using loopholes to avoid paying out on a genuine claim. 
What happened
Mrs A applied for a Scottish Provident Self Assurance policy through a third party financial 
adviser in May 2001. On 12 June 2021, Scottish Provident confirmed to the adviser and Mrs 
A that the policy had begun on 8 June 2001. It offered Mrs A level life cover of £40,000 as 
well as level death, terminal illness or earlier critical illness benefit of a further £40,000. It 
had other additional benefits including premium protection benefit and total and permanent 
disability benefit. The policy was set up for a 25-year term, to June 2026.  
In April 2021, Mrs A made a claim to Scottish Provident for critical illness benefit, as she had 
sadly been diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis (MS). 
Scottish Provident thereafter wrote out to Mrs As GP and her treating consultant for further 
information in May 2021. It says it had to chase for medical information several times. In 
June 2021, it asked Mrs As GP for additional information as the report it had supplied was 
insufficient to validate the claim.  
Further report requests were sent to the GP in July 2021, August 2021, September 2021, 
and October 2021. 
On 2 December 2021, Scottish Provident wrote to Mrs A to ask her view on three policy 
questions she had answered on 29 May 2001 in relation to smoking, her history of kidney 
disease and whether she had consulted a doctor or undergone diagnostic tests in the three 
years preceding the policy application.  
Mrs A explained that she found it upsetting to be questioned by Scottish Provident over 
things that she could not remember. She said, in summary:
she agrees she signed the application, but it wasnt completed in her handwriting;
she had taken the policy out because it was a provision of lending to purchase her 
local authority home at the time;
she was very young and inexperienced at that time, and placed faith in the adviser;
she may have smoked very occasionally on a social basis but she had never 
considered herself a smoker;
she had disclosed that she suffered from asthma when completing the application;
she would not consider a childhood ailment relating to her kidneys was relevant, 
because it was a minor matter;
the condition was never described as kidney disease;
her recent MS diagnosis now takes a huge toll on her health and the process of the 
claim has made matters worse;
she had paid the cover consistently for over 20 years and now feels she is being 
treated unfairly;
her GP was frustrated with having to deal with multiple requests for information.   
Her reply was treated as a complaint by Scottish Provident. 
On 17 February 2022, Scottish Provident rejected the complaint. It said though it had to 
undergo several attempts to seek medical evidence, it was satisfied that its requests for 
information from Mrs As GP had been appropriate. It was required to examine Mrs As 
relevant medical records in detail, in order to fairly assess her claim.
Scottish Provident apologised for upsetting Mrs A, and confirmed that was not its intention. 
However, it said the medical information it received differed to that of Mrs As policy 
application, and for that reason it had written to allow her the opportunity for an explanation. 
Scottish Provident told Mrs A it was still considering the evidence alongside her response 
and its claims team would confirm an outcome in due course.  
On the same date by separate cover, Scottish Provident rejected Mrs As claim. It said the 
medical evidence that it had received showed that she was attending renal clinic reviews 
within the three years prior to policy application, the most recent being three months prior.
It explained how its underwriters could not have offered Mrs A the same cover for the same 
price in 2001. In fact, it could only have provided her life cover for a greater cost. 
It therefore gave Mrs A two options  she could either reduce the death benefit to £20,690 
and keep the death, terminal illness or earlier critical illness benefit at £40,000 with a 
reduced monthly premium of £8.34 because of the removal of all but the death benefit. This 
would entitle her to a partial refund of £1,579.02. Or she could have all the premiums shed 
paid from the outset returned to her, totalling £3,859.41. If Mrs A did not choose an option, 
the latter would apply by default. 
On 20 March 2022, Mr and Mrs A wrote to Scottish Provident complaining that neither option 
was acceptable to them. They also noted Mrs A hadnt agreed to amend her policy. They 
said their concerns should be treated as a formalisation of their complaint.
On 18 May 2022, Scottish Provident upheld the complaint in part. It said its claim decision 
had been correct. But it accepted that it had told Mrs A it would amend her policy without her 
consent, and that this would have been additionally upsetting for her. Though it had rightly 
given her two correct options to move forward or cancel the policy, it should not have 
assumed any option and it felt that its actions would have caused Mrs A distress. It therefore 
issued her a cheque for £150 compensation.  
In July 2022, Scottish Provident told Mrs A it still hadnt received a reply as to her decision 
about the policy going forwards. So, it said if it did not hear from her further within 14 days, it 
would cancel the cover and return all the premiums she had paid. Consequently, Scottish 
Provident told Mrs A on 8 September 2022 that it had cancelled the policy, as advised. 
Mrs A brought the complaint to this service. She explained that she consented for this 
service to also speak with her husband, Mr A, as a representative.
She said Scottish Provident had strung out the claim for over a year and sent continued, 
unnecessary correspondence to her doctors. She felt Scottish Provident was looking for any excuse to avoid the claim and cancel the policy; it was now alleging that it could not honour 
the payment based on vague details that she may have smoked 20 years ago  yet she 
was a non-smoker. Mrs A explained how she was suffering both emotionally and financially 
due to Scottish Providents actions. 
Scottish Provident said it hadnt refused the claim because of smoking  this had since been 
disregarded. The reason it had reached a belief that there had been a misrepresentation 
was because Mrs A hadnt answered the question about consulting a doctor in the last three 
years correctly. If it had known about Mrs As renal clinic appointment three months before 
the policy started, it would have insured her for life cover at a higher cost but refused critical 
illness, total permanent disability, disability income and premium payment benefits.  
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint, but she did not think it should 
succeed. She said she felt the question Mrs A had been asked was clear, and she needed to 
tell Scottish Provident about her review at the renal clinic which would lead to disclosure of 
her kidney condition. 
If she had done so, Scottish Provident couldnt insure her on the same terms. So it was fair 
for it to amend the policy now to remove the benefits it couldnt offer and reduce the life 
cover sum assured based on the premiums Mrs A had paid.  
Mr A said he and Mrs A did not accept the investigators findings. They asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. 
Mrs A also replied directly and said that if Scottish Provident will not pay out and instead only 
return her premiums, she questioned if it should be liable for interest on that refund. She also 
explained she was upset by the refusal to uphold her complaint.  
Scottish Provident did not make any further comments. The complaint has now been passed 
to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Mrs As diagnosis and how difficult things have been for her. I know 
my decision will be disappointing but Im unable to direct Scottish Provident to pay her claim. 
Though I agree it should have paid compensation in respect of the upset it has caused, I 
otherwise do not believe it has acted unfairly. Ill explain why Ive reached this view below.  
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. If the 
circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have 
occurred within an application, it will consider what ought to have happened at that time. 
That is what Scottish Provident has done. 
When it received information from Mrs As consultant regarding the claim, it was noted on 
the recent clinic documentation from April 2021 that her consultant had written to another 
renal consultant for a view on Mrs A, regarding an incidental finding of haematuria. In that 
letter it was confirmed how from the age of 11, Mrs A had suffered with glomerulonephritis, 
following an episode of glandular fever. From that point on, she had annual renal check-ups. 
On this basis, Scottish Provident was prompted to seek additional information about this 
matter. A further neurology letter from 10 September 2019 (where it was suspected Mrs A may have MS) also referred to her previous history as chronic kidney disease, following 
glandular fever in childhood.  
Once it had reviewed Mrs As medical records relating to glomerulonephritis, Scottish 
Provident said its underwriting rules meant it couldnt have offered Mrs A any critical illness 
cover at all. Because of this, it cant pay her claim for MS now. 
It therefore falls to me to look at what Mrs A was asked, and determine if I think she made a 
misrepresentation, upon which Scottish Provident could amend the terms it offered and/or 
avoid the policy. The correct position is to decide what ought to have happened at the time 
of the application. That means looking at what was asked of Mrs A, against the relevant 
medical records up to the date the policy started on 8 June 2001.  
Though I know Mrs A has contended otherwise, Scottish Provident has not gone further to 
rely on misrepresentation over any history of smoking  and it is not the reason the claim 
was refused. It was raised by Scottish Provident because Mrs As records from the years 
preceding the policy do mention her being an occasional or social smoker. Since it has not 
been considered in relation to the claim, I have not looked at this issue further.
In the policy application, Mrs A was asked:
Have you consulted your doctor or any other doctor, or been advised to have an
operation, x-ray, check-up or investigation in the past 3 years?
She answered no to this question. However, the medical records show that Mrs A had 
visited a number of consultants between June 1998 and June 2001 for conditions including 
Raynauds syndrome and glomerulonephritis. For the latter she undertaken annual reviews, 
since her condition had begun following the episode of glandular fever as a child.  
These renal clinic reviews were increased on occasion because Mrs A also suffered from 
haematuria and proteinuria  so, where required, this was monitored through urine tests. In 
the months preceding the policy application, Mrs A had seen the renal clinic in December 
2000. The clinic then wrote to her GP to ask it to obtain urine samples from Mrs A in 
February 2001, as the clinic had required a four-month follow up depending on the results.  
As it was, Mrs A was seen at the renal clinic again in July 2001  after the policy began, 
because the GP sent a letter dated 19 February 2001 noting her urea and creatinine levels 
had returned to normal. At that time, the consultant had noted Mrs A required no specific 
treatment of her renal disease.  
I therefore appreciate why Mrs A felt that she may have had nothing of consequence to tell 
Scottish Provident about; since she wasnt being actively treated for her kidney condition. 
But I must be fair to both parties, and the duty on an applicant is to answer a question to the 
best of their knowledge or belief, providing it is neither unclear nor ambiguous. 
This question was clear; it asked Mrs A if shed consulted a doctor in the last three years or 
been advised to have a check-up. And she had undergone tests  routine or otherwise  as 
well as being seen on several occasions by her GP and renal clinic. It wasnt for Mrs A to 
decide if the matter was insignificant or not. Scottish Provident needed to know an accurate 
medical history upon which it could decide if it offered Mrs A insurance, and on what terms.  
I am also mindful that while Mrs A may not have written on her application, she had signed a 
declaration which said:I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the statements made in this 
application and in any document delivered pursuant to it, whether in my handwriting 
or not, are true and complete and that I have not concealed any material fact. 
(Material facts are those likely to influence the companys assessment and 
acceptance of the application).
I confirm my understanding that failure to disclose a material fact may lead to the 
avoidance of the plan applied for, or a rejection of any claim thereunder.
So, I do think, on balance, that it was likely that the need to answer the questions carefully 
was put to Mrs A at the time of the application; though sadly, she did not do so.  
I therefore believe there was a misrepresentation. Mrs A needed to show more care in 
answering the question put to her, rather than substituting her own view for what was asked. 
The application process was designed to trigger the requirement for medical reports based 
on the information disclosed. Because Mrs A did not answer the question positively, the 
cover was offered on standard terms without further underwriting.  
In these circumstances, Scottish Provident has acted fairly and reasonably in applying a 
proportionate remedy. This means the claim outcome will depend on what the underwriting 
decision would have been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance 
could have been offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer may amend 
the contract to reflect this. If it couldnt have offered cover at all, the insurer can void the 
policy and return the premiums paid from the outset.
Scottish Provident hasnt had the opportunity to underwrite the policy in 2001 as it would 
have, if it had known about Mrs As correct circumstances. It is therefore fair and in 
accordance with the policy terms for it to amend the cover now to reflect the terms it could 
actually have offered. That means I cant ask it to pay Mrs As claim in full, because Scottish 
Provident would not have been in a position to provide Mrs A with any critical illness benefit 
at all, had it known of her accurate medical history. 
I note that Mrs A has decided not to accept the policy amendments and by default received a 
premium refund. I believe this a fair and reasonable response in the circumstances.   
The only remaining point is that Mrs A has questioned why, after she did not contest the 
return of premiums in full, interest hasnt been added to the refund. Firstly, I should note that 
I agree Mrs A was caused upset by the manner in which Scottish Provident amended the 
policy going forwards without first seeking her consent; and I believe that a payment of £150 
was appropriate in the circumstances for the distress that she suffered. Otherwise, I do not 
agree that any interest ought to be awarded.  
If an award had been made by this service whereby we uphold a complaint about a refused 
claim and direct a payment to be made, we may include additional interest when redressing 
a loss a consumer has suffered. This separate interest award (in most cases, simple interest 
of 8% after April 1993) is intended to compensate a consumer for being deprived of money 
that he or she would otherwise have been able to use elsewhere, but for the business having 
made a mistake of some kind. 
A return of premiums would not routinely attract an award of interest in the event of voiding a 
policy on the grounds of misrepresentation unless a business has unreasonably delayed the 
refund or unfairly retained the money for some reason. That is because the requirement to 
void the policy arises once a misrepresentation has been confirmed, based on the evidence. 
Therefore, a business has not unreasonably deprived the consumer of his or her funds. Scottish Provident offered Mrs A the refund option at the time of the decision on 
misrepresentation. Because Mrs A complained about the actions with amending the policy, 
Scottish Provident waited for her instruction as to how she wished to proceed. It only voided 
the policy and made the premium refund as a default after it had given Mrs A appropriate 
notice. As it couldnt have made the refund sooner, no payment of interest was required. 
My final decision
Though I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs A, I do not believe The Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as Scottish Provident needs to do anything further. 
It has rightly compensated her for the upset it caused and otherwise correctly voided her 
policy on the grounds of misrepresentation, accordingly returning Mrs As policy premiums.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman