DRN-3352051
The complaint
Mrs K and the estate of Mr K complain about advice given by Openwork Limited when taking 
out a life and critical illness policy.
Mrs K and the estate of Mr K are using a representative to bring the complaint. For ease I 
will refer to all actions as being those of Mrs K.
What happened
After speaking with an adviser from Openwork in June 2018 Mr K took out a life and critical 
illness policy in joint names with Mrs K. This replaced a previous policy taken out in 2015 
which, although a different brand, was held with the same product provider.
In October 2018 Mr K sadly passed away and Mrs K made a claim on the policy. The claim 
was turned down by the product provider because Mr K hadnt declared a pre-existing illness 
of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) when applying for the policy.
Mrs K complained to Openwork saying that she didnt know that the previous policy had 
been cancelled and replaced with a new one. Openwork looked into what happened, and 
whilst expressing their condolences, didnt uphold the complaint. They did however offer 
£500 for the time taken to look at things and get back to her.
Mrs K disagreed and brought the complaint to this service where one of our Investigators 
looked into what happened. Initially our Investigator upheld the complaint saying they 
thought there was no need to replace the existing policy. 
Openwork provided some more information about what happened which our Investigator 
looked into. Having done so they reconsidered all of the information and didnt think the 
advice to change the policies was unsuitable. Also, they didnt think there was enough 
evidence to show that the adviser from Openwork was responsible for the claim on the new 
policy being declined. 
In response Mrs K disagreed saying:
- There was no need for a replacement policy
- The adviser didnt accurately record the attendees at the meeting
- Mr and Mrs Ks financial circumstances and policy cover requirements werent 
accurately recorded
- The adviser failed to ensure that Mr and Mrs K were fully informed of the 
replacement cover
- The adviser didnt meet the necessary standards of diligence when selling the 
replacement policy
- The replacement policy was mis-sold and Openwork should pay the claim according 
to the terms of the old policy and refund the difference in premiums paid
Because of this the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided a lot of information about the complaint and understandably both 
feel very strongly about what happened. I want to assure them that Ive read and carefully 
considered everything thats been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive 
summarised some aspects of what happened which reflects the informal nature of this 
service. And Ive concentrated on what I think are the key areas of the complaint and Im 
satisfied Ive captured the crux of the matter. 
Where the information about what happened is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as 
some of it is here, Ive come to a decision based on the balance of probabilities about what I 
think is most likely to have happened.
Some background
Mr and Mrs K had taken out a decreasing term life and critical illness policy in 2015 to cover 
a mortgage. 
In 2018 when the replacement policy was taken out Mr and Mrs K, though separated, were 
living together. Both the mortgage and the property were in the sole name of Mr K.
In June 2018 Mr K met with an adviser from Openwork after being contacted as part of a 
protection review. Mr K agreed to meet and was asked to bring along details of the balance 
of his mortgage.
During the meeting the adviser recommended that the existing policy be cancelled and 
replaced with a new one. The new policy provided a higher sum assured and had a wider 
range of cover for medical conditions.
Was there a need for the policy?
Ive considered if there was a need for a new policy. And looking at everything, I think there 
was a need due to a shortfall in cover for the outstanding mortgage. 
The sum assured of the existing policy was at that time around £170,000, and the adviser 
said he was told by Mr K that the outstanding mortgage balance was around £190,000. Mr K 
had been asked to bring along details of the outstanding mortgage, and it appears nothing 
was provided in writing by Mr K, so the adviser used the information given to him verbally, 
which was the amount of £190,000 with a remaining term of 12 years. 
I think its reasonable for the adviser to rely on the information given to him by Mr K. 
The new policy covered a wider range of 37 more medical conditions than the existing 
policy. I think this large increase in coverage, combined with the increase in sum assured, 
made the policy a suitable recommendation. I also note that there was an increase in 
premiums of around £20 per month. The adviser says Mr K was happy to accept this 
because of the increased level of cover.Why a replacement policy and not a top up?
Mrs K has asked about why a top up policy wasnt sold instead of a replacement policy.
The adviser says that Mr K was happy to proceed with the new policy, and increase in 
premiums, as the recommended policy was superior. Taking everything into account I think 
the policy sold was suitable. 
Information gathering in the meeting
The meeting took place in the office of the adviser who already held information about Mr 
and Mrs K as they had advised on the sale of the previous policy in 2015. 
What appears to have happened is that the adviser used a copy of the 2015 application to 
check the current details of Mr and Mrs K. This is shown by ticks on the form and that details 
about travel and mileage for Mr K were updated. 
So I think its most likely the adviser went through the questions on the form and checked 
them with Mr K making notes where they were told something had changed. It wouldve 
been up to Mr K to tell the adviser of any changes in circumstance when confirming the 
details. Since the adviser made some changes Im persuaded, on balance, that the relevant 
questions were asked. 
Mrs K says that the requirements werent accurately recorded, and I agree the record 
keeping couldve been better, however Im satisfied they were discussed.
I think its of particular note that the section of the form about Impairment  deep vein 
thrombosis has the date 04/05/2012 circled. To me this indicates that the previous issue of 
DVT was most likely discussed at the time. But there are no notes made on the form which 
suggests to me the adviser wasnt told any updated information about the DVT.
Suitability letter 2018
After their discussion the adviser provided a summary of the advice and recommendation in 
writing addressed to both Mr and Mrs K.
This letter said to contact the adviser if the letter or any supporting documentation didnt 
coincide with Mr and Mrs Ks view of the situation. 
So regardless of what was said in the meeting, even though I think on balance the issue of 
DVT was discussed, this letter gives warning about changing policies and the danger of not 
being covered. 
Im satisfied the adviser made it sufficiently clear that there were potential issues around 
medical conditions and changing the policies. This gave Mr and Mrs K the opportunity to 
raise any concerns.
Under the heading Additional policy information the letter said the adviser had sent the 
application to the product provider who would write to Mr and Mrs K. It said the product 
provider would confirm the cover being provided and any exclusions that could affect a claim 
such as a pre existing conditions. The letter went on to say:
It is important you use this as an opportunity to check the cover being offered in order to 
make sure that it meets your needs and is acceptable to you. If it is not acceptable, or you 
have any queries, you agreed to contact me.Having looked at the letter, which was given to Mr K to take away and read, Im satisfied all 
the relevant information was given. Also I think it drew attention to the fact that the product 
provider would be in touch and that the information they provided should be checked.
Mrs K not being at the meeting
Its agreed by all parties that Mrs K wasnt at the meeting and that Mr K spoke with the 
adviser.
Whilst it might be better if both parties were at a meeting like this, I dont think its unusual for 
only one party to attend. And I dont think the adviser acted incorrectly by taking instructions 
from just Mr K.
The adviser had dealt with both Mr and Mrs K before and so was aware of their 
circumstances. And the adviser had also said that he wasnt aware Mr and Mrs K had 
separated until sometime later. Had the adviser been aware of this then maybe he might 
have been better to take a different approach, but him not being aware means I think taking 
instruction from just Mr K was reasonable. 
At the meeting Mr K was given a data protection form to take home for Mrs K to sign and 
return. This form was returned with two signatures. Mrs K says she didnt sign the form 
however, Openwork says the signature matches the one they had on file. 
Its not my role to say whether I think the signature matches, or whether Mrs K signed the 
form. My role is to say whether I think Openwork acted fairly and reasonably on assuming 
the form had been signed by Mrs K and therefore made aware of the meeting. And 
considering the information and circumstances I think it was fair of them to assume this was 
the case.
Information from the product provider
After receiving the application for the policy the product provider contacted Mr and Mrs K on 
the email address they were given.
This said to check all the details and made clear Its really important you check through this 
document to make sure the information shown is correct. 
The Personal details confirmation letter had details of the lifestyle and medical history 
information that had been submitted. There is no mention of DVT for Mr K.
The letter said Please check all the information shown, especially any given on your behalf, 
and let us know if anything isnt correct. It went on to say, in bold text, Please pay particular 
attention to the health and lifestyle information. Its important all the information shown here 
is correct. If anything is wrong, we may amend, or cancel the policy, or we may not pay a 
claim.
So Im satisfied Mr and Mrs K were asked to check through the details.
Complaint handling
Openwork has offered Mrs K £500 for the delays in handling the complaint.
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity so isnt something that in this situation I can 
comment on. If Mrs K wishes to accept the £500, and if it hasnt already been paid, then she 
should contact Openwork directly.My overall thoughts
Having carefully considered all of the information, and everything that happened, Im 
satisfied the policy sold to Mr and Mrs K was suitable. I also think, on balance, that 
Openwork acted fairly and reasonably and didnt make any errors in submitting the 
application for the new policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and the 
estate of Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman