DRN-1322109
 
The complaint
Mr U complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly blocked a transaction.
What happened
Mr U says he was at his brothers wedding in October 2019 and tried to use his Barclays 
account to pay for wedding costs for £1,200. He says the transaction was blocked, and he 
spoke to Barclays fraud department to explain that the attempted transaction was genuine. 
But was told he needed to attend a Barclays branch with identification. Mr U says that was 
impossible that day as it was a Sunday. He says he was caused embarrassment as a result 
of what took place and couldn't enjoy the wedding. Mr U would like compensation of £1,200.
Barclays says certain attempted transactions are flagged for security checks and that is what 
took place here. It says it had concerns about Mr U's account and could not lift account 
blocks until he attended a branch with identification. Barclays has offered £25 as a gesture 
of goodwill for the costs in attending its branch. 
Mr U didn't accept that view and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and didn't uphold it. The investigator didn't think Barclays had made a mistake by 
following its fraud procedure where it had security concerns and had acted reasonably in the 
circumstances.
Mr U doesn't accept that view and says he understands why the transaction was picked up 
for security concerns. But he provided enough information to confirm it was a genuine 
transaction by him. He would like Barclays to review its fraud policy and wishes to be 
compensated for what took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr U will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate that the blocked transaction took place at his brothers wedding.
I make clear to Mr U that we are not the regulator of banks and building societies. So that 
means we can't tell Barclays to review its fraud and security policies as Mr U would like us to 
do. It also means that we can't tell a business what its fraud and security measures should 
be or how it uses them. I think such matters are for a business to decide upon when 
exercising its commercial judgement and not something I can fairly interfere in.
There is no question that security and fraud measures are necessary due to the ever 
increasing threat of accounts being fraudulently accessed. But I accept that on occasions 
legitimate transaction such as the one Mr U attempted, result in fraud measures being 
applied to the attempted transaction and to the account. I also accept that customers of 
banks and building societies in those circumstances are caused inconvenience. And I have no doubt Mr U was caused such inconvenience at the wedding. But I don't think that means 
Barclays made a mistake or acted unfairly and I think it was trying to protect Mr U's account 
integrity.
I have also looked at Barclays account terms and conditions which I think Mr U would have 
agreed to when the account was opened. And I can see that Barclays make clear that it may 
not process a transaction where it has grounds to suspect fraud. So  I don't think Barclays 
made a mistake here by concluding there were such concerns and I can see that Mr U says 
he understands why this transaction was picked up by Barclays. I appreciate Mr U says 
Barclays ought to have been able to work out that it was him that tried to make the 
transaction and could have carried out checks that would have provided proof of his identity. 
But I'm satisfied that for the reasons I have explained it's up to Barclays to make such 
decisions and in what circumstances it removes account blocks.
Overall I'm satisfied that Barclays hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly and so I can't fairly 
order it to pay Mr U the compensation he would like. In any event we would normally make a 
compensation award based on the level of impact on a consumer and I don't think Mr U 
suffered any financial loss here. It is up to Mr U if he wishes to accept Barclays goodwill 
gesture offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman