DRN-2980867
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about his mortgage account with Santander UK Plc. Mr H has 
complained about the following matters:
he believes Santander overcharged him interest on his mortgage over a period which 
ended in 2008;
in 2007 he took out further borrowing but instead of the £5,000 he said he wanted, Mr H 
says Santander advanced him £50,000 by mistake;
On 17 August 2021 I issued a decision explaining that these two issues were out of time 
under our rules and so we have no jurisdiction to consider them. I will not refer to those 
matters in this decision.
Mr H has also complained that:
the mortgage term came to an end in May 2017 but Santander is not giving him enough 
time to renovate and redecorate the property so he can sell it;
he is upset that Santander has threatened legal action to take possession of the property 
and added legal costs to his account.
Mr H wants Santander to withdraw the threat of repossession, which he says is in breach of 
mortgage regulation and court protocol, and to refund solicitors fees. Mr H also says he is 
prepared to consider accepting a term extension on the mortgage.
What happened
In 2006 Mr H took out a flexible mortgage with Santander (then known as Abbey). He 
borrowed a total of £318,750 over a term of 11 years on an interest-only basis. The banks 
records show that Mr H said his repayment method for the mortgage was to be an 
investment-linked policy.  
In May 2007 Mr H applied for a drawdown of £50,000, which completed on 15 May 2007, the 
funds being credited to Mr Hs current account. This took the account balance to £369,414 
as at that date.
The mortgage term expired on 25 May 2017, when the outstanding balance (at that point just 
over £370,000 and now about £372,000) became due and repayable to Santander. A period 
of forbearance was granted, as Mr H said he was decorating and selling the property. 
Santander noted in December 2017  six months after the mortgage had expired  that the 
property was on the market. But by March 2018 it was no longer being marketed. By this 
time Mr H wasnt prepared to talk to Santander by telephone and said he preferred to 
correspond by letter. 
In January 2019 Mr H told Santander that he would be putting the property on the market, 
but that it needed some redecoration which would cost between £30,000 and £40,000. As a 
result, Mr H said he could only carry out the work bit by bit. 
In May 2019 Santander noted that the property wasnt on the market. The bank wrote to 
Mr H for an update but he didnt respond. In June 2019 Santander wrote to Mr H to say that, 
due to the length of time that had elapsed, legal action was being considered. As no 
response was received Santander instructed its solicitors in June 2019. 
In August 2019 Mr H raised a complaint with Santanders solicitors. He was unhappy that the 
solicitors had been instructed, as he thought Santander had agreed to allow him more time 
to decorate his property and market it for sale. Mr H thought that Santander was in breach of 
the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB), and the 
Mortgage Pre-Action Protocol. (The full title is the Council of Mortgage Lenders Pre-Action
Protocol for Possession Claims based on Mortgage or Home Purchase Plan Arrears in
Respect of Residential Property, but I will refer to it as MPAP.)
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. The bank was satisfied it had tried to engage with 
Mr H about repayment of the mortgage, but he wouldnt discuss the matter with Santander 
for some time. Although Mr H had said the property was on the market, it didnt appear that a 
sale was progressing and Santander said that at times when Mr H said he was marketing 
the property, there was no listing for it on the main property websites.
In March 2020, after receiving a letter before action from Santanders solicitors, Mr H 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service where an investigator looked at the 
complaint (and asked Santander to put legal action on hold). 
Mr H said he thought Santander had acted unfairly by instructing solicitors and that the bank 
had refused to consider a term extension or a remortgage. Mr H is also unhappy that legal 
costs have been added to the mortgage.
The investigator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong in its handling of the 
account. The history of the matter persuaded her that Santander had given Mr H a long 
period of time to sell the property, but with no progress in two years, it was reasonable for 
Santander to refer the matter to its solicitors. There was also no record of Mr H applying for 
a term extension or a re-mortgage; rather, the banks records reflected Mr Hs intention to 
sell the property and his desire for more time to do this.
Mr H asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision, but has 
provided no further evidence or arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I note that Mr H doesnt dispute that his mortgage term has come to an end or that the 
remaining balance needs to be paid to Santander. The crux of Mr Hs complaint is that he 
doesnt think Santander has treated him fairly. Specifically, he believes the bank should give 
him more time to renovate or decorate the property for sale, and that instructing solicitors in 
2019 was premature and unreasonable.
I can see from Santanders contact notes that Mr H was reluctant to engage with the bank 
initially. He later said he would communicate with the bank by letter. However, Santander 
says that Mr H hasnt replied to correspondence asking for updates on the sale of the 
property. Theres been no application for a formal term extension or for a re-mortgage. Mr H believes that Santander has breached MCOB and MPAP by not taking steps to work 
with him in relation to repayment of the mortgage. Ive thought about what Mr H has said 
about this. 
Having done so, I think Mr H has misunderstood the position. MPAP does not give guidance 
to the courts to halt possession claims. What it does do is encourage mortgage lenders to 
regard a possession claim as a last resort, and to work with borrowers in financial difficulties 
to try to reach agreement without the need for proceedings. MPAP follows the mortgage 
lenders obligations under MCOB 13. This sets out what the industry considers to be good 
practice when dealing with borrowers in arrears.
Under MCOB, where a borrower is in arrears, lenders are required to explore ways to 
resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem that created the arrears to begin with is 
one that looks to be short-term and capable of being resolved.
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such transferring a 
mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period 
of time or capitalisation of arrears. Balanced against that is the lenders obligation to ensure 
that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. 
Mr H believes Santander has failed to take note of these provisions and, as a result, has 
treated him unfairly.
But MCOB 13 and MPAP only cover arrears situations. An end of term interest-only 
mortgage where the capital hasnt been repaid is not an arrears situation; it is a breach of 
contract. MPAP is clear at clause 1.2 that the protocol does not alter the parties rights and 
obligations. In this case, Mr H is obliged under the mortgage contract to repay the capital, in 
full and on demand, at the end of the mortgage term.
So although Ive noted what Mr H has said  that Santander has breached MCOB and 
MPAP   neither MPAP nor MCOB apply here, because this is an expired interest-only 
mortgage, not a mortgage with a term to run that has fallen into arrears.
I think in all the circumstances Santander has shown considerable forbearance in relation to 
the length of time it has allowed Mr H to sell the property. It wasnt until 18 months after the 
mortgage term had expired that Mr H told Santander he intended to carry out extensive work 
on the property that he could only do piecemeal. No timescale or schedule of works has 
been provided to Santander. And I note that what Mr H told Santander about this in January 
2019 is at odds with his assurances soon after the term had ended that the property was on 
the market for sale.
In all the circumstances, I dont think Santander has treated Mr H unfairly. We are now more 
than four years on from expiry of the mortgage term, and Santander is entitled to repayment 
of the debt. I appreciate this has been Mr Hs home for a number of years and I understand 
his reluctance to sell it. But I have to be fair to all parties. I cant see that it would be fair or 
reasonable to order Santander to allow Mr H an indefinite period of time to sell the property 
so that he can carry out extensive work to the property as and when it suits him.
In the circumstances, I can see no basis on which I can find that Santander has acted 
unreasonably or been unfair to Mr H. This means that I will not be ordering Santander to 
cease legal action or to remove legal costs added to the mortgage.
As far as a term extension is concerned, Santanders policy, in line with the regulators 
guidance, is to offer a term extension of 12 months for repayment of an expired interest-only mortgage. Mr H has had an informal term extension of over four years. I dont think its 
unreasonable for Santander now to expect repayment.
I have no doubt that Mr H has every intention of repaying his mortgage. But his engagement 
with Santander has always been on his terms, offering sporadic explanations for the delays 
in selling the property and promises of sale in the future. Time has passed and the debt has 
remained unpaid, leaving Santander to chase Mr H to ask when it can expect repayment. 
Where Santander has asked for information that, in my opinion, is reasonable, this hasnt 
been forthcoming.
I note that legal action was put on hold while we were looking at the complaint. Proceedings 
have not yet been issued. Mr H has suggested to the investigator that he will be raising new 
issues with Santander about what he claims are irregularities in his account balance since 
2008. 
It would be remiss of me if I did not make it clear to Mr H that, even if he makes another 
complaint, Santander is not obliged to put legal action on hold  either while it investigates 
the complaint or if the complaint is escalated to the Financial Ombudsman Service. This is 
because it is not disputed by Mr H that he is required to repay the account balance. 
Therefore if, after the property is sold, any accounting error in Mr Hs favour comes to light 
(whether through Santanders own investigation or by an account audit commissioned by 
Mr H or in an investigation by the Financial Ombudsman Service) this would simply result in 
a refund to Mr H of any overpayment. It would not mean that recovery of the debt has to be 
postponed for another year or two while this is looked into.
Taking possession is a last resort, but its not unreasonable for Santander to expect the debt 
to be repaid and to commence possession proceedings if it is not. I wouldnt want Mr H to be 
under any misunderstanding that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative to the 
court as a means of suspending legal action where Santander is legitimately entitled to seek 
recovery of the debt.
However, I think Santander should allow Mr H a final period of forbearance of six months 
from the date of this decision before any recovery action is taken. This will give Mr H time to 
sell the property, which he has been planning to do since May 2017. This will also give Mr H 
the opportunity to see a financial adviser, so he can put in place alternative sources of 
finance, such as an equity release mortgage, a later life mortgage, or a conventional 
remortgage, if he wants to remain in the property and his financial adviser is able to find a 
suitable mortgage for Mr H.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. But, after careful consideration of 
everything thats happened, Im satisfied Santander hasnt done anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman