The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) hasnt refunded all of his expenses following a 
fraudulent transaction on his account.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr M has said the transaction occurred as a result of some IT issues with TSB. But I
havent seen any evidence thats the case and TSB has confirmed that this
transaction is not connected to any system issues it experienced and believes Mr Ms
online banking details could have been obtained via a scam.
TSB refunded the transaction on the second working day after Mr M reported it  and
a day after it should have done but have already compensated Mr M a total of £300
for the delay in refunding the transactions, which I believe is a fair reflection of the
distress Mr M would have been caused as a result of the delay in refunding the
transaction.
Mr M says he wasnt able to travel abroad on the day of the fraudulent transaction as
he had intended to as he needed to stay in the country to deal with the issue. But I
dont think this was caused by the error made by TSB in the situation. Even if TSB
had refunded the funds on the day it should have, this was still after the first flight had
left  and therefore I dont think it would have changed Mr Ms decision not to travel.
I can understand why Mr M chose not to travel but I havent seen any evidence to
show that Mr M was unable to travel as a result of this issue  rather this appears to
have been a choice he made as he was worried about the situation. Mr M has
confirmed that he had alternative funds he could have used to travel if he had chosen
to so I dont think the losses Mr M has stated he incurred were as a result of TSBs
error in not refunding the transaction on the correct day.
DRN-1629827And lastly, while Mr M says the flight was non-refundable, I note that he didnt
attempt to speak with any of the airlines to discuss the situation. Therefore, Mr M
hasnt attempted to mitigate his losses, which I would have expected him to do.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ms frustrations, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman