DRN-4208523
The complaint
Mr H complains about Lloyds Bank PLC.
He says that he was the victim of a scam, and that Lloyds didnt do enough to protect him 
from financial loss as a result.
What happened
In August 2021, Mr H began making payments to T after speaking with an advisor called D. 
Mr H had previous dealings with D, when he invested with a separate investment company. 
Mr H says that D was a scammer, and that he was manipulated into making payments to T 
and has lost a significant amount of money as a result.
Mr H said that he lost over £100,000  but Lloyds has shown that he made payments of 
£67,730 to T through his Lloyds bank account and received payments of £24,348.07.
He says that Lloyds should have stopped the payments as they were unusual for him, and 
that he did not authorise the payments. 
Mr H made a complaint to Lloyds about the payments he says it should not have allowed to 
leave his account. Lloyds didnt uphold his complaint, so he brought it to this Service.
Our investigator considered things but didnt think that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. 
They said that there wasnt enough evidence that Mr H had been the victim of a scam  and 
that it looked like Mr H had lost money through a high-risk investment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as 
our Investigator. I know that this will be disappointing for Mr H, so Ill explain why.
Was Mr H the victim of a scam?
Firstly, I should say that I dont think that Mr H has shown here that he has been the victim of 
a scam. Mr H alleges that he was dealing with D initially saying that D was an affiliate of T  
but then that he wasnt. So, it isnt clear if D is a genuine financial advisor or not. 
T was, and still is a legitimate company which is registered by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). I understand that there is a clone of T which is also noted on the FCA 
register  but Mr H made his payments to T directly, and not the clone. He also received 
significant amounts of money back from T when he asked for it  which would be very 
unusual for an investment scam.
The evidence I have been provided suggests that D set Mr H up an account with T, and then 
Mr H provided D with his card details in order to fund the investment account. Mr H hasnt 
provided anything to show that D didnt invest the money on Mr Hs behalf or transferred the 
money into an account in his own name. So, Mr H hasnt been able to show that he has lost 
money as part of a scam. Instead, the evidence suggests that he gave D authority to invest 
on his behalf, but that the investment has not turned out to be as lucrative as he had hoped.
Did Mr H authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr H isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe. Accordingly, Ive considered 
whether Mr H authorised the payments  and so, whether he made the payment himself or 
whether he gave someone else permission to do this on her behalf.
I am satisfied that on balance, Mr H did authorise the payments that were made. The PSRs 
state that consent is given when a customer uses the steps agreed for making a transaction 
 and its also possible to provide consent for someone to act on your behalf.
While Mr H says that he didnt authorise the payments made to T, he did provide D with his 
card details to trade on his behalf  which is what happened here as Mr H gave D apparent 
authority to complete the transactions on his behalf.
I understand that Mr H also says he didnt realise D was making more payments to T than he 
thought  but I find it unlikely that Mr H didnt notice the payments leaving his account. 
Lloyds has shown that Mr H checked his online banking almost daily during the period that 
the payments were made, so I think if he hadnt expected these payments to be leaving his 
account, he would have noticed them, and got in touch with Lloyds. These were not small 
payments that could easily have been overlooked. 
Should Lloyds have intervened?
One of Mr Hs main complaint points is that Lloyds should have stopped the payments being 
made, and therefore stopped the loss that Mr H has suffered. He says that it had a duty to 
protect him from fraud and scams.
While I agree that Lloyds does have a duty to protect its customers from fraud or scams, it 
has no obligation to protect its customers from bad bargains or to provide investment advice 
 and as Ive explained above, Mr H hasnt shown that he has been the victim of fraud or a 
scam. So, I dont consider Lloyds was under any obligation to prevent these payments from 
being made.
Recovery of the payments
Ive also considered whether Lloyds ought to have tried to recover the payments that Mr H 
made, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via the bank raising a
chargeback dispute. However, in these circumstances, Mr H authorised payments to pay a 
legitimate business. So, he wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim in these 
circumstances because the company he paid had ostensibly provided the services as 
intended. Therefore, I do not think Lloyds were under any obligation to raise a chargeback 
for Mr H either. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman