DRN-4328403
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about various aspects of a second charge mortgage (secured loan) 
they took out with Norton Home Loans Limited (Norton) in May 2017.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a loan of £33,000 secured on their property in May 2017 to be repaid 
over 16 years. They complain that Norton has failed to provide them with statements which 
accurately portray their secured loan account and that there are errors on the statements. 
They say that fees, charges and additional interest have been added to the account and that 
there is no explanation for why these have been incurred. Mr and Mrs H also complain that 
direct debits werent taken on the agreed date which resulted in the direct debit being 
returned and charges being placed on the account. In respect of the direct debit for June 
2021, they say that they did not cancel this as suggested by Norton.
Mr and Mrs H say they fell into arrears in February 2019 due to financial difficulties but 
Norton then nearly doubled the direct debit amount to try and catch up with the arrears. They 
say that they find it incredible that it would be an acceptable solution to increase a monthly 
payment for someone already in financial hardship as it would only place them in further 
hardship. Mr and Mrs H say that Norton eventually agreed to reduce the direct debit to 
around £430 a month, which was the contractual monthly payment (CMP) of around £380 
plus £50 on top of this towards the arrears.
Mr and Mrs H say that this carried on for some time until Norton called to discuss the 
capitalisation of the arrears, which it said it had to offer to help customers struggling 
financially to get back on track. Mr and Mrs H questioned why this had taken two years and 
were told that customers must make six months continuous payments towards arrears 
before they would offer this facility. Mr and Mrs H have questioned why Norton didnt offer 
this earlier and why they made 22 months of payments towards the arrears before they were 
offered help. They say that the arrears were cleared before the case was due to be heard in 
court, yet the court hearing still went ahead, therefore they should not have to pay the legal 
costs and the amount of £1,082.80 charged for this is not fair and just.
Mr and Mrs H say that the lack of correct information on the statement has led to severe 
confusion and placed them into arrears. They say Nortons poor practices have placed them 
in severe financial hardship to ensure the loan repayments were paid. The threatening 
letters from Norton regarding repossession have caused mental stress especially when Mr 
and Mrs H feel that this has been caused by mistakes on Nortons part. They would 
therefore like all interest and charges to be refunded and for the arrears to be cleared since 
the capitalisation as these have not been payable due to incorrect figures. They would also 
like financial compensation for bounced direct debits and bank charges incurred throughout 
the period of the loan. 
Norton says that any interest or charges to the account are in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs agreement and its Tariff of Charges. It says that the figures are 
correct and that it has provided a full breakdown of the these to Mr and Mrs H. Norton also 
says that it believes it has treated Mr and Mrs H fairly at all times and remains keen to help 
them. 
Norton says that Mr and Mrs H have continued to dispute various charges despite these 
being explained to them. Norton says that a software issue caused an anomalous figure to 
be displayed for 1 May 2020 on a partial statement sent to Mr and Mrs H. However, it says 
this didnt impact the balance or correct figures.  
In relation to the capitalisation, Norton said that capitalisation wasnt offered earlier due to an 
oversight as this would normally be offered following six consecutive payments being made 
on time.
Norton says that Mr and Mrs H have subsequently stated that they are unwilling to pay as 
they believe all of their statements are incorrect. However, it says the account was already in 
arrears prior to this issue. Norton says that Mr and Mrs H have refused to make payments 
on various occasions citing various reasons. It says that this has resulted in additional 
charges being incurred and further action as Mr H has refused to engage with it.
Our investigator looked into this complaint and found that Norton had generally not treated 
Mr and Mrs H unfairly. However, he found that a clerical error on one of the statements had 
caused sufficient concern for Mr and Mrs H to question the accuracy of the statement 
transactions. The investigator also found that Norton failed to offer capitalisation after the 
sixth consecutive payment and that Mr and Mrs H continued to make the payments for a 
further 11 months before capitalisation was offered. This meant they paid additional interest 
on the arrears and paid higher repayments over that period. 
In order to put things right, the investigator recommended that Norton should review whether 
Mr and Mrs H would have been better off if the arrears had been capitalised after the sixth 
consecutive payment and, if so, refund the difference. He also thought Norton should pay Mr 
and Mrs H £200 for distress and inconvenience caused for failing to offer capitalisation when 
it should along with the impact the clerical error had on their view of the accuracy of their 
statements. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. They say 
that the legal costs are not fair or just.as the reason the case was heard in court after the 
arrears were paid was down to Norton and not them. So they say they should be refunded 
the payments they have made towards the legal costs. They also ask for £150 in costs for 
loss of earnings, fuel and parking for Mr H having to attend court.
Mr and Mrs H also say that the two clerical errors found by the investigator show wrongdoing 
on Nortons part so they have little confidence that any refund will be calculated correctly. Mr 
and Mrs H question why Norton didnt offer the redress recommended by the investigator 
when providing its final response and say that, had it been more understanding and 
reasonable at the time of the complaint, Mr H wouldnt have felt the need to withhold 
payment and a lot of financial and emotional stress could have been avoided. Mr and Mrs H 
say that Norton also signed the terms of the agreement and they feel that the clerical errors 
mean that it has failed to abide by these. They therefore say that it would be fair for Norton 
to charge no interest, charges or fees on the loan.
Norton has also responded to the view. In relation to the capitalisation, it says that Mr and 
Mrs H hadnt made 17 consecutive payments to the account at the time of capitalisation as 
the payment due in March 2020 wasnt made until 14 April 2020 which meant that 
capitalisation wasnt an option at that stage as six months payments hadnt been made 
consecutively. Therefore, the six-month period had to re-set. It says that this policy is set by 
its funders and it isnt able to deviate from this.
For the sake of clarity, I should say that the complaint relating to Mrs Hs bank details being 
passed to Mr H was dealt with in separate complaint by this service so I wont be considering 
it here. Likewise, although our investigator dealt with whether the loan had been mis-sold, Mr 
and Mrs H havent asked this service to look into this against Norton. They were advised 
when making an additional complaint to Norton about this aspect that this should be directed to the broker who sold the loan as Norton wasnt responsible for the sale. Therefore I wont 
be considering any complaint about mis-sale in this decision.
I set out in my provisional decision dated 2 August 2023 (reproduced below) why I was 
minded to partially uphold the complaint and direct that Norton should remove from Mr and 
Mrs Hs account each of the unpaid payment fees of £15 for 4 August, 1 September, 1 
October and 1 November 2021, the LPC Agent fee of £120 and the fee for the Consent 
order of £108 and recalculate the account as if these had not been charged.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence by 30 August 2023.
Norton responded to say that it accepted the provisional decision. Mr and Mr H made no 
further submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision dated 2 August 2023, I remain 
of the view that Norton should remove the fees specified above from Mr and Mrs Hs 
account. 
In my provisional decision I set out the following:
Having looked at the evidence I disagree with the investigators view and I've 
explained my reasons further below in respect of the individual issues raised. I have 
not commented on each individual point raised in this decision and have dealt with 
the broad concerns raised by Mr and Mrs H. However, I would like to reassure them 
that I have considered all of the issues they have raised when reaching my decision.
Errors in statements
Mr and Mrs H have complained about a number of the figures contained on the 
statement of transactions and how the balance and arrears have been calculated at 
various times, which they say are errors. I have addressed some of the specific 
points raised below but I dont intend to address each incorrect figure they have 
mentioned separately here. However, I want to reassure Mr and Mrs H that I have 
considered all of their submissions and the statement as a whole in determining 
whether it is accurate. 
Mr and Mrs H say that the account has shown on the statement as being in arrears 
even though payments were made on the agreed date. They refer to the entry of 1 
June 2017 which shows interest of £308.96 but then shows £380.37 arrears despite 
the payment being made on time.
In relation to the interest charged on 1 June 2017, I can see that the first transaction 
on that date (at the outset of the loan) was a debit of £308.96 for interest. This 
increases the balance by that amount and shows a figure of £380.37 in the Arrears 
column of the statement. The second transaction of the same date shows a payment 
received of £380.37. This reduces the balance by that amount and the figure in the 
Arrears column then reverts to zero. 
These two transactions are essentially simultaneous, so monthly interest is added to 
the account at the same time the CMP is made. So, although the arrears column 
contains a figure, this is balanced out when the CMP is made on the same date. By 
way of comparison, I can see that for the two transactions on 1 January 2018, they 
have been added to the statement the other way around, so it appears the mortgage is in credit by £380.37 when the CMP is paid but this is again balanced out by the 
interest debited on the same date. 
I dont think there is anything unusual or incorrect in the way this has been recorded 
in the transaction statements and I am satisfied that this is in accordance with the 
loan agreement and with standard mortgage practice.
The CMP is more than the interest charged each month as it covers some of the 
capital borrowed in addition to the interest. Due to the way this is calculated over the 
term of the loan, the proportion of interest making up the CMP will be higher at the 
beginning than the end of the loan, and I can see this is reflected in Mr and Mrs Hs 
statement. 
Mr and Mrs H have also complained that the entry on the statement of 1 May 2020 
shows the arrears as £972.66 but on 31 May 2020 a payment of £430.37 was made 
which brought the arrears to £987.03. Mr and Mrs H spoke with someone from 
Norton to explain the discrepancies who explained that this was a clerical error which 
didnt affect the balance and that a new statement had been sent out with the 
incorrect entry missing. Mr and Mrs H explained that they would not agree to repay 
the arrears at that time due to the discrepancies. 
Norton says that a software issue caused an anomalous figure to be displayed on a 
statement sent to Mr and Mrs H. However, it says that this was not included when 
calculating the balance and didnt affect the overall outstanding balance or correct 
figures.
Ive looked at the statement which Mr and Mrs H refer to which starts on 1 May 2020 
and shows that the arrears on that date were £972.66. On 31 May 2020, a direct 
debit of £430.37 was taken and the arrears shows as £987.03. The full statement of 
account shows the arrears to be £1,417.40 as of 30 April 2020 and the next entry 
after this shows that, once the payment is made on 31 May 2020, this reduces to 
£987.03.
Norton is unable to explain how the figure shown on the partial statement for 1 May 
2020 was calculated, save that it was the result of a software issue. I can see from 
the full statement that no transactions actually took place on the account on 1 May 
2020. So it seems possible that because this date was selected as the start date of 
the partial statement to be sent to Mr and Mrs H, the opening balance and arrears 
were somehow calculated taking into account daily interest as of that date and that 
this was simply a snapshot of the figure owed on that specific date. 
In any event, whilst it is not clear how the figure on the partial statement has been 
calculated, I am satisfied that the full statement of transactions gives an accurate 
reflection of the balance and arrears. Further, I am satisfied that the balance and 
arrears were unaffected by the snapshot figure provided as the amount of arrears 
owed on 1 May 2020.
More generally, Mr and Mrs H have said that the figures shown on the statements 
dont add up as the cumulative arrears balance shown does not accurately reflect the 
amounts which should have been added. For example, they say that on 4 August 
2021, the arrears are stated as £822.60 and an amount of £274.16 was due on 31 
August 2021 which should have given a cumulative arrears balance of £1,096.76 but 
this is shown as £1,211.40. 
I can see that the figure of £274.16 debited on 31 August 2021 was for interest. But 
the CMP due on that date was £388.80. The CMP is made up of both some of the 
capital borrowed and interest, the amount for which is calculated at the start of the 
loan. As the CMP wasnt paid on 31 August 2021, the arrears increased by £388.80. 
This is why the arrears increased from £822.60 to £1,211.40 and I am satisfied this is accurate. There are a number of other similar examples provided by Mr and Mrs H. 
As set out above, I do not intend to go through each of these separately but the same 
principle applies.
I can see that Mr H asked for someone to go through the fees with him and that 
Norton agreed to do this. Ive listened to the calls where Norton explained some of 
the entries on the statements to Mr H at his request including various fees and the 
outstanding balance; the anomalous figure from 1 May 2020; the fact that where 
there were two transactions on the same day these balanced out and were correct; 
about what constituted arrears and the fact that the CMP becomes arrears if not paid 
in accordance with the contract; the costs added on top form part of the arrears as 
they are owed in line with the terms; that the arrears were not extra and were already 
included in the outstanding balance when the arrears were capitalised (and were just 
the part which should have been paid but hadnt been). 
In light of the above, I am satisfied that the figures shown on the full statement of 
transactions are accurate and that the balance and arrears have been calculated 
correctly in line with the transactions which took place. Although it is unclear how the 
arrears figure in the partial statement for 1 May 2020 was calculated, this had no 
effect on the overall balance and arrears owed.
I accept that Mr H had queries about the figures, but I can see that Norton attempted 
to explain the statements to Mr H. Whilst I understand that Mr H didnt accept 
Nortons explanation, I dont think Norton treated him unfairly and I dont think Mr and 
Mrs Hs concerns about the accuracy of the figures shown on the statements are 
made out. Likewise, I am satisfied that the fact Mr and Mrs H didnt accept Nortons 
explanation in relation to the figures didnt mean they were no longer liable to pay 
their CMP in line with the loan agreement. Therefore, I wont be asking Norton to do 
anything further in respect of this.
Payment date
Mr and Mrs H have also complained that the statement of account from 2 May 2017 
to 30 November 2021 says that the payment due date for that period was 31st of the 
month. However, they say that some direct debits were taken out before 31st.
I can see from the offer documents that at the outset of the loan the payment date 
agreed was 1st of every month. The contact notes show that in February 2018 the 
direct debit was cancelled and Mr H indicated he wanted to set up the new direct 
debit for 10th of every month and that is reflected in the statement transactions from 
March 2018. On 9 January 2019, Mr H cancelled his direct debit and it was set back 
up again with the payment date being changed to 28th of every month. This is again 
reflected in the statement transactions from February 2019. On 4 June 2019, Mr H 
wanted the payment date to be changed to the last day of every month and I can see 
this was changed and reflected in the transaction statements from June 2019.
The statement of account referred to by Mr and Mrs H would have shown the 
payment date at that time, which was the last day of every month, and not what had 
been agreed prior to that. Having looked at the statement of transactions, I am 
satisfied that the direct debits were all taken on the date as agreed at that time. 
Direct debit for June 2021
Norton says that the direct debit for the CMP due on 30 June 2021 was cancelled by 
Mr and Mrs H. It therefore charged a fee of £15 as the CMP was returned unpaid. Mr and Mrs H have disputed this and said that they didnt cancel it; it also appears that 
they made enquiries with their bank about this.
Ive seen documentation provided by Norton to show that they were advised by 
BACS that the direct debit for Mr and Mrs Hs loan repayment had been cancelled by 
the payer on 29 June 2021.
I can see from the contact notes that Mr H spoke with Norton on 12 July 2021 and 
said that until proof was provided that they had cancelled the direct debit, he refused 
to make the payment. A copy of the BACs notification was sent to Mr H advising that 
this is what was received by Norton and that this was why the £15 fee had been 
charged. 
On 14 July 2021 Norton contact Mr H again. He said he hadnt received the email 
with the evidence that the direct debit had been cancelled and said he would not pay 
anything until this was sorted. Norton asked if he could pay the CMP and then the fee 
could be discussed once he had spoken to the bank but Mr H said that he wasnt 
paying anything. He was advised that a further £15 fee would be due as the payment 
was over ten days late and he reiterated that he wasnt paying anything. No 
payments were made after this until February 2022 when the arrears were cleared 
shortly before a court hearing for possession was listed.
I accept that Mr and Mrs H disputed that they had cancelled the direct debit in June 
2021 and that they therefore should not have to pay the £15 fee in respect of this. 
However, Norton wasnt responsible for the cancellation and if there was any dispute 
about the direct debit being cancelled in error then this should have been directed to 
Mr and Mrs Hs bank.
I can see that Norton was instructed by BACS that the direct debit had been 
cancelled by Mr and Mrs H. It was therefore acting on the information it had received, 
which it provided to Mr H when requested. I can also see that Norton suggested to 
Mr H that he pay the CMP and that the £15 fee could be discussed once he had 
spoken to the bank but he refused to pay anything, to set up a new direct debit or to 
pay the CMP by another method. 
The £15 fee was applied in line with the terms and conditions (which I have dealt with 
in more detail below) based on the information received by Norton. I am therefore 
satisfied that Norton hasnt acted unreasonably in respect of this issue. And I am 
satisfied that the application of the £15 fee didnt mean that Mr and Mrs H were no 
longer liable to pay their CMP in line with the loan agreement.  
Fees, charges and additional interest
Mr and Mrs H say that there are a number of transactions on the account which they 
dont feel are correct. They say that the terms and conditions provided by Norton 
dont offer any explanation for the charges incurred and there is no reference to any 
penalty interest in the terms and conditions or in the offer document. 
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the mortgage which formed part of Mr and Mrs 
Hs loan agreement with Norton. These have been signed by Mr and Mrs H on 29 
April 2017.
In relation to the additional interest, clause 2.6 of the terms sets out You shall pay 
interest at the Rate of Interest on any amount not paid by its due date. Clause 3.5 
states All charges and costs added to the account will have interest added at the 
Rate of Interest until such time as they are paid. 
The contractual monthly payment (CMP) for Mr and Mrs Hs loan was calculated on 
the basis that all of the payments were made on time and in accordance with the agreement. As Mr and Mrs H didnt make the payments on time and were in arrears 
on their mortgage, additional interest has been charged on the amount they were in 
arrears over the period they were in arrears. Likewise, when other charges were 
added to the account, these would also attract interest.
Ive looked at the statement of transactions on the account and I can see that the 
additional interest charges have only been added where Mr and Mrs H were in 
arrears. So I am satisfied that this is in accordance with the terms setting out that 
interest would be payable on any amount not paid by its due date and on charges 
and costs added to the account. 
Mr and Mrs H say that other entries listed as costs have been accrued for varying 
amounts with no explanation as to why they have been accrued. They say none of 
the costs seem to match with the tariff of charges.
Clause 4.1 of the terms sets out If you fail to comply with any provisions of the 
Agreement between you and us, you will be liable to pay Default Charges. Missing 
your Monthly Payments could have severe consequences including potential 
repossession of your home It can also make your credit more expensive as you 
may incur Default Charges which were not anticipated at the outset. The definition of 
a default charge is set out at clause 1.8 of the terms as being a charge payable by 
you if you default on your obligations under the Agreement as specified in the 
Binding Mortgage Offer and detailed in our Tariff of Charges
Ive also looked at the Tariff of Charges which was in place at the time Mr and Mrs H 
took the loan out in 2017 until June 2021. These charges include a Monthly 
Administration Fee of £49 which is payable each month you do not make your 
contractual monthly instalment within 10 calendar days of the regular due date, to 
cover the costs associated with collecting payment. This fee will not be charged if 
any payment arrangement is agreed and maintained. We do not charge an additional 
fee in the event of an unpaid cheque or direct debit. 
I can see on the statement of transactions for Mr and Mrs Hs account that a charge 
of £49 has been added to the account on a number of occasions over this period and 
I am satisfied that these have all been occasions where the CMP had not been paid 
within ten days of the contractual payment date and are therefore in accordance with 
the agreement.
The tariff also included a Payment Arrangement Fee of £35 which is payable if we 
discuss and arrange a new payment plan with you for repayment of your outstanding 
arrears.
The statement shows that Mr and Mrs H were charged this fee on 6 March 2019. 
This was because Mr H agreed to split the arrears over the following four months at 
that stage following an income and expenditure assessment. Mr H was advised of 
the fee over the phone at the time and sent a letter. Another charge of £35 was 
applied on 10 September 2019 as an income and expenditure assessment (I&E) 
was carried out with Mrs H and she agreed to pay the CMP with an additional £50 to 
reduce the arrears (which were around £1,800 at this point). On 13 April 2021 the 
£35 fee was charged again as the CMP was changed in order to capitalise the 
arrears. I am therefore satisfied that these fees were all charged in accordance with 
the agreement. 
Norton amended its Tariff of Charges in June 2021. The updated tariff set out that 
there was a Monthly Administration Fee of £15 which is payable each month you 
do not make your contractual monthly instalment within 10 calendar days of the 
regular due date, to cover the costs associated with collecting payment. This fee will 
not be charged if any payment arrangement is agreed and maintained. There was 
also an Unpaid Payment Fee of £15 which is payable if your contractual monthly instalment is returned unpaid. We do not charge an additional fee if further claims for 
that months [sic] payment are subsequently returned unpaid. 
I can see from the statement of transactions that a charge of £15 has been added to 
Mr and Mrs Hs account on a number of occasions after June 2021 and I am satisfied 
that these have generally been occasions where the CMP had not been paid within 
ten days of the contractual payment date and/or a direct debit had been returned 
unpaid and are therefore in accordance with the terms. 
However, there are four occasions where fees have been charged which dont 
appear to be in line with the tariff of charges. The notes indicate that the direct debit 
was cancelled prior to the June 2021 payment, so the payment for June 2021 was 
returned unpaid and therefore this attracted an unpaid payment fee of £15 on 1 July 
and a monthly administration fee of £15 on 16 July as the CMP hadnt been made 
within 10 days. 
The contact notes for 2 August 2019 state looks like DD hasnt been set up and July 
DD hasnt been attempted. So, as the direct debit was never reinstated, it is unclear 
why further unpaid payment fees have been charged on 4 August, 1 September, 1 
October and 1 November as a payment was never returned unpaid. It is accepted 
that a monthly administration fee of £15 would have been due for these months as 
the CMP wasnt paid within 10 days of the due date but 10 days hadnt elapsed at the 
time of the payments noted above. It also appears that this monthly administration 
fee was charged separately on 10 September and 10 November.
Norton has been asked to comment on this and says that the unpaid payment fee is 
applied if the payment is unpaid and not only if it is returned unpaid. It says that the 
wording of the Tariff of Charges is in the process of being amended. 
Whilst I have taken what Norton has said into account, the wording of the terms at 
the relevant time was that the unpaid payment fee would be charged if the CMP was 
returned unpaid. I note that the monthly administration fee is payable where a 
customer did not make their CMP within 10 days and there is no reference in the 
definition of this fee to it needing to be returned unpaid. I also note that the definition 
of the monthly administration fee in the previous Tariff of Charges said We do not 
charge an additional fee in the event of an unpaid cheque or direct debit. So I think it 
is a reasonable interpretation of the latter term that it would only become payable 
where the payment was returned unpaid. In the instances set out above, the 
payments had not been returned unpaid as there was no direct debit attempted. 
Therefore I am minded to find that Norton should remove these four fees of £15 
along with any interest they attracted.
The tariff also included a Default Notice Fee which is payable if we have to send a 
default notice or notice before proceedings to you and a Solicitors Fee of £200 
which is payable for administration of your account after it has been necessary to 
refer your account to Solicitors for further action to recover the outstanding debt.
I can see from the statement of transactions that Mr and Mrs H were charged a 
default fee of £35 on 11 October 2021 for sending a default notice. On 10 November 
2021 a warning letter was sent before solicitors became involved. A second warning 
letter was sent on 4 January 2022 advising that the account would be referred to 
solicitors in seven days if no payment was received. No further payments were made 
so solicitors were instructed to recover the arrears and a solicitors fee of £200 was 
added to the account on 13 January 2022. 
Given that no payments had been made since May 2021 and Mr H had indicated that 
he wouldnt be paying these until the dispute about the direct debit from June 2021 
was resolved, I dont think it was unreasonable for Norton to send the default notice or instruct solicitors. And I am satisfied that the fees charged were in accordance with 
the agreement. 
Financial difficulties
I can see that Mr and Mrs H didnt make their CMP (of £380.37) in January or 
February 2019. Norton tried to call them on numerous occasions for the payment 
during January and February 2019 without success. Mrs H called Norton on 18 
February to advise that Mr H had been in hospital and that she would call to clear the 
arrears on 22 February, however this didnt happen. On 26 February, Mrs H called 
again to say that Mr H would make a payment that day to clear the arrears and that 
the direct debit for 28 February should be fine. No payment was made on 26 
February and the CMP for February was also not made on 28 February.
Mr H contacted Norton on 1 March 2019 to apologise for the lack of contact but said 
that he had been in and out of hospital. He said that he would get paid on 4 March so 
would clear the balance then if he could or, if not, would do an I&E to come to a 
payment arrangement.
Mr H (who was paying the CMP from his account at this time) first entered into an 
arrangement for arrears owed on the account on 6 March 2019. Ive listened to the 
call from this date and Mr H explained that he had been unwell and that he would 
need surgery and would be off work for up to three months. He said that his sick pay 
was paid in arrears which had caused problems for the last couple of months so Mrs 
H had made the last couple of mortgage payments due to this. However, he said the 
sick pay would now catch up and would be the same amount as his salary. Mr H 
asked if he could come to an arrangement to pay the arrears and an I&E was 
completed based on the figures he gave which showed a surplus. Mr H agreed to 
split the arrears (of around £800) over his next four payments which meant he would 
be paying £591.65 a month commencing 28 March 2019. He was advised that if 
anything happened in relation to his wages to contact Norton and they could come to 
another arrangement.
Mr H didnt suggest that he was in financial difficulties at the time this arrangement 
was made (or previously) and completed an I&E indicating that it was affordable. 
Therefore, I dont think Norton treated him unfairly but putting the arrangement in 
place at this stage. 
The March 2019 payment was made but the CMP was again not paid in April 2019. 
Mrs H rang Norton on 30 April 2019 returning a missed call and said that the funds 
should have been available but Mr H must have forgotten to transfer the funds and 
that she would get him to call and make payment. Following this, efforts were made 
to contact Mr and Mrs H for the payment during May 2019 without success. 
The CMP again wasnt made on 28 May 2019 and Mr H sent an email on the same 
date advising that he was in hospital recovering from surgery and was likely to be 
discharged on 30 May. He said that he had been in no state to manage my finances 
nor take any phone calls. He requested that the April and May payments be made 
on 31 May. Norton agreed to this but advised that it was too late to set up the direct 
debit for 31 May so he would have to pay by card or by the payment link email it sent. 
Although Mr H indicated that he would make the payment on 31 May, this didnt 
happen.
On 4 June 2019, Mr H called in and said that he hadnt been able to get to the bank 
to transfer funds but that he hoped to do so by 7 June. However, this didnt happen 
and the June 2019 CMP was also missed. Mr H called on 8 July 2019 and paid £900 
off the arrears (leaving an arrears balance of around £970) and said he would pay the rest at the end of July 2019 along with the July CMP. This didnt happen and the 
CMP wasnt paid in July or August 2019 and a number of attempts to contact Mr and 
Mrs H were unsuccessful over this period. 
Mrs H rang in on 9 September 2019 to come to an arrangement. At this point the 
arrears were £1,817.40. Mrs H said she had thought that Mr H was making the 
payments but he was still having health issues so she was taking over the payments. 
She said that Mr Hs income was reduced as he did overtime when he was working. 
Ive listened to the call and Mrs H said that she couldnt afford to pay £591.96 (which 
was what Mr H had agreed to in March 2019). After completing an I&E Mrs H was 
told that she would only have to pay the CMP of £380.37. However, Mrs H indicated 
that she would rather reduce her other outgoings and pay more towards this loan as 
she didnt want to stay in arrears. She offered to pay an extra £50 a month of the 
arrears. She was advised by Norton that if she found that did struggle in future to let 
them know and Mrs H said she just wanted to get the arrears paid off. As this stage 
the direct debit was changed into her name. 
At no stage prior to this did Mr or Mrs H mention that they were in financial difficulties 
and struggling to make their payments for that reason. Norton tried to contact them 
repeatedly when payments werent made and this was largely unsuccessful. When 
they did manage to speak to Mr or Mrs H, they said that the arrears would be paid 
and didnt suggest that they were in financial difficulties, rather that the delay in 
payments was due to practical issues caused by Mr H being in hospital.
Mrs H didnt suggest that she was in financial difficulties at the time the second 
arrangement was made (or previously) and completed an I&E indicating that it was 
affordable. In fact Mrs H asked to pay an extra £50 towards the arrears during this 
call and Norton agreed to this but said to contact it again if this was unaffordable.  
Therefore, I dont think Norton treated Mrs H unfairly by putting the arrangement in 
place at this stage. 
Save for a returned direct debit on 31 March 2020 (with the CMP being paid by card 
on 14 April 2020) the payments were maintained between September 2019 to March 
2021.
Capitalisation of arrears
Mr and Mrs H say that they were told on 23 March 2021 that the figures would be 
calculated to amend the account before the March 2021 payment date and that the 
arrears would be added to the balance with a £35 fee. However, they complain that 
the balance did not increase by any amount on the statement of 31 March 2021. 
They also complain that they werent given the opportunity to capitalise the arrears 
earlier.
On 23 March 2021, Norton spoke with Mr H about capitalising the arrears. Ive 
listened to this call where it was explained that capitalisation was better for him and 
that it was being offered now as Mr and Mrs H had been paying increased payments 
for six months so it wanted to work with them. Norton said that this would mean a 
slight increase in the CMP but that this would still be less than they were paying now. 
Norton explained that if they acted quickly they might get this in place for the March 
payment but that it couldnt guarantee this. 
Mr H indicated that he wanted to read through paperwork and this was sent out to 
him. Ive seen the letter from Norton to Mr and Mrs H dated 23 March 2021 in relation 
to capitalisation of the arrears and amending the repayments. The letter states that 
the figures have been recalculated to amend the account before the next payment 
was due on 31 March 2021. It also states that once the enclosed authority had been returned, the arrears would be added to the balance along with a £35 fee for 
capitalisation and the loan would be rescheduled at the same interest rate over 147 
payments.
I have seen Mr and Mrs Hs acceptance form for the capitalisation of arrears which 
has been signed and dated 11 April 2021. Norton has confirmed that it received the 
paperwork back on 13 April and the arrears were capitalised on that date along with 
a £35 fee. This meant that the new CMP was £388.80 and the account no longer 
showed in arrears. 
Having listened to the call, it is clear that Norton didnt guarantee that the account 
would be amended before the March 2021 payment date, in fact it said it couldnt 
guarantee this. Given that Mr and Mrs H didnt return the acceptance form until after 
this payment was due, it would have been impossible for Norton to put this 
arrangement in place any earlier. The fee was charged and the account recalculated 
on the date that Norton received the signed acceptance form and this is in line with 
what I would expect.
In relation to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the balance not changing on the 
statement, I am satisfied that this is accurate. As explained to Mr H on the phone by 
Norton previously, the arrears figure already forms part of the outstanding balance; it 
is simply the part of the balance which is overdue and hasnt been paid in line with 
the loan agreement. When the arrears are capitalised, this simply means that they 
have been spread out over the existing term so they now form part of what is owed 
under the CMP and are no longer reported as arrears. Therefore, I wouldnt expect 
the balance to change once the arrears have been capitalised. 
In relation to when capitalisation should have been offered, Norton says that this 
would normally be offered following at least six consecutive payments under a 
payment arrangement being made on time. It has provided a copy of its policy in 
relation to this. I can see that, following the arrangement set up with Mrs H in 
September 2019, payments were made on time in September, October, November 
and December 2019 and January and February 2020. So it appears that six 
consecutive months of payments had been made as of 28 February 2020 and Norton 
now accepts that capitalisation was not offered in accordance with its policy.
I should say that capitalisation will not necessarily save the customers money, as the 
arrears will be spread over the full term of the loan which means extra interest will be 
payable as the borrowing is over a longer term. However, it will assist their credit 
profile as the account will no longer be showing in arrears and they would also not be 
paying any additional interest on the arrears each month.
Norton has calculated the difference in cost had capitalisation been agreed by Mr 
and Mrs H in March 2020. This has not significantly affected the account balance and 
in fact Mr and Mrs H have benefitted from a reduction in overall cost by virtue of the 
fact that the account was not capitalised then. In light of this, I wont be asking Norton 
to do anything further in respect of this. 
Legal fees
Mr and Mrs H have said that the legal costs are unjust and could have been avoided. 
They say that the legal action began due to the account falling into arrears after non-
payment over many months relating to disputes regarding errors in the statements 
and charges applied. Mr and Mrs H say that they cleared the amount in full before 
the court hearing but were told by Norton that its solicitors had said it was too late to 
suspend the hearing. They say they were told by the court that this was incorrect and later signed a Consent Order agreeing that the hearing would be cancelled as 
payment had been made. 
On the day of the hearing Mr and Mrs H say they received correspondence from the 
solicitors explaining that the application for cancellation of the hearing had been 
refused and the hearing would go ahead. This was as the judge did not agree that 
the legal costs should be added to the mortgage, albeit Norton would still chase for 
the legal costs. Mr H said in his complaint to Norton on 9 August 2022 that he 
attended the hearing which cost him loss of working hours to the value of £40 and 
travel costs of £18 which he would like reimbursed as he says that this was through 
no fault of his own. Following the view, Mr H says that these costs amounted to £150, 
albeit a further breakdown hasnt been provided. He says he would not have had to 
incur these costs if the solicitors had applied to have the hearing stopped earlier and 
not requested the legal costs to be placed against the security.
Whilst I have considered the issue of the legal fees, Mr and Mrs H have also 
complained about the way the solicitors handled the case and the service provided. 
They have previously been advised that these issues would need to be raised with 
the solicitors firm and are not something which this service can look into. 
Following the capitalisation, payments were received in April and May 2021 but, as 
set out above, Norton received notification on 30 June 2021 that the June 2021 direct 
debit payment had been cancelled. As a result of the dispute about the direct debit 
and, subsequently, about Mrs Hs bank details being provided to him, Mr H refused to 
make any payments until this was resolved. Norton asked if he could pay the CMP 
and then the fee could be discussed once he had spoken to the bank but Mr H said 
that he wasnt paying anything. He refused to provide bank details to set up a new 
direct debit and was advised he could pay by bank transfer. He maintained that he 
would not pay as he had referred his complaint to this service and would not pay until 
the dispute was resolved. No payments were made after this until February 2022 
when the arrears were cleared shortly before a court hearing for possession was 
listed.
Mr H was contacted by Norton on a number of occasions and asked to make the 
CMP but refused. Norton called to discuss his account and explain the figures, it sent 
documents requested by Mr H including a statement of transactions and mortgage 
offer. He was told that he could do a bank transfer if he didnt want to provide his 
bank details to set up a new direct debit.
Mr H was advised on various occasions that if payments werent made then charges 
would be applied and arrears procedures would continue. For example, he was told 
during the call on 4 August 2021 that if it got to the stage where Norton took him to 
court then solicitors costs would be added to the account. 
A default notice was sent on 11 October 2021 as no payments had been received 
since May 2021. On 10 November 2021 a warning letter was sent before solicitors 
became involved. Mr H called Norton on 12 November 2021 following receipt of the 
letter and said that it (Norton) had stopped collecting his payments and went on to 
allow the account to fall into arrears and attract interest and costs. He still denied that 
the direct debit in June 2021 had been cancelled.
Mr and Mrs H have said that the legal costs are unjust and could have been avoided. 
I disagree that it was Nortons fault that the account fell into arrears. As set out 
above, I am satisfied that the ongoing disputes Mr and Mrs H had with Norton about 
fees and statements didnt mean that Mr and Mrs H were no longer liable to pay their 
CMP in line with the loan agreement. The fact Mr H had an ongoing complaint about 
the cancellation of the direct debit and about Mrs Hs bank details being provided to 
him didnt alter Mr and Mrs Hs obligations to make their monthly repayments. Likewise, the fact that they had made a complaint to this Service didnt mean that the 
CMP was no longer due.
The legal fees could have been avoided if Mr and Mrs H had made their contractual 
monthly payments. They were aware that the CMP was due even if they didnt accept 
other additional fees were due but the CMP still wasnt paid. I also note that they 
were in arrears prior to these disputes. Mr and Mrs H were given numerous warnings 
and made aware that they would incur legal fees if they continued to refuse to pay 
the CMP (and the increasing arrears). Therefore, I am satisfied that it was 
reasonable for Norton to charge Mr and Mrs H the legal fees associated with having 
to take them to court to recover the arrears. 
Ive gone on to consider the amount of fees charged. 
There were a number of calls which took place between this service, Norton and Mr 
and Mrs H and their son in early February 2022 in relation to making arrangements 
for the arrears to be paid before the court hearing was listed on 18 February 2022. 
Norton agreed to stand the court action down if payment was made and I can see 
that the arrears were paid on 10 February 2022. 
During a call between Norton and this service on 16 February 2022, Norton said it 
had tried to stand down the court hearing as Mr and Mrs H had paid the arrears but 
that it had been advised by its solicitors that it was too late to do this. I have listened 
to this call and the agent is clear that other than the fees that were added to the 
account prior to the payment being made, no additional fees would be added to Mr 
and Mrs Hs account for the court action. 
I note that the arrears were only paid off shortly before the court hearing was listed 
on 18 February 2022. Therefore much of the costs for the legal action would already 
have been incurred before the arrears were cleared. I think it reasonable that Mr and 
Mrs H should be charged the costs incurred prior to the arrears being paid as these 
were only incurred due to them continuing to fail to make the payments due under 
the terms of the agreement. 
Norton has provided a breakdown of the legal fees charged and I am satisfied that 
the majority of these were incurred in preparation for the court hearing and before the 
arrears were paid off. However, there is a fee of £120 (including VAT) for LPC Agent 
Fee, which Norton has confirmed was for an agent to attend court to have the 
Consent Order approved and a court fee for filing the Consent Order of £108. 
Norton says that Mr and Mrs H signed the Consent Order including a clause stating 
that they agreed to the costs being added to the account. Whilst I accept this, the 
clause didnt specify the amount of costs.
I think the payment of the arrears eight days before the court hearing was listed 
should have provided sufficient time for the hearing to have been cancelled.
Additionally, once Norton was told that the hearing couldnt be cancelled, it agreed in 
its call to this service on 16 February 2022 (which was in turn relayed to Mr and Mrs 
H) that no additional fees would be added to Mr and Mrs Hs account after the 
payment was made in relation to the court hearing. Given that the solicitors advised 
on 14 February 2022 that the hearing couldnt be stood down and the Consent Order 
was only signed on 17 February 2022 after it became apparent that the hearing 
couldnt be vacated, I am satisfied that the two fees mentioned above relate to the 
court hearing and were added to the account after the payment was made. 
Therefore, I am minded to find that Norton should remove the fee of £120 for the LPC 
agent to attend court and the fee of £108 for the filing of the Consent Order along 
with any interest they have attracted.As set out above, Mr and Mrs H have made no further representations in response to the 
provisional decision. Norton has confirmed that it accepts the provisional decision and the 
points made regarding the charges to be refunded to Mr and Mrs Hs account and 
recalculation of the balance based on these revised figures. As there have been no further 
representations, I see no reason to change my provisional view. 
Putting things right
In light of the above, I require Norton Home Loans Limited to do the following:
Remove from Mr and Mrs Hs account each of the unpaid payment fees of £15 for 4 
August, 1 September, 1 October and 1 November 2021 and recalculate the account 
as if these had not been charged.
Remove from Mr and Mrs Hs account the LPC Agent fee of £120 and fee for 
Consent order of £108 and recalculate the account as if these had not been charged.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision and above, my decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Norton Home Loans Limited and require it to put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman