DRN-1478533
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs S complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading as TSB) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out PPI alongside their joint mortgage which started in January 1996. 
This protected their mortgage repayments in the event that Mr S couldnt work as a result of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
Mr and Mrs S mainly said that they didnt need PPI but the advisor made it seem as if it had 
to be taken out to proceed with the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Neither Lloyds nor Mr and Mrs S could provide any signed paperwork from 1996 when the 
PPI was sold. But this isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened. Mr and Mrs S 
told us they made their application during a meeting with a mortgage advisor at the bank. 
I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr and Mrs S arranged their mortgage and 
took out this PPI. After so long, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect them to recall exactly 
what was said at the time. This means that what Mr and Mrs S say about the way they were 
sold this PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. I must look 
at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely.
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage was a major financial commitment, repayable over a substantial 
number of years. Their home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable protection. So, I can see why they mightve felt this 
policy was useful to have. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs S wanted to have the benefits and 
security that having PPI offered them, and that Lloyds added the policy to their mortgage 
account when Mr and Mrs S decided to buy it.Lloyds wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. So, in fairness to them, it looked at 
their mis-sale complaint on the basis that its advisor had recommended PPI during the 
meeting Mr and Mrs S recalled having at the bank. Given the lack of paperwork showing 
how Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, I think this is the fairest way to assess this 
complaint as it imposes extra obligations on the lender. If a business makes a 
recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear 
way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable.   
It looks to me as if PPI wouldve been a suitable recommendation based on what 
Mr and Mrs S have said about their circumstances at the time. 
Mr S was eligible for the PPI policy. 
Its likely that the policy couldve paid out a monthly benefit that covered Mr and Mrs Ss 
mortgage repayments for up to 12 months per claim. 
Mr S told us he wouldve only got statutory sick pay if he wasnt able to work as a result of 
having an accident or being off work ill or becoming disabled  he wasnt entitled to any sick 
pay from his employer. So I think the policy could've provided a useful benefit at whats likely 
to have been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs S.
And the policy wouldve also paid out if Mr S lost his job unexpectedly and he became 
unemployed.   
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Mr and Mrs S if Mr S was off 
work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve got if 
hed lost his job, giving Mr and Mrs S some additional financial security in those 
circumstances.
It appears this mortgage was taken out when Mr and Mrs S were both working. I dont know 
how easy it wouldve been for Mrs S to keep up the mortgage monthly repayments for very 
long on her own if only she was working. I think its likely that if Mr S couldnt work this 
wouldve had a significant impact on their joint household finances. 
So, overall, I find that the PPI Lloyds sold Mr and Mrs S with their mortgage was suitable. 
Its possible some information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Its likely that there were some things the policy didnt cover  it mightve 
been difficult for someone doing only limited part time hours to claim for unemployment, and 
existing medical conditions mightnt have been fully covered. But as Mr S told us he was in 
good health when he took out the policy, and he was in a full time job, then I don't think any 
of the usual main policy limitations are likely to have affected Mr S. 
I dont know how the cost was explained. But Mr and Mrs S havent complained about the 
policy being unaffordable for them or causing them money problems. Mr and Mrs S paid for 
this policy each month. So they couldve cancelled it at any time without incurring any extra 
cost if they didnt want to pay for it. 
Taking everything into account I think Mr and Mrs S probably still wouldve decided to buy 
the policy to protect Mr S even if theyd been better informed as it provided useful protection 
in their particular situation. I dont think its likely that having clearer information wouldve put 
them off buying it. So I dont find that Mr and Mrs S have lost out as a result of anything Lloyds mightve done 
wrong when it sold them this PPI policy with their mortgage. This means that Lloyds doesnt 
need to do anything to put things right.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman