DRN-3637496
The complaint
S, a company, complains that Travelers Insurance Company Limited (TICL) has unfairly 
handled a claim under its property owners policy.
Any reference to S or TICL includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events. 
S owns a business unit insured by TICL. In October 2020 the unit was broken into 
and copper wiring was removed from an air conditioning condenser. S reported this 
to the police.
In April 2021 S reported the matter to TICL. It said the damage caused was malicious 
and resulting from the theft of the copper wiring. S says its tenant didnt inform S of 
the damage immediately, and following this S obtained two quotes for the repairs.
TICL considered the claim and said S had brought the claim late and prejudiced its 
position. And it had spoken to an engineer appointed by S (Engineer A) who had said 
the air conditioning unit was 26 years old, unreliable, and shouldve been replaced 
years before as it had a lifespan of around 15 years. 
TICL says Engineer A provided a quote of £1,500 to repair the unit. And that there 
had been further incidents of malicious damage since the break-in in October. So 
TICL said it would settle the claim to the sum of £1,500 (minus excess) on the basis 
the age and condition of the unit was the reason it needed replacing, and Engineer A 
couldve completed repairs caused by the malicious damage.
S disagreed, saying its policy provided new for old cover and therefore TICL should 
pay the full cost of replacing the existing system as it could not be repaired. And it 
said Engineer A had told the tenant that any repair was likely to fail. And S 
questioned whether a repair wouldve been possible if parts werent available.
Our Investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
S had a policy obligation to report a claim of damage caused by malicious persons 
within seven days. But here S had reported the matter late, and it had prejudiced 
TICLs position as earlier notification wouldve likely allowed TICL to repair the unit 
for a cost of £1,500.
S disagreed, saying:
oEngineer As comments could be viewed as prejudiced as they knew they 
would not be getting the replacement work. And their reference to further 
incidents of damage should be discounted as hearsay.
oThe company Engineer A worked for had serviced the air conditioning unit 
every six months for many years, and none of its records reflect repairs being 
needed, so it was incorrect to say it was unreliable.
oPrior to the incident the unit had been in full working order. And Engineer A 
had told Ss tenants that the repair may not work. S also questioned how 
TICL could repair a unit if parts werent available. And that the unit had since 
been replaced by another firm who confirmed it had been beyond repair.
This didnt change the Investigators mind, so the matter has been passed to me for 
an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
TICL has accepted that an insured peril has taken place in this instance and the 
claim is covered by the policy.
The dispute here lies with TICLs offer of settlement. So, this is what Ive focused on.
Under the general conditions of S policy, it states that circumstances giving rise to a 
claim should be notified to TICL as soon as possible, and within seven days of 
damage caused by malicious persons. TICL says its position has been prejudiced by 
the delay in raising the claim. And it has offered the sum it says reflects the cost of 
repairing the unit when the damage first occurred.
Its not in dispute that S raised the claim some six months after the incident took 
place. S attributes this to its tenants notifying it late, but simply, this isnt the 
responsibility of TICL. So, Im satisfied the claim was brought late and outside the 
conditions of the policy. Ive gone on to consider if this had any material impact on 
the claim that would fairly justify TICLs reliance on it.
Engineer A said a repair of £1,500 would have been possible. So, it seems the 
insured damage could be put right by repair. But it seems for other reasons, based 
on the units age, reliability and commentary that it shouldve been replaced long 
before, the engineer advised replacing the unit. In essence, putting money towards a 
replacement of an older and unreliable unit of which parts may not be available may 
be a safer long-term option.
Engineer A had also commented on parts not being available for the unit. S has 
argued this means the repair wouldnt be possible. 
If the engineer had no capability to repair the unit at all, I dont think it follows they 
were able to provide a quote for this in the first place. Its not uncommon for parts for 
older units to be unavailable, so Ive understood this advice to essentially mean parts 
for the unit may not be available in the event it fails again as the engineer said was 
likely due to its unreliability and age.
So, all of this suggests to me the unit could have been repaired at the time of the 
break-in for £1,500. And while I would expect such a repair to be effective and 
lasting, in these circumstances I wouldnt expect this to account for unrelated issues 
unconnected to the insured event  such as age or unreliability.
S has asked me to discount Engineer As evidence as biased given their employer, 
Company A, were not given the contract for replacement. Im not persuaded by Ss 
argument here at all, and I can see no reason to doubt the evidence the engineer has 
put forward as anything but their genuine opinion and commentary.
S says Company As service invoices to show the air conditioning unit was in good 
condition prior to the break in. Ive reviewed these and I dont doubt the machine was serviced. But regular servicing doesnt lead me to conclude I should discount 
Engineer As comments that the unit was unreliable or shouldve been replaced years 
before  particularly in light of its age and Company As familiarity with the unit. As 
well as at least one of the servicing reports from October 2020 showing the pipework 
and insulation required attention. So, Ss comments havent changed my mind.
S has also provided a separate quote from March 2021 from another company 
(Company B) that says the unit was beyond repair. Given Company A/Engineer As 
own familiarity with the unit from years of servicing it, Im not persuaded Company 
Bs comments outweigh Company As or conclusively show a repair wasnt possible.
I also note within the invoice S has provided to show the air conditioning unit has 
since been replaced, it states replacement units needed due to the existing system 
beyond lifespan. I think this supports the reason for a replacement was related to the 
age and condition of the unit, as opposed to it being in an irreparable state following 
the break-in and malicious damage that S has claimed for. 
For these reasons Im satisfied TICL has fairly sought to settle this matter for the cost 
of repair which it wouldve covered had the matter been reported soon after the loss 
took place. So, Im not directing it to do anything further.
There has been discussion of Engineer As comments that further incidents of 
malicious damage took place since the October 2020 break-in. On its face, this 
suggests to me that the late notification may have also prejudiced TICLs position. I 
say this as the unit wouldve seemingly been in a worse condition at the time TICL 
was able to step in to handle the claim, than if it had been informed immediately after 
the October 2020 break-in. But in light of the conclusion Ive already reached above, I 
believe this issue falls away.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman