DRN-4090995
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked and closed her account. She would 
like compensation.
What happened
Miss M had a basic account with Barclays.
In early August 2022 Barclays blocked Miss Ms account to carry out a review. She attended 
branch to explain she was sending money abroad to relatives. She attended branch with 
photo Identification and the transactions were confirmed as genuine and the account 
unblocked.
On 23 August 2022 Barclays blocked the account because they needed to confirm another 
transaction on the account. Miss M was asked to attend branch with her Identification which 
she did. Barclays were satisfied and they unblocked the account. 
Barclays carried out a review. Miss M explained she was receiving money from abroad due 
to the sale of a property and she was sending money abroad to relatives. Miss M was able to 
provide documentation.
Barclays put the account into a £500,00 overdraft.
Following the review Barclays made the decision to close Miss Ms account on 
30 September 2022. Barclays closed the account with immediate effect.
Barclays later decided that they should have given Miss M two months notice to close her 
account and offered £200 compensation for this error.
Barclays asked Miss M to attend branch to collect the funds in her account. The balance of 
the account amounting to £13,000.33 was released to Miss M on 7 October 2022 as a cash 
payment.
Miss M has said she found the block on her account very difficult as she was unable to 
provide for her family. She called Barclays many times and couldnt understand why she 
wasnt able to access her account.
She also found it stressful when she looked at her account and it showed an overdraft of 
£500,000. Miss M said she didnt know what had happened to her money and why she was 
overdrawn. She was very concerned, and she didnt get any explanation from Barclays.
Miss M said she was worried when she had to collect the balance in her account in cash as 
she lives at least 30 minutes away from her nearest branch.
Miss M has also complained that the police attended her house asking about her finances. 
This she found very upsetting. Miss M has said she was very stressed, distracted and upset 
about what was happening on her account. 
Miss M is concerned about her credit score as well as two disputed transactions.
Miss M complained to Barclays but as she was unhappy with their response she complained 
to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. She thought Barclays were entitled to block 
and review the account and close it  but she thought they should have given Miss M two 
months notice. She thought their offer of £200 to put things right was reasonable. She said 
Miss M needed to contact a branch in person to raise the disputed transactions as she no 
longer had an account with Barclays.
She didnt think Barclays had been responsible for the visit by the police although she 
acknowledged that it had been a stressful thing for Miss M.
Miss M was unhappy with the compensation. She thought that was not enough considering 
the stress she had been put through.
As there was no agreement the matter came to me, and I issued a provisional decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Account Block
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Miss Ms account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Barclays were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Miss Ms account. 
Because financial businesses, like Barclays, are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements, they have to monitor their customers accounts and may need to review an 
account at any time. While that is happening, they may need to block or restrict any 
payments.
This is reflected in Barclays terms and conditions. These say Barclays can block an account 
or card to meet its legal obligations and delay payments if needed to carry out further 
checks. It can also ask customers to provide documents it may need. In Miss Ms case, Im 
satisfied that Barclays was acting in line with its legal and regulatory requirements when it 
reviewed Miss Ms account.
Overdraft
Miss M has said she found it very stressful when she saw her account had been put in 
overdraft by £500 000. I appreciate this must have been very concerning for Miss M. The 
removal of the funds and putting the account in overdraft were an internal process which the 
bank carried out in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. It was done to 
meet its internal process requirements. However, I think putting Miss Ms account into a 
£500,000 overdraft and not offering an explanation added to her stress. Although I 
appreciate that Barclays have a procedure it follows when they review accounts, Miss M 
wasnt given an explanation and she thought her money had gone and she owed more. This 
added to Miss Ms stress in an already difficult situation.
Account closureIve next looked at Barclays decision to close Miss Ms account. Banks are entitled to end 
their business relationship with a customer, as long as its done fairly and is in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. 
Barclays decided to close the account with immediate effect. However, Barclays later 
decided that they should have given Miss M 60 days notice to close her account. They 
offered £200 compensation to put things right. I know Miss M wants more compensation but 
having looked at the evidence Im satisfied that this is fair compensation in the 
circumstances, and I wont be increasing it.
The account that Miss M had with Barclays was a basic account and specific rules apply 
regarding closure of these accounts. These are the Payment Account Regulations 2015. 
Barclays could close the basic account if:
Reg 26 (2)(e) the consumer has access to another payment account in the United Kingdom 
which
(i)allows the consumer to make use of the services listed in regulation 19(1); and 
(ii)was opened after the payment account with basic features.
I tried to find out when Miss Ms basic account was opened with Barclays. Barclays 
confirmed that her account was opened on 8 September 2016.  Miss M has said she has 
another account with another financial institution in the UK I will call H. The account satisfies 
Regulation 26 (2) e (i). 
I asked Miss M to let us know when that account had been opened in order to satisfy myself 
that the account was opened after the Barclays account. Miss M hasnt provided me with 
specific information, she has said she had the account with H for more than 5 years. 
Although we have asked her to tell us a precise date, she hasnt provided this information.  
However, looking at the evidence I have before me Im satisfied on a balance of probabilities 
that its more likely than not that Miss M opened her account with H after 8 September 2016. 
It follows that Barclays were able to close Miss Ms account under regulation 26(2)(e).
Account balance
Ive seen that Miss M received her funds on 7 October 2022.
When Barclays closed Miss Ms account it required her to attend branch and collect her 
funds, around £13,000, in cash. Miss M has said this was very stressful for her because she 
lives far away from the bank about 30 to 40 minutes by car and she had to bring her 
children. I appreciate that having to receive that amount of money in cash and then deposit it 
into another account is stressful and very difficult. I think Barclays should have given Miss M 
an option to collect her money in a more secure way. I dont think the way they treated her 
was fair and it added to her stress.
Reason
Miss M has said she wants to know the reasons why Barclays closed her account. Whilst 
Miss M mayve expected to be given the reasons for the account closure, Barclays isnt 
required to give her a specific reason. And I can understand Miss Ms frustration that she 
hasnt been provided a detailed explanation. But as the investigator has explained, Barclays 
is under no obligation to provide this information to her, as much as shed like to know. So, 
I cant say Barclays have done anything wrong by not giving Miss M this information. 
Police VisitMiss M has said she was very concerned by the police visit and it has caused a great deal of 
stress and residual trauma. She has described not being able to sleep and being concerned 
every time a car drives near her house. I know Miss M has said that Barclays asked the 
police to visit her, and they are responsible for the unnecessary stress the visit caused her.
I accept that Miss M found it stressful to be visited by police. Ive looked at the information on 
file and Ive seen no evidence that Barclays was responsible for the police visit Miss M refers 
to.
In summary I accept that Barclays were entitled to review Miss Ms account and she had to 
visit the branch to provide information that Barclays needed to carry out their reviews. Im 
satisfied they acted fairly in carrying out the reviews. I know Miss M would like to be 
refunded the costs of attending branch, but I am satisfied that Barclays were entitled to ask 
for the information they needed, so I think they havent been unfair here and I wont be 
awarding Miss M the costs of her travel to branch.
Miss M had her account closed with immediate effect. Barclays recognised that they should 
have given Miss M 60 days notice and offered compensation of £200 for this. I think that 
amount is fair for their error in closing the account with immediate effect. As I have found 
that Miss M had another account when Barclays closed her basic account, I havent found 
that Miss M was further affected by the closure.
I think Barclays did contribute to Miss Ms stress and anxiety because of the way they 
carried out the review and closure. They didnt explain why her account was showing an 
overdraft of £500,000 on her app. An explanation could have calmed her fears at an already 
difficult time. In addition, I dont think making Miss M collect her balance in cash was 
reasonable and it added to her stress levels. Because of this I am minded to ask Barclays to 
pay an extra £200 in compensation.
In my provisional decision I thought Barclays should pay Miss M £200 for closing her 
account with immediate effect. And an additional £200 for the extra stress caused because 
of not providing an explanation for the overdraft and for having to collect her funds in cash.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss M hasnt provided any comments to my provisional decision. Barclays have also not 
provided any comments to my provisional decision.
Now both parties have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Miss M and Barclays have not provided any further comments, I have nevertheless 
re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have seen nothing to change my mind 
and so my provisional findings stand.
Putting things right
For the reasons stated I am asking Barclays to pay Miss M £200 for closing her account with 
immediate effect. And an additional £200 for the extra stress caused because of not providing an explanation for the overdraft and for having to collect her funds in cash.
My final decision
For the reasons above and contained in my provisional decision I partly uphold this 
complaint. I require Barclays Bank UJK PLC to pay Miss M £400 compensation for her 
material distress.
Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Miss M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman