DRN-4209000
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about their mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. 
They complain that:
- the mortgage was mis-sold because it was interest-only, on an inflated interest rate, and 
was unaffordable from the start;
- the mortgage interest rate has always been unfairly high;
- Halifax has failed to support them since the mortgage term ended.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage with Halifax in 2004. They borrowed around £80,000 
over a term of 15 years, and the mortgage offer said the mortgage repayment type was 
Investment Backed  that is, Mr and Mrs B were to make payments of interest only and 
have an investment in place to repay the mortgage at the end of the term. 
The mortgage was on a fixed interest rate of 5.89% until November 2009, followed by 
Halifaxs standard variable rate (SVR).
The mortgage term ended in September 2019. Mr and Mrs B said they werent in a position 
to repay the capital balance of around £65,000. 
On 3 December 2020, Mr and Mrs B complained to Halifax. They said a specialist agency 
had told them they had been paying an excessive amount of interest on their mortgage, and 
they wanted an investigation and a refund.
Halifax said it hadnt overcharged Mr and Mrs B and didnt offer a refund. Mr and Mrs B 
referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. They also complained about 
the sale of the mortgage, saying they had always found the payments unaffordable, and 
about how Halifax was treating them now the mortgage term had ended.
Halifax said the mortgage had been sold by an intermediary, or broker, but they were no 
longer trading, so Mr and Mrs B could contact the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
about the sale. It didnt issue a final response about the term end complaint, but agreed that 
it could be included in our consideration of this case.
Our Investigator concluded that we cant consider Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about the sale 
of their mortgage or about the interest rate they were charged before December 2014 (six 
years before they complained). The Investigator went on to consider the merits of the parts 
of the complaint he had found he could look into, and didnt recommend they be upheld.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept the Investigators conclusions. They said no broker was involved 
when they took out their mortgage in 2004, and they were sold a mortgage they couldnt 
afford. A firm of solicitors had told them in 2020 they had been overcharged interest, and 
they would like Halifax to reduce their mortgage balance in order to resolve matters.
I issued a decision confirming which parts of this complaint the Financial Ombudsman 
Service can consider  that is, the interest applied from 3 December 2014 onwards (but 
bearing in mind earlier rate variations as part of all the circumstances of the complaint), and 
Halifaxs treatment of Mr and Mrs B following the end of the mortgage term.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I realise Mr and Mrs B will be very disappointed, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
The interest rate
Mr and Mrs B have said that Halifax has charged them too much interest because it has 
wrongly treated their mortgage as having been sold by a broker and inflated the interest rate 
as a result, and because a firm of solicitors (which is no longer trading) assured them they 
had been overcharged and should be entitled to a refund.
A mortgage intermediary or broker, where one is involved, acts for the prospective customer 
and not the lender. A broker would generally look to arrange the most favourable mortgage 
arrangement for their customer. However, as Ive explained in a separate decision, I cant 
consider Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about Halifaxs decision to lend to them in 2004, because 
they left it too long to complain.
I can consider the interest rate Halifax applied to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage from 3 December 
2014 onwards, while keeping in mind earlier rate variations.
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was initially on a five-year fixed rate, until November 2009. Their 
mortgage offer said that after the initial fixed rate ended, unless Mr and Mrs B took another 
special rate, interest would be charged at Halifaxs base rate. The relevant mortgage 
conditions said the base rate is variable and set out, at condition 7.10, the reasons for which 
Halifax could vary the rate. They said it could do so:
(a) To reflect changes in the cost to us of raising the money we lend to our customers with 
mortgages.
(b) To reflect changes in rates of interest charged by other major lenders (including the 
terms on which mortgages are offered by them).
(c) To reflect: changes to the law or codes of practice, a decision or recommendation made 
by, or a requirement of, a court, ombudsman, regulator or similar body or an undertaking 
given to the Financial Services Authority.
(d) To reflect changes to the way we look after the mortgage account or mortgage accounts 
generally (including changes to the technology we use) because of: 
-the steps we have taken to modernise or improve our systems for managing those 
accounts; or
-reasons outside our control.
(e) To reflect changes to the accounting period.
(f) Because:
-we are going to take over, take control of or acquire the business of another bank or 
organisation offering similar services;
-we are going to be taken over or our business is acquired by another bank or 
organisation offering similar services; or 
-any of these things has happened, 
and the change will make sure that our customers and the customers of the other bank 
or organisation are treated in a similar way if they are in similar categories.(g) To reflect changes to the way the property is used or occupied.
(h) Because we must reduce the base rate under condition 7.17(b).
Between the initial fixed interest rate on Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage ending in 2009, and 
December 2020, when Mr and Mrs B made this complaint, Halifaxs base rate or SVR varied 
between 3.5% and 4.24%.
Ive looked carefully at Halifaxs SVR  including historic changes, since the SVR applied to 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage since December 2014 isnt the result only of decisions Halifax 
made during that period, but also the result of decisions it made earlier. In doing so, Ive 
considered the information Halifax has provided to us about its reasons for varying its SVR 
in the way it did and the mortgage conditions above, alongside external reference rates such 
as Bank of England base rate, and wider economic conditions. Ive also kept in mind 
relevant law, including the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999.
Having done so, I dont consider that Halifax varied the interest rate it applied to Mr and 
Mrs Bs mortgage unfairly. The SVR was varied for reasons allowed under the mortgage 
conditions, and where Halifaxs SVR didnt vary in line with Bank of England base rate 
changes, Halifax has provided details of its funding costs and how those costs informed its 
decisions to vary its SVR. 
I have also kept in mind that while Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage was subject to the SVR, there 
were no early repayment charges, for example  so they could have re-mortgaged 
elsewhere or asked Halifax about any fixed or tracker rates it was offering without having to 
pay an early repayment charge. I also find nothing to indicate that Mr and Mrs B paid an 
inflated rate of interest because Halifaxs records say they took out the mortgage through a 
broker, and Mr and Mrs B havent said anything which leads me to conclude that they have 
been overcharged interest during the period I can consider. While they have explained that 
they struggled to keep up with the mortgage payments, there were no mortgage arrears 
during the period I can look at, and nothing to indicate that Halifax should reasonably have 
offered them a concessionary rate of interest, for example.
Term end 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage term ended in 2019. The latest figure Ive seen for their mortgage 
balance is from July 2022, when they owed around £65,000. Mr and Mrs B have said they 
have no lump sum or investment to repay this balance. They have discussed their situation 
with Halifax a number of times since 2018 and provided details of their income and 
expenditure. Halifaxs records show that it has explored a capital repayment or a retirement 
interest-only mortgage with Mr and Mrs B, but that neither of these would be affordable.
Mr and Mrs B have said theyre considering their options, including selling the property  
which they estimated in 2020 to be worth about £950,000  and downsizing, or taking an 
equity release mortgage. But they have since said they would like to continue with their 
existing interest-only mortgage arrangement with Halifax.
Mr and Mrs B agreed when they took out the mortgage that they would repay it at the end of 
the term in 2019. Halifax didnt agree to lend them a lifetime mortgage, and it was entitled to 
expect Mr and Mrs B to repay their mortgage in 2019. That was its agreement with them, 
and it isnt obliged to extend the term now.
However, circumstances can and do change, and I consider that Halifax has approached Mr 
and Mrs Bs requests for a term extension fairly. It has considered their situation, but has 
been unable to find a solution. It has also held off on taking any further action to recover the mortgage debt for a considerable period of time  giving Mr and Mrs B time to consider their 
options. I dont find that Halifax has treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly or failed to support them. 
Mr and Mrs Bs plan to repay the mortgage appears to be to sell the property. But its unclear 
when they plan to do so: they told Halifax in 2018 that they would look at selling in five years 
time, and in 2019 that they were looking at new-build properties which would be ready in 18-
24 months. I can certainly see that the coronavirus pandemic may have derailed some of 
their plans. Nonetheless, in all the circumstances, I dont consider that it would be 
reasonable for me to direct Halifax to wait indefinitely for repayment of the mortgage. Mr and 
Mrs B have substantial equity in their property and are not without options. I encourage them 
to look into taking independent financial advice if they havent already done so and are 
considering a lifetime mortgage in order to stay in their property, or to take steps to arrange 
for the property to be sold  and to keep Halifax informed of their progress.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman