DRN-3029072
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card, in 2003. Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him PPI with the 
card.
To keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Halifax.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint (which includes Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover) arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
One of our adjudicators looked into the case and said they didnt think we should uphold the 
mis-sale element of the complaint. 
They also said that, although Halifax doesnt accept it did anything wrong in relation to the 
commission it obtained as a result of selling the PPI, it has since made an offer to Mr H as if 
it had. The adjudicator thought this offer to pay back some of the cost in relation to the 
commission element was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint. However, 
Ive also considered the issue of the non-disclosure of the commission as mentioned above. 
Ive seen that Halifax has made an offer in respect this, and I too think the offer to refund 
some of the cost to compensate for the commission element is fair in the circumstances. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
I think Halifax made it clear enough that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI if he didnt 
want to. I see he chose to take it out by ticking a box which said Yes, I would like to take 
out the credit card repayments cover costing 78p per £100. If Mr H hadnt agreed to 
the PPI I dont think he would have ticked this box or signed the form.
Halifax did not recommend the PPI to Mr H as part of an advised sale, so it only had to 
provide enough information to allow Mr H to make an informed choice. It was for Mr H 
himself to determine whether the PPI was suitable for his needs. 
Its certainly possible the information Halifax gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been, but as Ive said, he chose to take it out so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. I note the cost was shown directly next to where he made the choice. 
It also looks like it was affordable for him, so it seems like it would have been useful if 
something went wrong. I therefore dont think Mr H would have declined the policy even 
if Halifax had done a better job at explaining things. He was eligible for the cover and 
there was nothing about his employment or occupation which would have made it difficult 
for him to claim in my view. 
While the policy contained certain limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and 
/ or mental health conditions, in light of Mr Hs own circumstances at the time of sale and 
despite these limitations or exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for him. I dont think hed have expected to claim for these things without 
providing at least some evidence. Ive also considered what his representative said 
about him having pre-existing illnesses which might not be covered under the policy 
rules. However, it provided very little evidence or context; one related to a childhood 
illness several decades before the sale which I dont think is relevant. The other related 
to a condition hed had, for which no time was taken off work. So I think Mr H would have 
still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out. Ive been shown nothing 
which indicates this (second) medical issue would have been one he ever envisaged 
needing to claim for under the PPI.
Overall, I therefore consider that Mr H would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy 
provided a useful benefit. I also think the it was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought 
he was getting. In those circumstances, I think he would have taken out the policy in any 
event because the evidence shows it was something he wanted to have.
Mr Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
However, Mr Hs representative hasnt said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of his individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things carefully and how they might apply in Mr Hs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
non-disclosure of commission
As I also mentioned above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, 
including whether this resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received under 
the rules that apply  but in any event I note its offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, 
so theres nothing more it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr Hs representative has made a number of points about this part of the complaint including 
the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
on his complaint. In summary they said Mr H should get back all the money he paid for the 
policy because Halifax failed to tell him about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio, and the typical restrictions / exclusions on cover. Because they 
say these things meant the policy was poor value, they imply I should find that Mr H wouldnt 
have taken out the policy had he known about the level of commission. His representative 
says he should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
However, in this case, Halifax has shown us that the commission for Mr Hs PPI was less 
than half of what he paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out 
and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr Hs case was less 
than half the cost of the PPI, and therefore below the threshold mentioned in the rules about 
compensating consumers.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which require a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
So, I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mr H about the commission levels in this particular 
case. It follows that I dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship and I dont 
therefore think Halifax treated Mr H unfairly.  This means it doesnt need to pay Mr H back 
any of the commission he paid for the PPI. 
However, in any event, Halifax has since offered to give back to Mr H some of the cost of the 
PPI to compensate Mr H as if it had treated him unfairly. I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
my decision
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipHaving considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set out 
above, I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Hs complaint. 
Ive also decided that Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, but it has already offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. It should 
therefore now make arrangements to pay him, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman