DRN-2529308
The complaint
Mr H complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has incorrectly declined his claim on his static 
caravan insurance.
What happened
Mr H put in a claim under his policy in May 2020 for the loss of use to his static caravan for 
the April to October 2020 season due to COVID-19. 
AXA declined Mr Hs claim. It said his policy didnt cover his site fees as a result of the 
governments directive to close the caravan park. It explained that the policy only covers loss 
of site fees in the event the caravan suffered loss or damage that rendered it uninhabitable. 
And it highlighted the exclusions which set out that loss of use outside of this wasnt 
covered. And also that indirect loss wasnt covered. Mr H disagreed and raised a complaint, 
but AXA didnt change its stance.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. It was passed 
to me for a decision and I contacted Mr H and said I was also minded not to uphold it.
I set out that to claim on the policy Mr H had to show an insured event had occurred. I 
explained I didnt consider Mr H had shown his caravan was uninhabitable due to the 
defined definition of damage, as a result of COVID-19. I said Id considered his point about 
the caravan being without utilities as these had been cut off. But I didnt consider this meant 
his caravan had suffered loss as these were a service provided to it, rather than part of it.
Mr H disagreed and explained that his caravan was rendered uninhabitable in two ways. He 
explained that the government had declared the caravan site had to close, so this resulted in 
the loss of use of his caravan. He said that if hed attempted to inhabit/use the caravan, both 
he and the caravan site operator would have broken the law. And then secondly, in 
complying with the law, the caravan became uninhabitable due to the loss of the services 
provided to it. He confirmed the utilities are provided (connected) to the caravan. Mr H also 
explained hed not pursued a claim like this before and that the policy should cover him for 
loss of use in this situation.
So Ive reviewed Mr Hs response and am now issuing a final decision on his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I understand Mr H is aware, when an individual wants to make a claim on their insurance, 
it is first for them to show an 'insured event' has occurred. Then it would be for the business 
to show an exclusion applied, if it considered this was the case. Mr H is looking to claim 
under Part 3 of his policy terms. In this section, under 'What is insured', it states:
If your static caravan is rendered uninhabitable by damage for which a claim is 
payable under Part 1 of this insurance we will pay...
And the word damage is in bold, so defined. The definition is as follows:
Damage(d)
Except where expressly stated otherwise, loss, theft, destruction or damage to the 
property insured
Mr H has explained that his caravan was deemed uninhabitable for two reasons. The first 
being that the caravan site was required to close by law, meaning he lost the use of his 
caravan.
While I accept the closure of the site and the law stating Mr H shouldnt stay in the caravan 
could mean it was uninhabitable, to claim the caravan itself had to be uninhabitable by 
damage. And a change in the law isnt loss, theft, destruction or damage to the caravan in 
itself. So I dont agree Mr Hs first reason meets the policy terms he needed to claim. I 
accept Mr H wasnt legally allowed to use the caravan, but (it could be argued) that this then 
makes the caravan uninhabitable by the law, not by damage. 
Moving to Mr Hs second reason, that the caravan was uninhabitable by loss of services, I 
accept this is closer to the above term. But, considering the terms and what the policy looks 
to cover, I dont agree with Mr H that this meets the required definitions either.
The caravan site had to close, so due to this it chose to switch off the utilities to Mr Hs 
caravan. While I understand why Mr H has described this as his caravan losing services, 
this isnt really the case. The insured property is exactly as it was before the site closure. 
And its ability to receive services is intact, they are just not switched on.
I accept Mr Hs example that his caravan would likely be deemed uninhabitable (if he could 
use it), but it was without a water supply. But, if this was an accepted claim, the policy would 
then look to cover Mr H while the situation was rectified. In his actual situation there was no 
problem with the water supply  it had just been switched off. The reality is that Mr H couldnt 
use the caravan, regardless of whether it had working utilities or not, due to the law. And its 
because of the law that the services had been switched off, not due to any problems with the 
supply or the utilities themselves. So the cause of the loss Mr H is describing is still not 
damage to his actual caravan; its the impact of COVID-19 and subsequent laws that were 
put in place. Neither of these meet the policy definition of damage. So I dont agree Mr H 
has shown theres been an insured event.
Following the process of a claim, as I dont accept Mr H has shown an insured event 
occurred, this means that I dont consider AXA does need to look to apply any exclusions. 
However, as AXA has set these out in its response and Mr H disagrees that the definition of 
damage hasnt been met, I do think its worth setting them out here.
AXA has quoted, under the exclusions, that Mr Hs policy says it doesnt cover Indirect loss. 
This is set out as:
This insurance does not cover loss or damage of any nature which is not directly 
caused by the event that caused you to claim unless as expressly stated as covered
As Ive explained above, I havent seen anything to show COVID-19 itself caused any 
damage to Mr Hs caravan. And his argument that the caravan site had to close by law, so 
as a result of this his services were temporarily stopped, is an example of indirect loss. Had the government not closed the site due to COVID-19, the services wouldnt have been cut 
off. So while I dont agree hes shown hes suffered an insured event, even if he had, I cant 
see how it would be covered under this policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2021. 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman