DRN-3397785
The complaint
G complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited handling of its legal expenses 
insurance claim.
Any reference to RSA includes its agents.
What happened
G experienced trouble with one of its customers regarding non-payment. It says it tried to 
contact its broker, to start a claim but it was never able to make contact. This was during the 
national lockdown. It has subsequently heard that its broker was still operating at the time.
G had heard that the customer might go into administration and so it believed time to be of 
the essence. It appointed a solicitor recommended through its trade association. The case 
was settled and whilst G didnt get all the money owed, it accepted an offer from the 
customer.
During this time, G has said it attempted multiple times to reach its broker, but the line would 
ring out. It has also said it got through to RSA on one occasion but was told it had to go 
through its broker to claim.
RSA was eventually notified of the claim by the broker on 4 February 2021. It allocated an 
agent to act on its behalf as it was a legal expense claim and sent a claim form which was 
returned on 10 February. On 19 February, RSA declined the claim as it had already been 
settled.
G disputed this; RSA continued to endorse its decision. A formal complaint was raised on 
2 April and a final response letter was issued on 25 May 2021.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She noted that the policy 
required G to notify RSA immediately if there was a dispute which may give rise to legal 
proceedings and that RSA wouldnt pay any legal fees incurred before its consent had been 
given to incur such fees. She felt she didnt have sufficient evidence to say that G had tried 
to call either its broker or had called RSA because RSA couldnt locate a call recording and 
G hadnt provided anything which showed when the calls were made. She noted that there 
were other ways that G could have made a claim such as phoning RSAs 24-hour claim line 
or writing to RSA. 
She felt that G by settling before RSA was notified had adversely affected RSAs decision-
making ability in relation to the claim. So, she thought it was reasonable that it was not 
covering the legal expenses.
G didnt agree with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
When I looked at what G had said about the claim and the policy, I thought it was possible 
that even if G had made a claim it wouldnt have been covered. I asked the investigator to 
explain this to G and to ask for more information about the call it says it made to RSA.
G said when it phoned RSA it told G it couldn't log the claim with it directly as G had a broker 
and G had to go through the broker. Gs officer said he did explain that it couldnt get hold of 
the broker but said he was told RSA couldn't take the claim and that it would have to wait 
until G could contact the broker directly. G said if the claim wasnt covered the policy wasnt 
fit for its use.
G said it didnt have a copy of the policy but did provide the papers it did have.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said:
I want to make clear that I am looking at the actions of RSA and its agent. I am not looking 
into the actions of the broker. I cant therefore consider any claim that the policy wasnt fit for 
Gs use as RSA didnt sell the policy. 
I understand Gs directors frustration. It had to move fast as it believed that its debtor was 
about to go into administration, and it couldnt reach its broker. It says when it rang RSA it 
was told it had to go through the broker.
But for me to uphold its complaint I have to find that RSA did something wrong. 
G says it called its broker on numerous occasions. It says it couldnt make contact because 
everyone was in lockdown. I appreciate this was a difficult time to contact a number of 
organisations. The policy and policy summary however both state that to make a claim a 
claimant must phone the claims helpline. I therefore dont think it would be fair to hold RSA 
responsible for the claim not being raised at the correct time because G couldnt get through 
to the broker.
G says it did speak to RSA once, but RSA told G that it would need to make the claim 
through Gs broker. I asked G for as much detail as possible about this call and why it didnt 
call or write to RSA in the days that followed that call (as it was required to do under the 
policy terms). 
G didnt provide me with much detail about the call just a broad description of what it says 
was said. If Gs officers account of the call was accurate and complete, I would agree that 
RSA had let G down. But I dont think it is. Gs officer strikes me as someone who having 
finally got through to a person wouldnt just accept that he needed to ring the broker. I think if 
he had been told that he would have pushed the matter further at that time. I also dont think 
it is likely that RSA would tell a claimants officer that he needed to go through the broker. I 
think it is most likely that over the time that has elapsed Gs officers recollection of events 
has become confused and that G didnt contact RSA until after it had settled with its debtor.
The policy makes clear that in the event of a dispute RSA needs to be notified in writing 
immediately. I have seen no evidence that G notified RSA in writing until after it had settled 
with its debtor. The policy also makes clear that before legal expenses are incurred consent 
for those expenses must be obtained from RSA otherwise the expenses will not be covered. 
This is a very standard term in legal expenses policies as it ensures an insurers interests 
are protected. No such consent was obtained by G. 
When G was unable to make contact about its claim with its broker it would have been 
prudent for it to read its policy documents (including the schedule it provided to me) and to 
follow what they said, that is to notify RSA of the claim immediately. If RSA had been notified 
of the claim it would have had the chance to look at the claim and assess it under the terms of the policy. It may or may not have found it to be a valid claim. It may have agreed different 
terms with the solicitors appointed to represent G and a different conclusion may have been 
reached. We cant know because RSA wasnt given the chance because it wasnt advised of 
the claim at the right time. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Gs officer. Although not strictly 
relevant to the complaint I do want to point out that in the complaint form G said it was out 
£26,000. The policy, however, only covers claims arising out of contractual disputes for 
£5,000. It seems very likely therefore that had G notified RSA of the claim it wouldnt have 
been covered under the policy in any event.
Responses to my provisional decision
RSA accepted my provisional decision.
G did not. It said it thinks RSAs rejection of the claim is unfair because its officers acted in 
Gs best interests. It reiterated it couldnt get hold of its brokers and that on the one occasion 
it spoke to RSA it was told that it had to go through the broker as the broker would have all 
the details of its policy. Gs officer said he explained in detail its situation and that it needed 
to act quickly. It says RSA said it needed to keep trying the broker. G thinks RSA should 
have taken details of the claim. And it should have kept a recording of the call. It also 
referred to the exclusions and limitations on the policy and says it isnt aware of any of these 
in its paperwork which would have prevented a successful claim. It raised the issue of 
whether it had been mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, I want to make it clear that I am looking at the 
actions of RSA and its agent. I am not looking into the actions of the broker. I cant therefore 
consider any claim that the policy wasnt fit for Gs use as RSA didnt sell the policy. 
As I also said in my provisional decision, if Gs officers account of the call was accurate and 
complete, I would agree that RSA had let G down. But I am not persuaded the account of 
the call is accurate. I just dont think it is likely that RSA wouldnt have accepted the claim or 
that G would have accepted that it had to continue trying to get through to a broker that 
never answered.
I dont draw any adverse conclusion from RSA not having a copy of the call as it seems any 
call that was made didnt give RSA enough information to open a claim until the broker 
contacted it.
I think the first RSA was aware of the claim was after the dispute had been settled. I also 
think the policy is clear that RSA should be notified immediately of the claim and that before 
legal expenses are incurred consent for those expenses must be obtained from RSA 
otherwise the expenses will not be covered. I therefore dont think RSA did anything wrong 
when it declined the claim and I will not be upholding this complaint.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman