DRN-3218610
The complaint
Ms S complained about her motor insurance broker I Go 4 Ltd (IG4) because it told her she 
could have an extension of time to fit a device required by her insurance policy to her car, 
but then told her it had made a mistake. 
What happened
Ms Ss policy required her to fit a black box to her car which sends information about her 
driving to the insurer. The cost of the policy is based on Ms S driving in a certain way so that 
a particular score is achieved. The documents provided by the insurer warn that if the device 
isnt fitted within 14 days of the cover being arranged, the policy will be cancelled. 
Ms S thought she might not be able to fit the box to the car within the timeframe and she 
called IG4 to ask for an extension. IG4 said that was up to the insurer, but it would ask. The 
insurer told IG4 that, to consider an extension it needed certain information. IG4 asked Ms S 
to provide this and she initially said she couldnt. Then she got some of it to IG4 but not all. 
Following multiple calls between Ms S and IG4, an IG4 call handler told Ms S that she could 
install the box outside of the initial timeframe given and the policy wouldnt be cancelled. But 
that advice, which had been confirmed to Ms S verbally and in an email, was wrong  the 
handler had been wrong and hadnt been in a position to give such an assurance. Ms S was 
told within a couple of hours that, contrary to the verbal and written assurance shed been 
given, an extension had not been granted by the insurer.
The insurer cancelled Ms Ss policy the following day. She was assured that only the fact of 
the cancellation would be recorded  not who had instigated it. And IG4 said it would waive 
the £75 cancellation fee. It said, looking at payments Ms S had made and other charges due 
and owing on the policy, such as the £150 new business fee, she owed £90.93. Ms S 
complained to us. 
Our investigator accepted IG4 had given Ms S incorrect information. But he noted that 
incorrect advice post-dated the date on which the insurer had said and maintained that the 
box had to be installed by. He also noted the cancellation fee had been waived. In the 
circumstances he didnt think IG4 needed to do anything more. Ms S asked for an 
ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IG4 has accepted an error was made when its handler told Ms S she could install the box 
outside the stated deadline set by the insurer without penalty of cancellation. Having heard 
the calls between Ms S and IG4 I think its clear that the handler which gave Ms S this 
assurance was mistaken. Having seen the correspondence from IG4s file, I think he clearly 
overlooked key information. Namely that a specific date for installation  beyond which 
cancellation would occur  had been set and not amended by the insurer. But also that the 
date set by the insurer had, at that time, already passed. But I note the handler quickly 
(within a couple of hours) realised he had been mistaken and acted to call Ms S to correct 
the position. 
I think its unfortunate that this mistake occurred. And I accept it would have been frustrating 
for Ms S to learn that the assurance, given both verbally and in writing, was wrong. I can 
understand why shed think that should have bound the insurer to not cancel the policy, or at 
least have meant that IG4 should have been able to step in and make sure this didnt 
happen. But I bear in mind that until this call Ms S had been told on multiple occasions that 
the decision to extend the period for fitting the box was one for the insurer to make and, that 
for it to decide that, certain information needed to be supplied which hadnt been. I also bear 
in mind that with each telling of this by IG4, Ms S objected in some way  she was clearly 
very keen to have an extension for fitting of the box agreed.
I think IG4 could have handled things better at times. And its fair to say that its handler 
should have taken better care to understand the correct position before offering assurances 
to Ms S. If he had he would have avoided erroneously giving Ms S what she had wanted 
from IG4 but wasnt entitled to in the circumstances. Whilst I know Ms S is unhappy that the 
policy was cancelled, that was always for the insurer to decide to do. But for the upset she 
was caused by the mistaken assurances given by IG4, Im satisfied that it waiving the £75 
cancellation fee fairly and reasonably makes up for that. 
In arranging the cover Ms S was told about the £150 new business fee, and that it wasnt 
refundable upon cancellation of cover. Despite her concerns over the contact she had with 
IG4 she knew her policy may cancel if she didnt fit the box as she had agreed to do by 
arranging the cover. And as the box wasnt fitted the policy did cancel. I think it would be 
unfair and unreasonable for me to require IG4 to return this fee, or any part of it, to Ms S.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against I Go 4 Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman