DRN-3375789
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M are unhappy Zurich Assurance Ltd declined their critical illness insurance 
claim. 
For ease, Ill refer to Mr M throughout my decision. 
What happened
In December 2003 Mr Ms joint life and critical illness cover began. Sadly, around May 2020, 
Mr M was diagnosed with Mitral Valvuloplasty. In September 2020 he had a Percutaneous 
Transvenous Mitral Commissurotomy (PTMC) procedure. Following this Mr M made a claim 
to Zurich. But Zurich declined the critical illness claim. It said Mr M hadnt had open heart 
surgery, so he hadnt met the terms and conditions of his policy. But it decided to accept and 
backdate a claim under the Waiver of Premium benefit which meant its paying the monthly 
premiums on his behalf. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that although he 
understood Mr M was in poor health, he didnt think the heart surgery he had was covered 
under the terms and conditions of the policy. He added that critical illness policies couldnt 
cover every serious health condition, and he didnt think Zurich had treated Mr M unfairly.
Mr M disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said his consultant decided 
that open heart surgery wasnt required and chose key-hole surgery instead. He said that 
since his policy started, there had been advancement in technology which meant open heart 
surgery wasnt always necessary. And he didnt think it was fair for Zurich to decline the 
claim on the difference between the two surgeries. He said his health was deteriorating and 
he may need further medical assistance. He added that he was struggling financially, and 
this policy was there to protect his mortgage. But his circumstances were causing a great 
deal of stress to him and his family. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing news for 
Mr M, which is made worse given his current state of health. I want to assure him that I didnt 
take this decision lightly. I understand this is an incredibly difficult time for him and his family. 
While I dont want to add to his distress, I cant say Zurich has treated him unfairly. Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
I should explain that in considering this complaint its not for me to reach a medical opinion 
on whether Mr M met the below definition. Instead, I have to consider whether Zurich 
assessed the claim fairly and reasonably in light of the medical evidence and opinions it was 
presented with at the time. Having carefully considered all the available evidence, Im 
satisfied that it did. 
Mr Ms policy says that for a heart attack claim to be accepted it must meet the following 
definition;
Heart valve replacement or repair  Undergoing open heart surgery, from medical 
necessity to replace or repair one or more heart valves.
Mr Ms diagnosis and treatment isnt in dispute here. Rather I have to consider whether or 
not the PTMC procedure meets the above definition. Zurich says Mr M didnt have open 
heart surgery so his claim wasnt covered. Mr M is unhappy because he said that without 
advancements in technology, he wouldve had open heart surgery around the time the policy 
was taken out. 
The policy doesnt define open heart surgery. So, Ive taken it as a procedure  based upon 
its dictionary meaning  where the chest is opened, and surgery is performed on the heart. 
The first word in the PTMC procedure Mr M had is Percutaneous which means  again in 
the dictionary  done or effected through the skin. So, Im satisfied Zurich has fairly decided 
Mr M didnt have open heart surgery. 
I understand the points Mr M has made and Id like to reassure him that Im aware of the 
financial difficulties caused by his diagnosis. But Im not satisfied Zurich has treated him 
unfairly here. Applying specific definitions and conditions such as this is standard practice for 
these types of policies. Its up to Zurich which definitions of a critical illness its willing to 
cover through its underwriting. This policy covers a large variety of different illnesses, so I 
dont think it is unreasonable for the specifics of each condition to be explained in detail. Nor 
is it unreasonable for Zurich to rely on the wording of its policy to decide what type of surgery 
its willing to cover. 
I dont doubt the seriousness of Mr Ms current health, but I need to be satisfied from the 
evidence that he had open heart surgery to ask Zurich to accept this claim. And Mr M 
doesnt dispute that his PTMC was key-hole surgery. I appreciate given his circumstances 
why he says this isnt fair but Im afraid I dont agree - for the reasons Ive explained above. 
So, Im not going to ask Zurich to take any further action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman