DRN-3222421
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) concerning a solar 
panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs H are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around August 2016 Mr and Mrs H were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about buying a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their home. 
After a visit from a representative of P, Mr and Mrs H decided to buy the system, and to 
finance it through a 15-year fixed-sum loan from Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In April 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf under section 
75 of the Act. The CMC said that P had cold-called Mr and Mrs H. It says Ps representative 
told Mr and Mrs H that the system would be self-funding by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) 
payments and savings on Mr and Mrs Hs electricity bills. But that had turned out not to be 
true. And it said it was this misrepresentation that had induced Mr and Mrs H to enter into 
the contract with P. 
In its final response to the complaint, Shawbrook said it didnt agree that the system had 
been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs H, or that there was any other reason for the claim to be 
upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs H, and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view. It said, in summary:
The sales meeting would have been based almost entirely on Ps representatives 
verbal representations.
Mr and Mrs H say they never saw the quote and didnt receive a copy of it after the 
sales meeting. Although Ps representative talked about a lot of figures and 
information, they werent shown the figures and graphs in the quote, and Ps 
representative never explained them.
Mr and Mrs H werent given a chance to read the information on Ps representatives 
laptop before signing the paperwork. So they didnt have a chance to consider the 
figures properly, and relied only on what Ps representative told them.
Mr and Mrs Hs actual monthly loan payment isnt shown in the quote, and they 
werent shown the page in the quote which sets out the different monthly payment 
options.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act. Section 75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs H paid for the system with a fixed-sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This allows Mr and Mrs H to claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs H and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
Ive been provided with copies of the credit agreement and the solar quote, titled Your 
Personal Solar Quotation. Ive looked at these in detail, and have considered whether they 
support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process. I acknowledge that the CMC continues to 
question this, and the points that its raised in response to the adjudicators view largely 
revolve around this. 
Ive carefully considered the points that the CMCs made, along with those made by 
Shawbrook on Ps behalf. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quote document did 
form a central part of the sales process with P when Mr and Mrs H agreed to enter into the 
contract for the system. So Im not persuaded, on balance that the sales meeting was, as the 
CMC has said, based almost entirely on Ps representatives verbal representations. And 
I consider the quote to be relevant, alongside Mr and Mrs Hs recollection of the sale, when 
considering if there were any untrue statements of fact.Ive also borne in mind that the CMC has said that Mr and Mrs H werent given a copy of the 
quote. Shawbrook has given us detailed information explaining Ps sale processes. This 
shows that it was Ps normal practice to email this document to their customers shortly after 
the initial meeting. Based on our experience of what weve seen in similar cases, Im 
satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that P would have sent a copy of the quote to Mr 
and Mrs H.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest rate to be charged, 
the total charge for credit, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The CMC says that Mr and Mrs H agreed to buy the system at a cash price of £9,450, but 
that due to the use of an interest-bearing loan, the real cost was £18,380.80.
I accept that the quote provided to Mr and Mrs H shows the cost of the system as £9,450. 
This is supported by the credit agreement, which shows the total cash price as £9,450. The 
total amount of credit is shown as £9,350, as Mr and Mrs H paid a £100 deposit. But it then 
goes on to show clearly the total amount payable as £18,380.80.
The quote is also clear that thered be a monthly loan repayment due, as set out in the table 
below. So Im satisfied that the quote and the credit agreement made it clear that although 
the cash price of the system was £9,450, it would cost Mr and Mrs H more than this, as 
theyd decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
Self-funding
Mr and Mrs H have alleged that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and savings on their electricity bills. 
Ive considered the quote, and have considered whether this supports what Mr and Mrs H 
have said. The System Analysis section of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and 
Mrs H could expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into 
the expected FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. 
The FIT scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs H could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £126.59.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs H could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity saving is shown as £220.47. Taking into account 
the optional extras which Mr and Mrs H chose, the combined income and savings figure for 
year one is shown as £535.22. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60, 120 
and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months, as this is the length of the loan 
that Mr and Mrs H entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as repayable in 
180 monthly payments of £99.90. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows the expected 
grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and 
subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £99.90, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs H could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, and the monthly loan repayments that would be due. Ive 
considered the table above, which sets out the estimated average monthly return from the 
system, and the effect on that return of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im satisfied 
that the table is clear and easy to understand.
I think this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. Im satisfied 
that the quote is clear that thered be a shortfall between the expected return and the 
monthly loan repayments. And Im not satisfied that they were told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
However, I do accept that Mr and Mrs H were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a duration of time. 
The quote includes a table headed Estimated performance over 30 years. This shows that 
by year 18 the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs H could expect to receive would have 
exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs H that the system would pay for itself by year 18, as 
supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and if I were satisfied 
that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they subsequently suffered a 
loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system, and whether its in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs H. The MCS certificate shows that the system was 
expected to produce 1,904.25 kWh a year. The quote shows a slightly lower estimated figure 
of 1,888 kWh a year.
Ive been provided with Mr and Mrs Hs FIT statements covering the period from 22 
September 2016 to 14 June 2019. I calculate that they show that their system has, on 
average, generated 1,886.79 kWh a year. Although this is very slightly less than estimated 
by P at the point of sale, Im satisfied that the system is performing, within a reasonable 
tolerance, as expected.
Ive also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. Im 
satisfied that Ps methods for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. Ive looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than P predicted at the point of sale. I think this 
explains why Mr and Mrs H havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the saving achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As Ive explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available from 
the ONS covering 2006 to 2015. And based on this, I dont consider that it was unreasonable 
for P to use them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs H 
could expect from the system. So, while I appreciate that the return may not have been as 
high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to P using 
unreasonable assumptions when Mr and Mrs H entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that P didnt make any untrue statement of fact that induced Mr and Mrs H to enter 
into the contract for the system. And Ive found no other reason to uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman