DRN-3088287
The complaint
Miss M complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund payments she says she didnt make from 
her account.
What happened
Miss M says that after she opened an account with TSB she didnt receive her card or PIN. 
She had though been using this account for her business and received credits. And 
payments had been made with her card that she disputes totalling £854.13.
TSB said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It said in a final response to Miss M that it 
hadnt seen a point of compromise of her details for the payments. It said she might want to 
contact police who could obtain CCTV. It also told Miss M that it would be closing her 
account and it sent her a cheque for the remaining balance which was its standard process.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. The account had been 
opened on 25 November 2020. TSB had arranged for the card and PIN to be sent from 
separate locations and these were dispatched on different days. It was unclear why Miss M 
hadnt asked where these were until her call of 22 December 2020 especially as her account 
was being used regularly to receive money. The disputed payments started on 20 December 
with a cash withdrawal of £500. No balance enquiry had been made and there were no 
incorrect PIN attempts. There had been money left in the account which was unusual if a 
fraudster had access to it. And Miss M had been checking her account almost every day 
since she set up online banking in early December 2020 except for the days when the 
disputed payments were made.
Miss M didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said she had problems 
with her post and had a lot going on at this time. She had been waiting for the card. She 
didnt think that anyone in her household could have intercepted the card and PIN and used 
it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened but Im thinking about what is most likely.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Miss M wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Miss M authorise the payments on the account?
Im satisfied that the payments were authenticated using Miss Ms card and the correct PIN. 
The issue is whether she consented to them.
TSB has shown that the card and PIN were dispatched within two days of the account being 
opened. These were sent separately. Miss M hasnt provided evidence to support there 
being problems with her post and didnt follow things up with TSB until 22 December 2020. 
Miss M hasnt identified anyone who could have intercepted the post at the address and who 
would have known that the card and PIN were due. And Id have expected a third party in 
possession of the card and PIN to access the account as quickly as possible and not wait 
and risk discovery.
In the meantime, the account was being used and payments credited  including ones it 
seems from Miss M for a total of £500 on 17 December 2020. Ive seen the online logs 
showing Miss M accessing her account. In the run up to the disputed payments she 
accessed her account every day except 13 December 2020. But she didnt access it on 
either 20 or 21 December 2020, the day the payments were taken. 
The first payment was a withdrawal of £500 on 20 December 2020 and no check of the 
balance at the cash machine was made before that. And it is unclear how a third party would 
have known there were funds in the account and that the daily cash withdrawal limit was 
£500. After further payments were made that day there was a whole day before the last one 
on 21 December 2020. And there was still money in the account after that. To me this 
pattern of activity isnt that most likely of an unknown third party.
Having considered all the evidence and what Miss M has said Im not persuaded that these 
payments were made without her consent and I find she authorised them.
Following TSBs investigation, it decided to close her account and return the remaining funds 
and I think that was reasonable. I dont have a basis to require it to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman