DRN-2978010
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with charges applied by Mallard Leasing Limited trading as Mallard Finance 
(Mallard) following the termination of his agreement.
What happened
On 25 July 2019, Mr A was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Mallard. The agreement was for £6,336 over 36 months, with 35 monthly payments of £170 
and a final payment of £370.  At the time the car was more than 11 years old and had done 
99,423 miles.
Mr A said that he missed a few payments not long after entering into the agreement as he 
struggled to find work. He said Mallard chased him for payments and he found this added to 
the stress he felt from not having regular employment.
In May 2020, Mr A asked Mallard for a payment deferral as he said he was unable to work 
due to the Covid 19 pandemic.  He said they granted him the deferral, but he was unhappy 
that they charged him an extra £81 in interest. He said he thought the purpose of the deferral 
was to help him.
He said he found work abroad in June 2020, and during this time he said he couldnt access 
his emails. He said he missed payments, and then Mallard took steps to repossess the car. 
He said bailiffs arrived to clamp the car, and then the police arrived causing him 
embarrassment.
He said after they repossessed the car they said he still owed a further £3,830. He thinks 
this is excessive compared to the original cost of the car and what hes paid. After 
complaining they agreed to reduce the amount he owed, but he still felt this was excessive.
In July 2020 Mallard sold the car at auction for £1,650. The car was inspected as part of the 
auction process. This report showed that the car had done 110,611 miles, and there was 
damage to various parts of the bodywork. Mr A said there was no evidence he caused the 
damage, or whether or not it was present when he purchased the car. Hes unhappy that he 
has to pay because Mallard undervalued the car. He said an online valuation had given him 
an estimated value of £2,345.  He said he thought the purpose of the repossession was so 
that Mallard could cover their own losses.
Mallard said theyd agreed a payment deferral because Mr A was experiencing financial 
difficulty arising from the Covid 19 pandemic. They said theyd considered his request and 
initially agreed a deferral of one month as Mr A didnt know when work might restart, and a 
longer deferral would cost him more in interest.
They said they explained the terms of the deferral to Mr A in a telephone call and in writing. 
They also said they agreed to speak to him at the end of the month, and would review every 
month.
They said they repossessed the car because Mr A hadnt regularly made the payments 
required under the agreement, and he hadnt maintained contact with them. They said only 
two payments had been made in time since the agreement had started. They said they tried 
to contact him by telephone, text message, emails, and formal statement.
They said they felt it was in Mr As best interests to repossess the car as it would reduce the 
debt. They said they knew he had another car, and they made the decision without his input 
as they said he hadnt returned their calls or emails.
They said they were disappointed with the amount they received at auction for the car. They 
said this was due to market forces at the time, and because the car was not in a good 
condition.
Mr A was unhappy with Mallards response, and he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said that as Mr A hadnt kept Mallard informed of his situation, they were 
limited in what options were available to them. He said Mallard had accepted the financial 
difficulty he was in by removing the £81 interest charged for the payment deferral, the £300 
recovery charge, and offering £600 for the stress theyd caused him. He said theyd sold the 
car at auction and had no influence over the price obtained. But he didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Mallards actions left him in a worse 
financial situation, and without the car. He said hed been in regular contact with Mallard 
despite what theyd said. 
He also said that Mallard acted irresponsibly by lending him the money in the first place. This 
is the subject of a separate complaint and I wont be looking into this aspect. 
Because Mr A didnt agree with the investigator, the matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it.
Payment Deferral
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the industry regulator, issued temporary guidance, 
that came into effect on 27 April 2020, for customers who were faced with payment 
difficulties as a result of Covid-19. This guidance says a firm providing motor finance 
agreements should grant a payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers interest to do so.  
The guidance was intended for customers who were facing payment difficulties due to 
circumstances arising out of coronavirus. It wasnt intended for customers like Mr A who 
were already in financial difficulty. The guidance explained that for these customers the 
normal FCA guidance would apply, and firms like Mallard should consider other means, such 
as suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges, deferring 
payment of arrears or accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time.
Mr A had missed payments regularly. His direct debit regularly failed, and he frequently 
made payments later in the month than the agreed payment date. So, whilst his employment 
and financial situation may have worsened due to the pandemic, Im satisfied he was already 
in financial difficulty. So, I think it was reasonable for Mallard to consider a deferral on a 
month by month basis and they werent required to provide a three month deferral.
The guidance allowed for extra interest to be charged, but the firm must explain this to the 
customer. I can see that Mallard explained the extra interest on a phone call and in a letter 
sent to Mr A. But Im pleased to see they later decided to withdraw the charge. 
Repossession
After agreeing a one month deferral, the direct debit for the next payment failed. Ive 
reviewed Mallards contact notes and can see they attempted to contact Mr A by phone, by 
email, and by text message. They did this on several occasions on and between 2 July 2020 
and 20 July 2020.
They issued a termination notice on 21 July 2020, and promptly instructed a third party to 
repossess the car.
I note that Mallard sent arrears statements and default notices to Mr A on 3 January 2020, 
and on 2 July 2020. He was also sent regular messages throughout the agreement period 
informing him his direct debt had failed and the arrears due.
Mr A said he did contact Mallard. But the evidence hes provided showed he contacted them 
on only two occasions: in January 2020 to say he was abroad and would make his payment 
when he returned to the UK later in the month; and in May 2020 when he requested the 
payment deferral due to the Covid situation. 
The only other contact hes told us about was an email he sent to Mallard on 24 July 2020  
after Mallards agents had clamped the car. In this email he explained that hed been 
working abroad and his working environment meant he was unable to take calls. He also 
said a lack of data meant he was unable to pick up emails.
I have to consider whether or not Mallard were fair and reasonable in taking the decision to 
repossess the car. The agreement he entered into, like all hire purchase agreements, 
explained that the car remained Mallards property until all payments were made. It also 
made clear that Mallard may take possession of the car if payments were missed.
The terms state that payments must be made by direct debit and on time. And because this 
didnt happen, term 9 allowed Mallard to end the agreement when the terms were breached.
And the terms also stated that if Mallard ended the agreement early, as they did, then hed 
be liable for the outstanding balance of the Total Amount Payable, less any money they 
received from the sale of the car after theyd deducted the costs of recovery.Mallard wouldnt have been able to repossess the car without a court order if Mr A had paid 
at least one third of the total amount payable under the agreement. But as hed paid less 
than this amount, it was reasonable under the terms of the agreement for them to go ahead 
with the repossession.
Im satisfied that Mallard made many attempts to contact Mr A. When he failed to respond, 
and because there was a history of missed and late payments throughout the first 12 months 
of the agreement  all attracting arrears charges of £12, it was reasonable for them to decide 
that repossession was a suitable option. In less than 12 months since the agreement 
commenced, Mr A made one payment on time, five payments were late, and four were 
missed  not including the agreed payment deferral in June 2020.
They acted promptly, with an agent attending to start proceedings to repossess the car the 
day after the notice was issued to Mr A. But they didnt repossess immediately  they 
clamped the car, and provided a notice explaining next steps. Which prompted Mr A to call 
Mallard.
The FCA guidance on Covid-19 payment deferrals states that firms should not take steps to 
terminate the agreement or seek to repossess the vehicle where the customer is 
experiencing temporary payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to 
coronavirus and needs use of the vehicle. Ive explained above why this guidance doesnt 
apply, as Mr A was already experiencing payment difficulties.
Mr A offered to pay Mallard the outstanding balance immediately, but only if they removed 
the collection agent fee. When Mallard refused to remove this fee, Mr A told them to go 
ahead and collect the car. So I dont think it was unreasonable for them to do so.
Auction value
Mr A is unhappy with the amount the car sold for at auction. Ive seen the report that 
confirms the car went for auction in a poor condition. Mr A said the car couldve been in that 
condition when it was supplied to him. But he hasnt provided any evidence of that, and in 
the 12 months he had the car he never raised any quality issues with Mallard. So Im 
satisfied the car was in that condition after 12 months and more than 11,000 miles of usage.
The car was sold for auction for just under £700 less than the valuation Mr A was given by 
an online valuation. His valuation is a commercial valuation, one that is not guaranteed, and 
is also subject to other factors, including a full inspection before a price is confirmed. So Im 
satisfied Mallard achieved a reasonable price at auction.
Unlawful payments
Mr A said Mallard took unlawful payments from his account. He refers to the payments of 
£18.01 and £3.01 taken by Mallard in August and September 2020. These payments were 
taken under the direct debit scheme. The rules of this scheme say that:
If a Direct Debit payment has been collected which is not as outlined in the advance 
notice. i.e. more has been collected than the amount specified or the payment has 
been taken on the wrong date you are entitled to an immediate refund of the 
amount collected from your bank or building society under the Direct Debit 
Guarantee.
As Mallard had previously given Mr A advance notice of the dates and amounts to be 
collected, and because the amounts collected in August and September 2020 were less than 
the amount previously notified, Im satisfied Mallard hasnt done anything wrong here.So, for the reasons stated, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mallard to terminate the 
agreement, repossess the car, and seek the outstanding amount owed from Mr A.
I acknowledge that Mallard have withdrawn charges, and reduced the amount owed by 
£600. They should set out for Mr A how the outstanding amount has been arrived at. They 
should also consider his current financial situation and treat him with appropriate 
forbearance when considering an affordable payment plan. I think this is fair and I wont be 
asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Mallard Leasing Limited 
trading as Mallard Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman