DRN-4302827
The complaint
Mr J complains about interest applied to his credit card balance by NewDay Ltd during a 
balance transfer promotional period. 
What happened
In September 2022 Mr J applied for a branded credit card with NewDay. Mr Js explained 
that he wanted to take advantage of a balance transfer promotion that said he would receive 
six months at 0%. There was a 1.99% fee for balance transfers. 
In September 2022 Mr J completed a balance transfer of £1,000. A fee of £19.90 was 
applied. In October 2022 Mr J started to use the credit card for purchases and also 
completed a further £750 balance transfer at a cost of £14.93. 
On 23 October 2022 NewDay sent Mr J a statement that said purchases had been made 
and would attract interest. Mr Js explained he made a payment of £2,985 to cover the 
purchases hed made on the credit card and ensure no interest would be due.
Mr J continued to use the credit card for purchases in the belief that no interest would be 
incurred. Another statement was issued to Mr J on 23 November 2022. The statement 
showed that despite clearing the purchase balance hed been charged £48.87 of interest by 
NewDay. 
Mr J went on to raise a complaint about the interest applied to his account by NewDay. A 
final response was issued on 17 January 2023 and NewDay agreed to refund £48.87 of 
internet as a gesture of goodwill. But NewDay said that whilst Mr J could benefit from a six 
month interest free on balance transfer, no interest free period would apply to his purchases. 
As NewDay said the interest had been correctly applied it didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Js complaint and upheld it. They felt the 
information surrounding how interest is applied to balance transfer was unclear and led Mr J 
to proceed with his credit card application on the basis he could use the credit card for both 
0% balance transfers for the full promotional period and purchases as well. The investigator 
also asked NewDay to pay Mr J £75 for the trouble and upset caused. NewDay asked to 
appeal, so Mr Js complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been brief in setting out the timeline above as all parties broadly agree about what 
happened and when. Mr Js explained that he wouldnt have used the credit card in the way 
he did if hed realised that any purchases made in addition to the balance transfers he 
completed could mean interest would be incurred. I think its clear the credit card didnt work 
as Mr J was expecting. And I accept Mr Js statement that hed have made alternative 
arrangements if it hed understood how the credit card operates. 
NewDay says interest was applied in line with its balance transfer terms and conditions. Ive 
read the terms and whilst I understand NewDays view, I think Mr J also makes a reasonable 
point. The terms say that if the balance transfer funds are left on the account NewDay will 
charge interest on purchases made from the point they were added to the balance. But 
Mr Js explained he made payments to clear the purchases so that only the balance transfer 
funds would remain on the credit card. Whilst I understand that interest was applied in line 
with NewDays terms, in Mr Js case Im satisfied some confusion was caused. In the 
circumstances, I think the fairest approach is for NewDay to refund the interest he paid whilst 
the balance transfer promotion was in place. 
The investigator asked NewDay to refund interest already paid and administer Mr Js credit 
card balance transfer funds on a 0% interest rate for the remaining promotional period. But 
since Mr Js case was reviewed, those promotional periods have ended. The investigator 
recently contacted both parties to say that as the promotional period has now ended the 
settlement should be amended so that NewDay refunds all interest applied to Mr Js balance 
during that time. 
Mr J responded and advised hed made other arrangements and asked for the balance 
transfer fees to be refunded. But Im not persuaded to make a separate award for the fees 
as Mr J did complete balance transfers. With that being said, in addition to a refund of 
interest paid during the balance transfer period, I agree with the investigator that a payment 
of £75 for the trouble and upset caused is fair. For the reasons Ive given above, Im going to 
uphold Mr Js complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint and direct NewDay Ltd to settle as follows: 
- Refund all interest applied to Mr Js balance transfer funds during the promotional 
period
- Pay Mr J £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman