DRN-3832915
The complaint
Mr M has complained that T&R Direct Ltd mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 2008.
What happened
Mr M contacted his independent financial advisor (IFA) in 2008 in relation to insurance 
cover. The IFA acted as an introducer in relation to the PPI and passed Mr Ms details to 
T&R who subsequently sold him the policy over the phone.
I wrote a provisional decision last month in which I explained why I was minded to uphold the 
complaint and inviting any further comments or evidence from the parties. Mr M didnt 
respond. T&R said that it still didnt think it was at fault and that its already submitted 
evidence hadnt been looked at correctly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to assure T&R that I have fully considered all the information and evidence that it 
has provided. However, having done, so I consider that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.
As Neither Mr M nor T&R made any further submissions, I will reiterate the findings I made 
in my provisional decision.
Mr M doesnt recall having a phone discussion with T&R in which he was sold the PPI. 
Rather, he thinks the policy was set up with information provided by the IFA, without his 
direct input. However, the sale was in 2008 and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr M has no 
recollection of receiving a call. T&R has confirmed that its records show it was a phone sale 
and, based on the available evidence, Im persuaded that was most likely the case.
In terms of consenting to the policy, I think Mr M would have known that he was entering into 
some sort of agreement to buy insurance. The question is whether he knew what sort of 
policy it was that he was being sold.
Mr Ms discussions with the IFA at that time were based around income protection and 
critical illness policies, so its possible that some confusion was created there. However, that 
wouldnt be a problem as long as T&R explained the main features of the policy and that it 
provided cover for mortgage repayments.
Looking at the paperwork provided from the time of the sale, there appear to be some 
fundamental issues that would lead me to conclude that the sales process wasnt very 
thorough. The quotation and statement of demands and needs form talks about protecting 
rental payments rather than a mortgage, although the actual application form mentions cover 
being for the existing mortgage. And the address that T&R was using for Mr M was for a 
property that he hadnt lived at since 2003. Although T&R have said that the policy 
documentation would have been sent to Mr M by email as well as by post, it hasnt been 
able to provide any evidence of that. So I think its unlikely that Mr M received the policy 
documentation or schedule that would have alerted him to the type of cover that he had 
been sold.
Based on the available evidence, I consider that this was most likely an advised sale. Thats 
because the statement of demands and needs says that: In order to advise you about the 
suitability of this insurance we have asked you a series of questions in the form of a 
questionnaire to obtain all the relevant info about your circs and your needs. From your 
responses we have determined your demands and needs to be:. T&Rs final response letter 
of February 2021 also confirms that the policy was based on Mr Ms requirements.
I havent seen a copy of the questionnaire that was completed with Mr M. T&R has provided 
some slightly conflicting information about the questions that it asked. In an email to the IFA 
in August 2019 it said that a series of questions needed to be answered including details of 
address, cover requirements and benefit amounts. In an email to Mr M in October 2019 it 
said that it would have asked him a few underwriting proposal questions and then once that 
was completed and agreed it would have asked for his correspondence details and his bank 
details. I have no reason to believe that, if asked, Mr M would not have provided his current 
address.
T&R has subsequently told this service that it can understand not having the correct address 
as it used the one supplied by the IFA. Its also said that it was a non-advised sale and that it 
would only have asked four qualifying questions to ascertain eligibility. Having done that, it 
would then have asked Mr M the level of cover he required and then taken his email address 
and bank details to allow the insurer to set up the policy.
Ive already stated above that I believe this to have been an advised sale. This means that 
T&R had to ensure that the policy met Mr Ms needs. But the policy wasnt suitable for him 
because he already had existing cover (which I will expand on below). 
However, even if it wasnt an advised sale, T&R still needed to provide Mr M with sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether 
or not to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, 
fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions.
Clearly the main provision of the policy was that it was providing cover for mortgage 
repayments. Mr M has provided evidence that he already had a standalone mortgage PPI 
policy that he had taken out in 2002. Ive seen evidence that he contacted the provider in 
October 2008 to increase the benefit amount to reflect his increased mortgage repayments. 
Its therefore clear that he was actively managing his existing mortgage cover to ensure that 
it continued to meet his needs.
As such, Ive concluded that T&R did not provide Mr M with sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether or not to take out the 
policy. Because, if it had done so, I dont think hed have taken out a second mortgage PPI 
policy when he was fully aware that he already had one. It follows that I uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.
Putting things right
T&R should put Mr M in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out MPPI. 
The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and T&R should:Pay Mr M the amount he paid each month for the MPPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, T&R can take off what they got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and 
require T&R Direct Ltd to pay fair compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman