DRN-2186888
The complaint
Ms C says Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about two loans Satsuma provided to Ms C between March 2017 and May 
2017. Details of Ms Cs lending history, as evidenced by Satsuma, is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 12/03/2017 24/04/2017 6 £300.00 £94.80
2 09/05/2017 outstanding 9 £1000.00 £222.00
Our adjudicator thought about Ms Cs complaint and felt Satsuma had lent to her 
responsibly, so she didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint. Ms C disagreed so, the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain 
factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Ms C could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Cs complaint.
why I think Satsumas checks were proportionate for Ms Cs loan
For Ms Cs first loan of £300.00 she needed to payback monthly instalments £94.80. Ive 
seen a record of the information Ms C provided when she completed her loan application. 
Ms C said she had a monthly income of £1,500.00 and monthly expenses of £500.00. So, 
after deducting her regular monthly outgoings she was left with a disposable income of 
£1000.00 per month. So, it looked like she had enough money to make her payments under 
this loan agreement. Satsuma, in its affordability assessment, added in extra safeguards for 
Ms C and recorded her disposable income £813.62, to allow for some additional expenses in 
the month. Even with these safeguards in place it looks like Ms C had enough money to 
make her repayments of £94.80 per month. 
Similarly, for loan 2 Ms C borrowed £1,000.00 and had to pay back monthly instalments of 
£222.00. At this time Ms C had the same income and expenses. So, she still had a monthly 
disposable income of £1,000.00. Again, Satsuma added in some safeguards and recorded 
her monthly disposable income at £837.02. And even with these safeguards it looks like 
Ms C had more than enough to make her repayments for her second loan and so it seemed 
that this loan was affordable for her. 
Ms C says she lost her job during the term of loan 2 and that made this loan unaffordable for 
her. Ms C says at this point she went on benefits and these hardly met her monthly 
outgoings, so she was no longer able to afford the loan. Ive seen that Ms C went into 
arrears on her loan and this is still outstanding. Im sorry to hear Ms C has been suffering 
financial hardship since losing her job, but at the point Satsuma lent Ms C loans 1 and 2 Im 
satisfied that these loans were affordable for her and that Satsuma carried out a 
proportionate check of her circumstances before agreeing to the lending. 
It is of course possible that had Ms C taken further lending then Satsuma, as a reasonable 
lender, ought to have carried out further, more in-depth checks at that point. But considering 
Ms C hadnt taken out any prior loans with Satsuma, I dont think it had yet reached the 
stage where it needed to carry out further checks, such as verifying this information or 
enquiring into her wider financial circumstances. In any event, Ms C says she hit financial 
difficulty after she had taken out loan 2, and so this is not something Satsuma wouldve been 
able to consider at the point of agreeing to the loan. I havent seen any evidence or other information that Satsuma collected at the time that 
shows its likely it was made aware of any financial problems Ms C mightve been having. Or 
anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate Ms Cs circumstances further. So, I think it 
was reasonable for Satsuma to rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the affordability assessment Satsuma carried out 
for Ms Cs loans was proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Ms C in these 
circumstances was reasonable. So, Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint.
I appreciate that this decision will come as a disappointment for Ms C, but I want to assure 
her that Ive thought about and considered all the evidence that has been made available to 
me.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman