DRN-3447283
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that Barclays Bank Plc (trading as 
Barclaycard) mishandled its defence of a chargeback request.
Mr H, a director of S, brings the complaint on S's behalf.
What happened
In July 2021, a chargeback request was raised against S. Barclays held the amount subject 
to the request while it was investigated. S provided its defence and, in August, the withheld 
amount was returned to S.
In September, the same customer re-submitted the chargeback request but for a slightly less 
amount. Barclays wrote to S explaining the chargeback and inviting S's defence by late 
September.
In October, having not received a response, Barclays wrote to S again to invite Ss defence. 
It also explained that it would withdraw the amount subject to the chargeback from Ss 
account.
Later in October, having not received a response, Barclays wrote to S again with the 
outcome. Barclays explained that the information provided by S in response to the first 
chargeback was deemed insufficient to defend the amended chargeback and, as no further 
defence had been offered, it could not defend the chargeback any further. It said the amount 
withdrawn from Ss account would not be reversed. 
Mr H complained. He said that he had never received the three letters which Barclays 
claimed it sent in September and October. He said, for this reason, he was unaware of the 
amended chargeback, and he wanted Barclays to reinstate the funds it had withdrawn.
Barclays confirmed that the address to which it had sent the letters was the correct address 
and explained that, as set out in the terms and conditions of its agreement with S, if any 
notice is sent by first-class post, it will be treated as being received even if it is not 
delivered. Barclays said it had processed the chargeback appropriately  in accordance with 
both the rules set out by the card scheme and with the terms and conditions of its agreement 
with S. It therefore said it had done nothing wrong and refused to reimburse the money.
Not content with this response, Mr H brought Ss complaint to our service. Our investigator 
explained to S that the decision to reject Ss defence of the chargeback was made by the 
card scheme and therefore was not something we could consider. She investigated Ss 
complaint against Barclays but found that it had conducted the defence of the chargeback 
appropriately. She found that as Barclays hadnt received any further evidence from S to 
present to the card scheme in response to the amended chargeback request, there was 
nothing more it could have done.
Mr H didnt agree, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained by our investigator, the decision to accept the chargeback request was a 
decision for the card scheme to make. Therefore, I am unable to consider that decision here. 
Mr H has presented considerable evidence about the sale S made to its customer, the 
product that it supplied, and the works which were completed. He has provided photos and 
documentation to demonstrate that the customer received the product and was therefore 
liable to pay for it. However, it is not for me to decide whether the chargeback request should 
have been accepted by the card scheme or not. That is a matter for the card scheme. The 
subject of this complaint is whether Barclays made any mistake in its handling of the 
chargeback request.
It is not in dispute that, in response to the chargeback request made in July 2021, Barclays 
explained the chargeback to S, S provided information and evidence back to Barclays, and 
Barclays passed this to the card scheme. Both Barclays and S thought the chargeback had 
been successfully defended and the funds were restored to Ss account. 
However, in September 2021, the customer then raised an amended chargeback request. 
Barclays wrote to S to notify it of this request, but these letters were not received in time. 
With no further evidence being provided, the card scheme decided to accept the chargeback 
request. 
This raises two questions for me to consider in this complaint against Barclays:
- Did Barclays do anything wrong in how it made S aware of this second chargeback 
request such that it should be held responsible for no further information or evidence 
being provided to the card scheme?
- Should Barclays have done anything more to help defend S against this chargeback 
request even without any further information or evidence from S?
Making S aware of the chargeback request
When a chargeback request is made, the merchant has a limited period in which to submit 
their response to the card scheme. Therefore, it is important that they are informed as 
quickly as possible about the chargeback, and that any information they provide is passed 
on to the card scheme.
In this case, I can see on Barclays records that it sent three letters in September and 
October 2021 to notify S of this chargeback request. The address to which it sent the letters 
is the correct address. S has also said that its post is sometimes delivered to the wrong 
place. From this evidence, I believe it is more likely than not that the letters were sent to the 
right address but, unfortunately, they were not received until several weeks later when it was 
too late to respond.
Barclays terms and conditions make clear that it will deem letters sent in the way they were 
here to be received even if they are not delivered. In the circumstances of this case, I 
consider that reasonable. Therefore, I cannot say that Barclays did anything wrong in how it 
sought to make S aware of the chargeback request. For that reason, I dont think it would be 
fair to hold it responsible for the fact no further information or evidence was provided to the 
card scheme to defend the chargeback.Should Barclays have done anything more to help defend S against the chargeback
The letter Barclays sent S in September 2021 to request further evidence to defend the 
chargeback said: to defend the chargeback you are required to provide us with signed 
delivery proof or any compelling evidence or any photograph or tracking details. Also, 
provide us with the companys terms and conditions and the cancellation and refund policy 
which was agreed by the cardholder.
In response to the first chargeback request, S had already provided to Barclays both photos 
of the product at the customers site and delivery documentation signed by the courier. 
Barclays had passed this to the card scheme. However, Barclays letters in September and 
October to S make clear that more evidence was needed.
It is not for me to say whether there was information or evidence S could have provided 
through Barclays to the card scheme which would have persuaded it to reject the 
chargeback request. However, as Barclays had no further information or evidence from S to 
provide to the card scheme, I do not believe it could have done any more.
It is deeply unfortunate that S didnt receive the letters sent by Barclays and therefore didnt 
provide more evidence to defend itself against this chargeback request. I am aware of the 
material financial cost to S. However, I believe Barclays processed the chargeback request 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of its agreement with S. In the circumstances of 
this case, I dont think it could reasonably have done any more. Therefore, while I have great 
sympathy for Mr H and his business, I do not require Barclays to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman