DRN-4091178
The complaint 
Company P (P) complain Epayments Systems Ltd (Epayments) blocked their accounts 
and withheld the funds held in them.   
What happened
On 11 February 2020 the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) placed 
limitations on Epayments. As a result Epayments were not able to process any transactions 
until the limitations were lifted. So, because of this P couldnt access their funds.
In December 2022, Epayments sent P a final response to their complaint. In short, 
Epayments explained that its business activities had been closed for the last three years 
because of weaknesses in its financial crime controls as identified by the FCA.  
Epayments also explained it had begun the process of ceasing its business activities and 
entering a solvent wind-down. And that it was now focused on providing its customers with 
full refunds - and it will continue to safeguard any funds until it is able to do so. 
Epayments also said that refunds will be made once it, and its banking partners, are able to 
complete certain checks. P referred their complaint to this service. 
Epayments explained the FCA was aware it had to temporary pause its refund process since 
October 2022 to ensure it met legal obligations. But that it was still asking P for information 
so that it could issue a refund when it was possible to so.
One of our Investigators looked into Ps complaint. In summary, they found:
- Epayments isnt currently able to refund Ps money. But it should refund P the money 
held in their accounts when its able to complete any further checks required by the 
FCA  
- Epayments is responsible for P not having access to their funds. Thats because its 
accounts were restricted due to weaknesses in its financial crime controls that were 
identified by the FCA
- As P were deprived of their funds, Epayments should compensate them by paying 
8% simple interest on them from when they were first blocked up until settlement
- Epayments should pay P £150 compensation for the inconvenience theyve caused
- Epayments, and its partners, may have charged currency conversion fees and 
commissions when refunding any balances. Its not fair for P to pay any fees or 
charges for accessing their funds  so Epayments should refund such fees and 
charges if imposed against P
P agreed with what our Investigator said. Epayments then made alternative offers to P which 
ranged from £750 compensation to 1% of the balance, plus £150 compensation for 
inconvenience caused. P refused these offers. 
Epayments have made no comments in response to what our Investigator said on this 
complaint. But Im aware it doesnt agree with this service awarding 8% simple interest, 
saying amongst other things, that it will affect its ability to wind-down in an orderly manner. 
Epayments has however said that its KYC team have completed its checks for P, and the 
accounts are now ready to be refunded.  
As Epayments have made alternative offers to that of our Investigator, and as it hasnt told 
us whether it agrees with what they said, I must now decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
As a regulated business, Epayments has certain obligations which it must comply with. 
Epayments is subject to regulation by the FCA. The FCA applied restrictions on Epayments 
for reasons widely publicised and also detailed on its company website. As a result, 
Epayments suspended its operations. This significantly impacted P, given they have had no 
access to their funds since February 2020.
Whilst the FCA requested Epayments to suspend its activities there was nothing it could 
have done in relation to returning Ps funds. Epayments say it shouldnt be held liable for any 
detriment to P whilst the FCAs limitations were imposed. 
After carefully considering this, Im not persuaded its fair or reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint to find Epayments didnt do anything wrong. I say that because Epayments 
had to suspend its operations due to failures on its part. So I think Epayments should put 
things right by addressing the fact P was deprived of their funds through no fault of their 
own.
Epayments has recently told this service, as I said above, that it is now in a position to return 
the funds to P. As a regulated business, Epayments must comply with extensive legal and 
regulatory obligations. These generally cover the entire period of its customer relationship  
from application to eventually the end of the relationship. This includes Know Your Customer 
(KYC) checks and/or Customer Due Diligence (CDD).
So any refund of funds should have been subjected to these checks. Its worth noting these 
checks include not just the verification of a customers identity, but also establishing the 
purpose and intended nature of the business relationship and origin of funds.
As P has been deprived of its funds because of Epayments failings, Im persuaded it should 
pay 8% simple interest from the date the accounts were blocked to when they are refunded. 
Awarding 8% simple interest when a consumer has wrongly been deprived of their funds is 
in line with the approach at this service. I havent seen compelling enough reasons as to why 
P shouldnt be awarded compensation in this way, so Im satisfied this is fair redress.
Im aware Epayments is going through a winding down process. To be clear, its not my 
intention to interfere with Epayments winding down of its business  thats not the role of our 
service. My role here is ultimately to decide what a fair way to resolve individual complaints 
between businesses and their customers, based on the individual facts of the complaint.Im also satisfied £150 compensation is fair award for the inconvenience this matter has 
likely caused P. In reaching this award, Ive considered P has been inconvenienced when 
chasing Epayments for answers, and how having such a substantive sum withheld in this 
way would cause added inconvenience especially as they say its started to affect their 
ability to do business.
I dont think its fair or reasonable for Epayments, or its banking partners, to charge P any 
conversion or commission fees if these have been applied  or will be. So if any such 
charges have been made, or are intended, they should be refunded to P.
Putting things right
To put things right, Epayments must:
- Pay 8% simple interest on the funds held in Ps accounts from when it first restricted 
their access up until settlement*
- Not apply any fees or charges for releasing any funds to P  as detailed above. If it or 
its banking partner do apply such charges, they should be refunded
- Pay P £150 compensation for the inconvenience it has caused them 
* If Epayments considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct tax from that interest, 
it should tell P how much its taken off. It should also give P a tax deduction certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Epayments Systems Ltd must now put things 
right as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman