DRN-3069366
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC increased the credit limit on her account 
which she feels wasnt affordable for her at those times.
What happened
Mrs C has a Barclays credit account. In March 2015, Barclays increased the credit limit on 
the account from £2,560 to £6,560. A further credit limit increase took place in March 2016, 
when the credit limit was increased to £10,560. Mrs C later raised a complaint with Barclays 
on the basis that she felt that these credit limit increases hadnt been affordable for her at 
those times, and that this should have been evident to Barclays, had they undertaken 
checks into her financial position before implementing the credit limit increases.
Barclays looked at Mrs Cs complaint. But they felt that they had undertaken checks into Mrs 
Cs financial position before implementing the credit limit increases, and that there had been 
nothing resulting from those checks which suggested that Mrs C might not have been able to 
afford the credit limit increases at those times. So, Barclays didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Mrs C wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Barclays had 
conducted checks which shouldnt reasonably have given them any cause for concern. And 
while they noted that Mrs C had encountered difficult personal circumstances which had 
affected her ability to meet her credit commitments, Barclays hadnt been made aware of 
these difficulties by Mrs C such that they could have made reasonable adjustments because 
of them. Because of this, our investigator also didnt uphold this complaint.
Mrs C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be that, before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a customer is affordable for 
that customer at that time.
Barclays say that they did that here. Before both credit limit increases they reviewed how 
Mrs C had managed her credit account up to that time and they obtained information from a 
credit reference agency in order to better understand Mrs Cs wider financial position. And 
Barclays maintain that there was nothing resulting from these checks that ought reasonably 
to have given them cause to suspect that the credit limit increases being offered to Mrs C 
might have been unaffordable for her at those times.
Its understandable how Barclays would arrive at such a conclusion. For instance, when 
considering how Mrs C had managed her credit account in the months leading up the credit 
limit increases, on both occasions Mrs C was maintaining the credit account under the 
existing limit and hadnt incurred any over limit or late payment fees. 
Furthermore, the information that Barclays obtained from a credit reference agency also 
didnt provide any indicators that Mrs C might be in financial difficulty at the time of either 
credit limit increase but appeared to confirm that Mrs C was managing her existing credit 
responsibly and without issue at those times. 
Barclays also confirmed that Mrs C had previously declared her annual income as being 
£52,000 per annum, and that there was nothing in the information that they received from 
the credit reference agency that suggested that Mrs Cs income had reduced.
Mrs C has made several points to this service as to why she feels it should have been 
evident to Barclays that the credit limit increases werent affordable for her. Firstly, Mrs C 
points to a letter which she received from Barclays which she believes confirms that 
Barclays themselves have admitted that the credit limit that they gave to Mrs C was too high.
However, having reviewed this letter, which was sent to Mrs C dated 22 July 2020, I dont 
feel that it does contain an admittance of error as Mrs C believes here. 
The relevant sentence of that letter reads as follows:
Weve recently reviewed the way we set some of our customers credit limits and 
can see that the limit we gave you previously may have been higher than it should 
have been at the time.  
The key word in the above sentence is may. Indeed, Barclays have confirmed that this was 
a standard letter sent to a large number of customers whom their own internal reviews had 
highlighted may have  but hadnt necessarily  been given credit limits that were too high. 
And, when Barclays conducted a review into Mrs Cs account specifically, following this 
letter, they concluded that Mrs Cs financial circumstances at the time of the credit limit 
increases were such that it wasnt the case that they should have been deemed unaffordable 
for her at the times that they were offered.
I can appreciate how the letter quoted above might have been confusing for Mrs C, and my 
understanding is that Barclays made an offer of compensation of £75 for the confusion that 
the letter caused. But I am satisfied that the above quoted letter isnt an admission of error 
by Barclays but rather was a notification that an error may have occurred  which Barclays 
later confirmed that they felt wasnt the case in Mrs Cs specific case.
Mrs C has also stated that the fact that she was paying close to the minimum monthly 
payments should have been an indicator that she was struggling financially and that the 
credit limit increases werent affordable for her.
It can be the case that if a customer is paying close to the minimum payments due on a 
credit account that this can be seen as an indicator of potential financial distress. However, 
the payment of minimum payments would generally only be viewed this way when in 
conjunction with other potential indicators of financial distress, such as a customer struggling 
to maintain the balance of their account under the credit limit, or a deterioration of that 
customers wider financial position as evidenced from their credit file.In this instance, at the time of the first credit limit increase in March 2015, Mrs C had been 
making monthly payments towards her account that were considerably higher than the 
monthly minimum payment amount. 
However, at the time of the second credit limit increase, Mrs C had been making payments 
close to the minimum payment amount due. But there were no other indicators of potential 
financial distress present at that time, either in how Mrs C was managing her Barclays credit 
account or in regard to Mrs Cs wider financial position. 
As such, I dont feel that the fact that Mrs C was making payments close to the minimum 
payment amount in the months leading up to the second credit limit increase should be 
considered as being - in and of itself and without other indicators of potential financial 
distress being present - an indicator that Mrs C might have been in financial distress. And 
one of the reasons I say this is because a customer is entitled to make monthly minimum 
payments on a credit account if they choose to do so.
Mrs C has also drawn attention to the difficult personal circumstances that she and her 
husband had encountered at that time. But Mrs C has confirmed that she didnt make 
Barclays aware of her changing circumstances and the difficulties that she was facing. As 
such, while I can sympathise with Mrs Cs position here, I cant reasonably say that Barclays 
should have taken account of Mrs Cs personal circumstances, given that they werent 
informed about them.
It also must be noted that Mrs C has stated that she came to be in financial difficulty 
because of the change in her personal circumstances. As such, its difficult not to consider 
that Mrs C could afford the credit limit increases that were offered to her at the times that 
they were offered, but that Mrs Cs changing personal circumstances, which occurred after 
those increases, meant that the amount of credit that she held at that time was no longer 
affordable for her. 
Again, I can sympathise with Mrs Cs position here, but if the circumstances outlined above 
are accurate, this wouldnt be considered as being an instance of irresponsible lending by 
Barclays, and thats because the credit limit increases would be deemed as being affordable 
at the times that they were implemented. 
One thing that is notable to me is the size of the credit limit increases. In essence, Mrs Cs 
credit limit increased from £2,560 to £10,560 in just over a year. This is a significant 
increase, and it would be expected by this service that Barclays would have contacted Mrs C 
directly  especially at the time of the second credit limit increase - to confirm that their 
understanding of Mrs Cs income was correct and that the credit was affordable for her. 
It appears that Barclays didnt do this, but Im not convinced that even if they had, that Mrs C 
would have declined the credit limit increase on either occasion, or that Barclays would have 
been given information by Mrs C that would have caused them to reconsider the increase. 
I say this because at the time of the credit limit increases, Im satisfied from the information 
that Ive reviewed that the increases were affordable for Mrs C and that her financial position 
at those times was reasonably strong. And I feel that this is also borne out by the types of 
spending that took place on the credit account at those times, which was primarily retail and 
non-essential spending. As such, I feel that it Barclays had contacted Mrs C directly, its 
more likely than not, on balance, that the result of any conversation between Mrs C and 
Barclays would have been that the credit limit increases would still have gone ahead.All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Barclays have acted unreasonably or 
unfairly here, and it follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to 
take any further action. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs C was wanting, but I hope that she will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman