DRN-3646974
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund her in full for funds she 
lost as part of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont go into detail. In 
summary, Mrs M received a message via a messaging app from someone pretending to be 
her daughter using an unknown number. They told Mrs M that their old phone wouldnt turn 
on anymore and they needed Mrs M to make a payment for them, explaining that their 
banking had been locked due to the issues with their old phone. As a result, Mrs M made a 
payment of £1,415.23. 
Mrs M became concerned a couple of hours after making the payment that the messages 
may not have come from her daughter, so she contacted Santander and raised a fraud 
claim.
Santander considered Mrs Ms fraud claim and offered to refund her 50% of the payment  
being £707.62. Mrs M wasnt happy with Santanders offer and raised a complaint. As part of 
that complaint she raised concerns about the length of time it had taken for her to get 
through to their security team and report the fraud. Mrs M felt this delay reduced the amount 
Santander was able to recover from the scammers account.
Santander investigated Mrs Ms complaint. They declined to refund any more than 50%, 
saying that while they shouldve provided a scam warning, Mrs M shouldve checked if it was 
her daughter contacting her - before making the payment. Santander acknowledged that    
Mrs M had experienced delays in talking to their security team and offered £50 
compensation. However, they explained that the delay hadnt impacted the recovery of her 
funds as the majority of the money was removed from the scammers account within minutes 
of it being credited. They were able to recover £15 for Mrs M and paid it into her account.
Mrs M wasnt happy with Santanders response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mrs Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator wasnt 
persuaded that Santander needed to provide a warning, based on the specifics of the 
payment. And, felt that Mrs M shouldve done some checks before making the payment. As 
such, they felt the 50% refund Santander had already offered was fair. They also felt that 
£50 compensation for the delays Mrs M experienced was reasonable.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying:
Santander is behind other banks in educating their customers about scams and 
providing literature on scams a customer might fall victim to.
She feels £50 doesnt adequately address the traumatic experience she has gone 
through and the impact it has had on her mental wellbeing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander are a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
* there are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code, but they dont apply to this case.
So, Ive thought about whether Im satisfied that Mrs M had a reasonable basis for believing 
she was dealing with her daughter.
Has Mrs M met the standards set for her under the CRM Code?
Based on everything Mrs M has told us, Im not satisfied that she had a reasonable basis to 
believe she was dealing with her daughter. I say this because:
Mrs M was contacted out of the blue. The number was unknown and there was no 
information provided to Mrs M to identify that it was her daughter. For example; they 
didnt use her daughters name or provide any personal information relating to Mrs M 
or her daughter.
Mrs M says she called one of her daughters when she got the message. When she 
found out it wasnt from that daughter, she assumed it was from her other daughter. 
Mrs M says she didnt call the other daughter to check it was her, because her 
daughter is usually busy with a full-time job and children and normally doesnt answer 
calls. 
Mrs M was asked to pay nearly £1,500 but didnt ask what bill it related to or why she 
was being asked to pay a personal account if it related to a business. Also, the 
scammer told Mrs M that she was locked out of her banking for 48 hours, and there 
was no explanation as to why this bill had to be paid so urgently.
Im not persuaded that this was usual contact that Mrs M wouldve expected from her 
daughter. Mrs M has told us that she was going through a difficult period with her 
daughter and made the payment wanting to please her. However, this is a large 
payment to make with limited information and no warning.
I think there were enough red flags based on the information Mrs M was given by the 
scammer, that she shouldve paused and done some checks to verify that she was talking to 
her daughter. Im not satisfied that in these circumstances Mrs M has done enough to meet 
the standards set for her under the CRM Code.
But I also have to consider whether Santander have met the standards set for them.Have Santander met the standards set for them under the CRM Code?
Santander say they havent met the required standards under the CRM Code, as they didnt 
provide an effective warning. But, Im not persuaded that Santander were required to give a 
warning in this case. 
The payment Mrs M made was for under £1,500. It wasnt out of character compared to 
previous payments on her account and didnt significantly affect her account balance. So, Im 
not satisfied that the payment was so unusual that I wouldve expected Santander to identify 
it as a fraud risk and provide a warning. 
However, Santander have offered to refund Mrs M 50% of her payment, which is what we 
would recommend if we thought they shouldve provided an effective warning and hadnt. 
This means Santanders offer to refund 50%, is more than I wouldve recommended in the 
circumstances, and therefore I cant fairly ask Santander to refund any more.
The customer service Mrs M received
Santander have accepted that Mrs M didnt receive the level of customer service she 
shouldve, specifically around delays she experienced in talking to their security team to 
report the fraud.
Mrs M has told us about the trauma she has experienced as a result of the scam and the 
negative impact its had on her health and mental wellbeing. I dont wish to minimise how 
this has affected Mrs M, and the impact it has had on her. But, most of this trauma has been 
caused by the scammer and is a result of Mrs M falling victim to a scam, which I cant fairly 
hold Santander liable for.
I do appreciate that being delayed in reporting the fraud wouldve been stressful for Mrs M, 
but I consider the £50 Santander has already offered to be fair in the circumstances. 
Especially as Im not satisfied that Santander were required to give a warning, and therefore 
cant fairly say they couldve or shouldve prevented Mrs M from making the payment to the 
scammer. So, I wont be asking Santander to pay Mrs M more than the £50 already offered.
Could Santander have recovered more of the money for Mrs M from the beneficiary
From what Ive seen Santander contacted the receiving bank promptly on becoming aware 
of the scam. Unfortunately, the scammer had moved the majority of the money out of the 
account within minutes of it being received. As there was a gap of approximately two hours 
between Mrs M making the payment and becoming aware she had been scammed, I cant 
see that any delay in her talking to Santanders security team impacted on how much money 
was recovered from the beneficiary account. Santander have recovered £15 which theyve 
paid into Mrs Ms account, and I wont be asking it to pay anything more.
Santanders approach to customer education on scams
Mrs M has provided us with a lot of information with regards to scam literature provided by 
Santander as well as other banks, articles related to scams similar to hers and also 
information about how other similar scams have been handled by other banks.
In reaching an answer on Mrs Ms case I have to look at the specific circumstances of her 
case. I cant take into consideration other cases that we may have looked at or how other 
banks may have handled a similar scam claim. I have to look at what Santander did, and 
whether I think theyve done anything wrong in Mrs Ms circumstances. I also cant look at 
Santanders overall fraud policy including what information they are providing to customers around scams in general. How a bank operates and its regulatory management are handled 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and arent part of our remit.
I appreciate that Mrs M is going to be very disappointed, but I cant fairly ask Santander to 
pay anything further. But, if they havent already done so, they should pay Mrs M the £50 
compensation and make the 50% refund to her account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman