DRN-1752455
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Is complain that esure Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim on their 
buildings insurance policy following an escape of water.
What happened
Mr and Mrs I said they got in touch with their insurer when they noticed water coming 
through the living room ceiling. It seemed to happen when the shower was being used in the 
bathroom above. The leak caused quite a lot of damage and esure sent an inspector to look 
into things. The inspector said the sealant in the area was damaged and therefore the claim 
would be declined.
Mr I resealed and re-grouted the area but water was still getting through to the ceiling below. 
So Mr I got a report from a plumbing contractor who said the water was escaping from a pipe 
behind the shower and everything would have to be removed to fix the problem. 
Mr I obtained quotes for the repairs and reinstatement works and had the leak repaired. But 
esure declined the claim a second time after reviewing the contractors report. So Mr and 
Mrs I would like esure to cover the damage caused by the leak and reimburse the repair 
costs of nearly £6000.
When esure reviewed its inspectors report it initially declined the claim as damage caused 
by the failure of sealant or grouting was excluded under the policy. When Mr I provided a 
further report following a plumbers inspection, esure said it seemed the leak was due to 
poor workmanship when the bathroom area was fitted. And it declined the claim under the 
general exclusions applied to the policy which stated it would not pay for loss or damage 
resulting from faulty workmanship.
Mr and Mrs I werent satisfied with esures response. So they contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He looked at Mr and Mrs Is policy and saw it covered an 
escape of water except in certain circumstances, including the failure or lack of appropriate 
sealant and/or grout. But although that was originally felt to be the likely clause, the second 
report indicated water was escaping from a pipe behind the shower.
 
Our investigator said a leak would generally be insured if, for example, a pipe burst or failed 
suddenly. But the evidence from the contractor indicated the pipes hadnt been installed 
properly and the joints were leaking. And the wet room shower hadnt been sealed properly 
which meant the escaping water was able to get into the ceiling below. So he felt it was 
reasonable for esure to rely on the general exclusions clause in the policy relating to faulty 
workmanship, design or materials and decline the claim. 
Mr and Mrs I didnt agree. They say they didnt know about the wider terms and conditions. 
When submitting their claim theyd relied on the condensed booklet theyd received and 
esure shouldnt be able to rely on terms they were unaware of. 
So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Any claim involving damage caused by an escape of water is likely to be stressful. And I can 
see Mr and Mrs I are upset with how esure has dealt with their claim. As our investigator has 
explained, the role of this service is to see if esure has assessed the claim fairly and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy, given the evidence available. I can see our 
investigator provided a detailed timeline of what has happened. So I wont repeat all of that 
here. But I will concentrate on the issues that are relevant to the complaint. 
When Mr and Mrs I reported the leak, esure arrange for a firm to investigate the damage. 
The inspector felt water was leaking because of faulty sealant and grouting in the wet 
shower area, which wasnt covered by the home insurance policy. Mr I didnt agree. There 
was too much water coming through the ceiling when the shower area was being used. And 
the leak continued after he had the seals repaired. Although esure arranged for another 
specialist firm to look into the matter, Mr I decided to have the repairs done himself.
Mr Is plumber took up the floor and underfloor heating and removed tiles from one wall. 
Water seemed to be leaking in two areas when the bathroom was being used  behind the 
shower and under the floor. I can see a substantial amount of repair and replacement work 
was needed to put thing right. And the plumbers report details a number of faults including:
 Incorrect adhesive and tanking kit underneath the tiles
 Badly connected piping under the shower tray
 Unsupported shower tray allowing movement when walked on
 Poorly connected and unsupported pipes
Ive looked carefully at Mr and Mrs Is home insurance policy. The policy provides cover 
under section 1 for loss or damage due to the escape of water from pipes, but with certain 
exclusions. The exclusions section includes damage caused by failure or lack of appropriate 
sealant and/or grout. So I think esure was entitled to initially decline the claim based on its 
inspectors report.
When Mr and Mrs I contacted esure with the plumbers report their claim was declined again 
under the general exclusions which applies to the home insurance policy. This states that 
esure will not pay for loss, damage or any liability resulting from or consisting of faulty 
workmanship, design or materials. 
I understand Mr I says he hadnt seen the policy documents which included the general 
exclusions. Ive looked at the information provided by esure in 2016 when they took out the 
policy. They wouldve received a welcome letter which refers to the policy portal and asks 
the customer to read the policy document and the limitations of the insurance cover 
provided. So I cant say Mr and Mrs I werent made aware of the policy document and the 
importance of viewing the full policy terms and conditions. 
Although I would normally expect water damage from a burst pipe to be insured, on this 
occasion the evidence suggests the leak was the result of poor workmanship rather than any 
sudden event. Mr Is plumber identified a number of problems where pipes hadnt been 
connected or secured properly. And the shower tray was able to move whenever anyone 
walked on it  which would explain why the sealant around the area had failed.
I can see how upsetting this has been for Mr and Mrs I. They feel esure should cover the 
cost of damage caused by the leak. But based on everything Ive seen I think it is reasonable for esure to rely on the evidence of 
both its own inspector and Mr Is plumber when assessing the likely cause of the damage.
The home insurance policy doesnt provide cover for loss or damage because of faulty 
workmanship, design or materials. And the plumbers report highlights a number of areas 
where the fitting does not appear to have been carried out to a reasonable standard. So I 
cant say esure acted unfairly in declining Mr and Mrs Is claim. And I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman