DRN-3853526
The complaint
Mr S complains that Evelyn Partners Investment Management Services Limited, trading as 
Bestinvest, caused delays in the transfer of his stocks and shares ISA to another provider. 
He wants compensation for the poor customer service he says he received, and for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
What happened
Mr S holds a stocks and shares ISA with Bestinvest. He says he gave instructions on 
28 February 2022 to transfer his ISA to another provider, who Ill refer to as T. He says the 
transfer wasnt completed until 7 July.
Bestinvest said it received the transfer request on 23 March, but this was only for 14 lines of 
investment, whereas Mr Ss ISA contained 17 investments. Bestinvest asked T if this was 
correct, and T cancelled the transfer request. Bestinvest didnt receive further contact from T 
until the end of April. 
T confirmed that it couldnt accept three of Mr Ss investments and it re-sent Bestinvest the 
transfer request which Bestinvest received on 6 May. 13 of the 14 investments were 
transferred to T on 11 and 12 May. The final investment rejected. Bestinvest re-submitted 
the transfer three more times between 20 May and 22 June, but it wasnt until it manually 
instructed the transfer that it went ahead. The transfer was completed on 7 July.
Bestinvest accepted it could have done more to progress the transfer of the final investment 
after it was rejected. It offered to refund its management fees for May and June, and it 
offered to pay Mr S £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator thought Bestinvests offer was fair. She couldnt conclude that Bestinvest 
had caused a delay initially, but she agreed it could have taken action when the last 
investment was rejected which might have meant the transfer completed more quickly.
Mr S didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
He spent time emailing both parties. Whereas T replied to him by phone within a 
reasonable time, Bestinvest replied by email saying it wasnt at fault and was looking into 
things.
Bestinvest didnt use common sense to resolve the issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made or reproduce a detailed timeline. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Having considered everything, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator 
for the following reasons:
I dont find Bestinvest caused any unnecessary delay when it received the first transfer 
request in March. I think it was reasonable for it to check whether the instruction for a 
partial, rather than a full, transfer was correct. After T cancelled its transfer request, 
I dont find there was any obligation on Bestinvest to take any action. But it contacted T 
on three occasions to check if it was going to resubmit its request and in doing so I think 
it treated Mr S fairly.
Im satisfied that 13 of the 14 investments were transferred within a reasonable 
timescale.
Bestinvest has accepted that it could have done more to ensure the last investment was 
transferred more quickly. I agree. When it checked the information that had been 
submitted and found it to be correct, it simply kept resubmitting it. I think it would have 
been reasonable after the second rejection to have contacted T and decided what action 
was necessary to ensure the transfer was successfully completed.
Had Bestinvest done more to ensure the rejected investment was successfully 
transferred, its more likely than not that the transfer would have been completed within a 
reasonable timescale after the other investments were transferred, so by the end of May 
at the latest. Bestinvest offered to refund its fees for May and June, which included its 
fees for the assets that werent being transferred. I consider this to be fair and 
reasonable.
I understand Mr Ss strength of feeling on this matter and its clear how frustrating the 
delay was for him. I can see he contacted Bestinvest on a number of occasions and, 
whilst its final response to his complaint clearly set out what had happened, I think it 
couldve given him a clearer explanation at an earlier stage. But, considering all the 
circumstances, I think Bestinvests offer of £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Evelyn Partners Investment Management Services Limited, trading 
as Bestinvest should:
1. Refund its fees for May and June 2022, if it hasnt already done so.
2. Pay Mr S £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman