DRN-2708248
The complaint
Mr A complains that MBNA Limited have unfairly applied adverse information to his credit 
file.
What happened
Mr A contacted MBNA on 18 October 2019 and it was agreed that he would be put on a 
short term repayment plan. Mr A changed his mind about the repayment plan and repaid his 
arrears on 26 October. He then cancelled the repayment plan. 
Mr A says that given the short period the plan was in place it isnt fair that it is recorded on 
his credit file. He also noted that although he made the repayment in October, the plan was 
reported as being in place in November with certain credit reference agencies.
MBNA says that the information had been recorded correctly with the credit reference 
agencies. It says that Mr A called on 18 October 2019 about his circumstances and it was 
agreed that he could be put on a short term plan. It says the implications of this were 
explained, including the impact on his credit file. While Mr A then cancelled the plan it says it 
was correct that it was recorded when put in place.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think that MBNA had done anything 
wrong as it had recorded the repayment plan when it was entered and then removed it when 
the arrears were cleared. She noted that while the plan was recorded in different months by 
different credit reference agencies this could be due to the different reporting cycles meaning 
some recorded the arrangement in pace in October and others in November.  
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view. He said the payment plan was in place for an 
insignificant time and he didnt think it fair that it was reported on his credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A contacted MBNA about his financial situation in October 2019. I have listened to the 
call from 18 October and an income and expenditure assessment took place and it was 
agreed that a repayment plan would be put in place. Mr A was told the plan would be shown 
on his credit file and this was also set out in the letter sent to him dated 19 October 2019. 
Therefore, I find that Mr A was provided with the information he needed to be aware that the 
repayment plan would be reported to the credit reference agencies and that he agreed to 
this. 
Mr A repaid his arrears on 26 October 2019 and in a call dated 13 November he said he 
wished to cancel the repayment plan. I appreciate Mr As comments that the repayment plan 
was only in place for a short period. However, MBNA has a duty to report accurate 
information to the credit reference agencies and as the repayment plan was put in place I do 
not find I can say that MBNA was wrong to report this. 
I have looked at the credit reports provided and can see that the arrangement to pay was 
only recorded for a month. The reports are updated on a monthly basis and so I find it 
reasonable to accept that Mr As repayment plan was reported to the credit reference 
agencies when set up and his subsequent actions of making a repayment and cancelling the 
plan were also reported in a timely way. I note the comment about different credit reference 
agencies reporting the repayment plan for different months (October or November) however 
I find it reasonable to accept the explanation that the reporting is retrospective and will 
depend on the dates which the credit reference agencies update their reports.
Overall, I can understand why Mr A is upset that the repayment plan shows on his credit file 
given the actions he took shortly after putting it in place. But as he set up the plan and was 
informed of the impact it would have on his credit file, I do not find I can say MBNA did 
anything wrong by reporting this information.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman