DRN-3240260
The complaint
Miss H complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.
What happened
Lending Stream provided Miss H with four instalment loans between January 2018 and 
January 2019. The details are set out below.
Loan Date Repaid Amount (£)
1 Jan 2018 Jul 2018 100
2 May 2018 May 2018 150
3 Aug 2018 Jan 2019 450
4 Jan 2019 Not Closed 580
Miss H says that Lending Stream lent her increasing amounts which she couldnt afford to 
repay. 
Lending Stream issued a final response letter in May 2020. It said that before the loans were 
provided it checked that Miss H was working and confirmed her monthly income. It also 
asked her about her monthly expenses and checked these against external statistical 
databases. It said that for loans 1 to 3 Miss H had enough disposable income to make the 
repayments. Regarding loan 4, it said although this was affordable based on its checks, 
given the number of loans and time that passed between each loan it might not have been a 
good idea to provide this loan. Therefore, it upheld Miss Hs complaint in regard to loan 4 
and said it would refund the interest and charges paid along with 8% simple interest and 
remove any adverse information regard this loan form Miss Hs credit file. 
Miss H says that although Lending Stream acknowledged some wrong-doing in response to 
her complaint it then sold her account to a debt collection agency. She says the lending has 
adversely affected her credit file for an extended time. She wants the remaining outstanding 
balance to be written off and compensation for the time there was inaccuracies on her credit 
file.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint.
Miss H didnt accept our adjudicators view. She reiterated that she believed the lending was 
irresponsible and had a negative impact on her credit file. She said she needed to chase 
Lending Stream for almost a year to get a response to her complaint and that this situation 
and her need to keeping chasing for a response has had a negative effect on her mental 
health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
Miss H was provided with four loans by Lending Stream. In its final response letter Lending 
Stream upheld Miss Hs complaint in regard to loan 4 and has provided redress in line with 
what we would expect. Therefore, I havent considered this loan any further. I have 
considered whether loans 1 to 3 should have been provided and the additional points Miss H 
has raised about the time taken to resolve her complaint and the ongoing impact on her 
credit file.
Before the loans were provided, information about Miss Hs income and expenses was 
gathered. Loan 1 was for £100 and repayable over six monthly instalments. Miss H said she 
was working part time with a monthly income of £800. Her application form declared monthly 
expenses of £300 although I note in Lending Streams calculation this was increased. As this 
was Miss Hs first loan and noting its size and the repayments compared to her income I 
think the checks carried out were propionate. As these suggested the loan was affordable, I 
do not find I can say Lending Stream was wrong to provide this loan.
Loan 2 was for £150 repayable over six monthly instalments and was provided while loan 1 
was still outstanding. Given this I have considered the combined repayments on the loans. 
When the laon was provided, Miss H declared a monthly income of £900 and expenses of 
£275. The expenses used in Lending Streams assessment were higher. As with the first 
loan, I think the checks carried out at this stage were proportionate. As these didnt raise 
concerns about the affordability of the loan, I do not find I can say loan 2 shouldnt have 
been provided.
Miss H repaid loan 2 the same month it was take out and repaid loan 1 in July 2018. She 
then took out a larger loan (£450) in August 2018. At this time, Miss H said she was working full time (with the same employer as previously declared) earning £1,000 a month. While this 
was Miss Hs third loan in the lending chain, having considered the other information 
provided I think the checks carried out were still proportionate. As these didnt raise 
concerns about the affordability of the loan I do not find that I can say this loan shouldnt 
have been provided.
Overall, I do not find I have enough to say that loans 1 to 3 shouldnt have been provided.
Loan 4 was upheld by Lending Stream. Miss H says that it took Lending Stream too long to 
respond to her complaint and to take the action it said it would. She says she needed to 
chase to get a response which affected her mental health and that her credit file was 
affected for longer than it should have been. 
I can understand how distressing this must have been for Miss H, especially at a time when 
she had suffered a family bereavement. I can see that the final response letter was issued in 
May 2020 and that the loan was transferred back to Lending Stream in April 2021 at which 
time the settlement took place. While I think the settlement provided is reasonable I can see 
that the process and time taken caused her unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
Lending Stream has explained that the pandemic caused delays in its handling of customer 
complaints and apologised for the delays in dealing with the removal of adverse information 
from Miss Hs credit file. Because of the upset caused by the delays it offered to pay her 
£200 compensation. 
I have considered the amount offered and while I note Miss Hs comments about the 
adverse information on her credit file limiting her access to certain services and ability to get 
employment, I do not have anything to show that this issue caused her a financial loss. 
Therefore, I have considered the compensation amount in relation to the upset and 
inconvenience she has been caused. I am sorry to hear of the distress Miss H has 
experienced and that the stress has affected her mental health. However, considering the 
issues in this case, I think the offer of £200 is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream should (additional to the 
actions it set out in its final response letter regarding loan 4) pay Miss H £200 as it has 
offered in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman