DRN-2736365
The complaint
Mr P and Miss S have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) failed to 
contact them about a new mortgage product and a term reduction, after promising Mr P that 
it would.
To settle the complaint, Mr P and Miss S want Halifax to compensate them for the cost of 
being on a higher rate of interest over a longer term, which they estimate at £10,000.
The complaint has been dealt with throughout by Mr P.
What happened
Mr P and Miss S have a mortgage with Halifax taken out in 2002. The mortgage is split 
between four sub-accounts. The most recent fixed rate on sub-accounts 1 and 2 ended in 
September 2015 and reverted to Halifaxs Standard Variable Rate (SVR). The fixed rate on 
sub-accounts 3 and 4 ended in June 2018 and reverted to SVR.
Mr P and Miss S are unclear about which product their complaint relates to, but they say the 
following happened.
One of their mortgage products was coming to an end, so Mr P and Miss S met an 
independent financial adviser who was able to advise them of an alternative product, which 
had a shorter term. But he suggested Mr P and Miss S should also speak to Halifax, which 
Mr P did, by telephone. 
Halifax had a similar product and could also reduce the term, but as there was still an early 
repayment charge (ERC) on their current mortgage product, Halifax said it would be best to 
wait a few months until this had expired and that Halifax would contact them again.
Mr P says Halifax didnt telephone him again and so in December 2019 a complaint was 
made to Halifax. Mr P said that hed been waiting for Halifax to call him back after the ERC 
expired, but he was never contacted by telephone and didnt get in touch with Halifax 
himself. Mr P said Halifax hadnt honoured what it said it would do by calling him. 
Mr P said he and Miss S now had an extra two years on their mortgage term and wanted 
Halifax to compensate them for this. Mr P said that the term couldnt be reduced without him 
and Miss S having to pay substantially more each month.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said that there was no evidence of any product 
transfer application by Mr P or Miss S during the previous three years, nor any request to 
reduce the term  even in the previous five or six years. Halifax also said that the onus was 
on the customer to contact the bank to switch products.
Halifax said it had now looked at a term reduction, but wasnt able to agree to this, due to 
affordability. Halifax was still able to offer a product transfer, and also explained that Mr P 
and Miss S could make overpayments on their mortgage if they wished to reduce the term. 
The bank clarified that if Mr P and Miss S switched products, overpayments were limited to 
10% of the outstanding balance, otherwise an ERC would apply.
Dissatisfied with Halifaxs response, Mr P and Miss S complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at the complaint. Having done so, she thought 
it should be upheld.
The investigator noted that it was unclear when the conversation Mr P said hed had with 
Halifax had taken place. Shed also seen no evidence of any illustration showing any new 
product that Halifax had discussed with Mr P. But nevertheless she concluded that Halifax 
hadnt delivered on its promise of calling Mr P back when his and Miss Ss mortgage product 
was no longer subject to an ERC. 
The investigator thought Halifax should pay Mr P and Miss S compensation of £100 for not 
calling Mr P back, although she acknowledged there was nothing in Halifaxs records to 
show there was ever any discussion about a product switch.
The investigator didnt think Halifax should be required to pay any other compensation, 
because it was up to Mr P and Miss S to mitigate their position and take steps themselves to 
initiate a product switch, once theyd realised Halifax hadnt telephoned them.
Neither Mr P and Miss S nor Halifax accepted the investigators findings. Mr P said that 
theyd been robbed of £10,000 by his mortgage term and interest rate not being reduced, 
and this was entirely due to Halifax not calling him back.
Halifax didnt think it had done anything wrong and so didnt agree to pay any compensation.
Provisional decision of 23 March 2021
I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following findings.
Ive reviewed the account notes, which are a record of whats happened on the 
mortgage account. The notes are contemporaneous  that is, they were made at the 
time of the events. In the circumstances, I am entitled to rely on these notes as being 
an accurate record of the account activity.
There is nothing in the account history to show that a product transfer was ever 
discussed with Halifax, or that Halifax had said it would telephone Mr P once his 
existing mortgage product expired. 
The records show that when the fixed rate on sub-accounts 1 and 2 were due to 
expire, Halifax sent out letters on 1 September 2015. Similar letters were sent out in 
relation to sub-accounts 3 and 4 on 1 June 2018. These letters are system-
generated, prompted by the projected end date of the particular mortgage product 
which is due to expire.
Halifax has provided us with a template of the letters it sent. The template letter 
explains that the product is due to come to an end, and shows how the interest rate 
and monthly repayment will change as a result. The letter is accompanied by a Q&A 
leaflet which says that if customers want to switch to a new product, details can be 
found online, including information about how to apply.
I wouldnt expect Halifax to telephone individual customers once their mortgage 
product has come to an end, so Im not persuaded that Halifax said it would do so in 
Mr P and Miss Ss case. I think its likely, if Mr P did, in fact, have a discussion with Halifax before one of his mortgage products ended, that Halifax said it would contact 
him once the product came to an end  and Halifax did so, but in writing. 
In the circumstances, I find Halifax did nothing wrong in this case. There is no 
evidence of any discussion about a new mortgage product and a term reduction 
within the period when Mr P said hed discussed this both with an independent 
financial adviser and with Halifax. Im also satisfied that Halifax did contact Mr P and 
Miss S when their previous mortgage products expired, so Im satisfied that they 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known, when the various sub-accounts of their 
mortgage were about to revert to SVR. 
I also note that the annual mortgage statements showed the interest rate applied to 
the mortgage and that, after the fixed rate products had expired, the mortgage was 
on Halifaxs SVR. I understand Mr P waited for several years for Halifax to telephone 
him about a product switch and term reduction before he complained to the bank. 
Mr P also acknowledges that he didnt take any further steps himself to initiate any 
change to the mortgage product or term before he contacted Halifax in December 
2019.
I understand that when Mr P and Miss S asked for a term reduction in December 
2019, this was declined, due to affordability. Thats a decision Halifax is allowed to 
make. Im satisfied that in the final response letter Halifax explained the available 
options to Mr P and Miss S. They could stay on SVR and make overpayments 
without any ERC, or transfer to a new product at a lower rate of interest, but with a 
limitation on the level of overpayments they could make during the ERC period. I am 
unable to order Halifax to reduce the mortgage term, if Mr P and Miss S dont meet 
affordability criteria for a term reduction.
In the circumstances, I can find no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to 
ask Halifax to pay any compensation, as Ive been unable to find any error on the 
part of the bank.
Responses to the provisional decision
Halifax had nothing further to add to the provisional decision. Mr P made the following 
comments.
he told Halifax numerous times that he wasnt worried about paying the ERC but he 
repeatedly told Halifax to go ahead and switch the mortgage products before theyd 
reached the end of their product terms, but Halifax insisted they had to wait; 
Halifax failed to honour its agreement to contact him when the mortgage products 
expired;
when he asked  several years later in December 2019  if the same deal could still be 
offered, he was told yes. He and Miss S took a day off work and went to see Halifax, but 
were told they could not have a new deal on the terms they wanted;
my decision could not be more incorrect;
if this is the justice system  where the accused admits what theyve done is wrong and 
still gets away with hit, then he has lost all faith in the justice system.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file again, revisited my provisional decision and noted the further points 
Mr P has made. I will clarify at the outset that the Financial Ombudsman Service, although 
an alternative to the courts, is not part of the justice system or the court service. We are an 
informal dispute-resolution scheme, not a court of law.
After reviewing everything, Im not persuaded to change the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision.
I think its unlikely Halifax wouldnt have changed the account to a new product before the 
ERC expired if, as Mr P says, he insisted the bank did so. Halifaxs role is to administer the 
mortgage account. The bank would be right to warn a customer of a potential ERC, but if the 
customer insisted on going ahead, Halifax would, I find, have put a new arrangement in 
place. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, Halifax did contact Mr P and Miss S when the 
mortgage products expired, by letter. So I disagree with Mr P that Halifax failed to contact 
him.
In December 2019 Mr P and Miss S spoke to Halifax about a new product and a term 
reduction. Because they wanted to change the mortgage term, Halifax was required  as 
part of its regulatory obligations under the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook  to assess affordability. Halifax decided it wasnt affordable. Whilst I 
accept it was inconvenient for Mr P and Miss S to take time off work to go into the bank to 
discuss this, Halifax was entitled to decline the application if it didnt meet its affordability 
criteria. I can see this was disappointing for Mr P and Miss S, but it was a decision Halifax 
was entitled to reach.
Overall, after reviewing the case again, Im satisfied that Halifax contacted Mr P and Miss S 
when their mortgage products expired, explaining that the various sub-accounts would revert 
to SVR. Halifax wasnt under any obligation to telephone Mr P and Miss S, and chase them 
up to switch to a new product. The bank informed them at the time the products expired that 
they could move to a new deal, and the steps they needed to take to achieve this.
In the circumstances, although I acknowledge Mr P will disagree with me, Im unable to find 
Halifax has acted incorrectly. Halifax offered compensation of £100 if there had been any 
misunderstanding Mr P may have had that the bank would call him back, even though there 
was no record of the bank ever agreeing to do so. I dont think Halifax is required to pay any 
further compensation, as Im satisfied the bank has done nothing wrong.
Mr P and Miss S are under no obligation to accept my decision  and if they dont it wont be 
legally-binding on them or Halifax and they will be free to pursue their grievances against 
Halifax in court, should they wish to do so. Mr P and Miss S might want to take legal advice 
from a solicitor before embarking on any court proceedings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman