DRN-3436181
The complaint
Mr Z complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB) and their decision to stop two 
online payments.
What happened
Mr Z holds a current account provided by NWB. On 29 September 2021, Mr Z attempted to 
make a payment of £2,849. Mr Z says this payment showed as pending online, as he was 
unable to access the funds. But on 2 October, the funds were returned to his account without 
an explanation as to why.
So, on 4 October, Mr Z attempted to make the payment again, as well as another payment 
of £1,000. Again, these payments showed as pending but failed to reach the recipients 
account. Mr Z attempted to speak to NWB about this but had difficulty reaching the correct 
department. He managed to reach the relevant team on 7 October to discuss this, where he 
was made aware the payments had been stopped to due concerns about them. Mr Z 
confirmed the payments as genuine on this call and NWB removed the blocks, allowing the 
payments to complete. But Mr Z was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr Z was unhappy with that the payments had been blocked, despite him taking all 
necessary measures to ensure the payments went through. So, he didnt think the systems 
NWB put in place were reasonable and proportionate. Mr Z was also unhappy with the 
length of time it took NWB to release the payments and the difficulties he experienced when 
trying to speak to them regarding this issue. So, he wanted NWB to review the systems they 
had in place and alter these to ensure other customers didnt have to experience the 
difficulties he had.
NWB responded and didnt uphold the complaint. They explained the payments were 
stopped as their fraud system picked them up as suspicious. And they explained they had a 
duty to protect a customers account from fraudulent activity so didnt think theyd acted 
unfairly. Because of this, they didnt need to do anything more. Mr Z remained unhappy with 
this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
While Mr Zs complaint was with our service, NWB offered to pay Mr Z £100 to recognise the 
difficulties he faced when trying to contact NWB to understand why the payments had been 
stopped. Mr Z rejected this offer, so our service continued with our investigation.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They recognised the inconvenience 
Mr Z wouldve been caused when the payments were stopped. But they didnt think NWB 
had acted unfairly, as they had a duty to protect a customers account. And they explained 
our service were unable to comment upon, or ask NWB to change, their business process.
But they did think NWB failed to notify Mr Z of why the payments were stopped within a 
reasonable amount of time. And they thought Mr Z had encountered unreasonable 
difficulties when trying to contact NWB. They thought the £100 NWB offered fairly 
compensated Mr Z for the upset and inconvenience this caused and so, our investigator 
thought NWB should pay Mr Z this amount.
Mr Z didnt agree. He maintained his belief that NWBs processes should be reviewed and 
altered and he thought our service should have the powers to enforce this. Mr Z was also 
unhappy that the failed transactions werent shown on his statement.
Our investigator responded to Mr Zs comments, explaining their view remained the same. 
And they reiterated the remit of our service and the fact we dont hold the power to comment 
on or change a business process. Mr Z remained unhappy, so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr Z. I dont dispute Mr Z took 
all reasonable steps to authenticate the payments he made. So, when these payments failed 
to reach the recipient and instead returned to his account without any reason as to why, I 
can understand the confusion this wouldve caused. And I can also understand why this 
would lead Mr Z to believe the processes NWB have in place arent fit for purpose and why 
he'd want these to be reviewed and ultimately, changed.
But I think its important to explain exactly what our service is able to consider, and comment 
upon. Unfortunately, we are unable to comment upon, or direct a business to change, a 
business process. This can only be done by industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority as regulated business are entitled to set their own business processes.
But what I can think about is whether I think NWB acted fairly when deciding to stop the 
payments. And I think they have. This is because NWB had a duty to ensure Mr Zs account 
is protected from fraudulent activity. And while Im unable to say exactly why the payments 
triggered NWBs security process due to commercial sensitivity, Im satisfied NWB stopped 
the payments in good faith, acting in the best interests of Mr Z. 
But I would expect NWB to make Mr Z reasonably aware the payments had been stopped. 
And then give Mr Z the opportunity to confirm the payments as genuine, so they could be 
processed. NWB themselves have accepted they didnt do this. And theyve accepted Mr Z 
experienced unnecessary difficulty when trying to reach the correct team to authenticate the 
payments. So, Im satisfied NWB acted unfairly here and because of this, Ive then thought 
about what I think NWB should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When considering what NWB should do to put things right, any direction or award I make is 
intended to place Mr Z back in the position he wouldve been, had NWB acted fairly in the 
first instance.
In this situation, I think the first payment Mr Z made in September wouldve still been 
blocked. But, if NWB had acted fairly, I wouldve expected NWB to notify Mr Z of this and 
given him the opportunity to confirm the payment as genuine. And I think its reasonable for 
me to assume Mr Z wouldve done so.So, Mr Z wouldnt have needed to attempt the transaction again, which wouldve taken him 
time to process. Mr Z would also not have needed to chase NWB for clarification on why the 
payments hadnt gone through and experienced the frustration of failing to reach the correct 
team and have his questions answered. So, I think he should be compensated for this.
Im aware NWB have offered Mr Z £100 to recognise the inconvenience and upset Mr Z 
suffered. And this offer falls in line with what I wouldve awarded, had it not already been 
made. So, I think this is a payment NWB should make. 
I understand Mr Z may not agree with this. And I recognise Mr Z has stated he isnt looking 
for a monetary award and has instead asked that NWB review their processes. But as Ive 
explained above, this isnt something Im able to direct them to do. And Im also aware Mr Z 
wanted our service to consider the fact the failed transactions werent reported on his bank 
statements. But I havent included this in any compensation award, as I wouldnt expect 
failed transactions to show on a bank statement. These statements are intended to show 
only the completed credits and debits on an account, giving an accurate reflection of the 
accounts current financial position.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Zs complaint about National Westminster Bank 
Plc and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr Z £100 to recognise the upset and inconvenience hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman