DRN-1562377
 
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy about the way Barclays Bank UK plc (Barclays) dealt with repayment 
arrangements on an unauthorised overdraft which resulted in missed payments being 
recorded on his credit file. 
 
What happened
Mr A paid a holiday deposit in 2018 on his debit card. Due to ill health he couldnt travel but 
couldnt get a refund. So he rang Barclays on 13 March 2019 requesting a chargeback on 
the debit card. He also told Barclays about his health problems.
Barclays asked VISA to attempt a chargeback and credited Mr As account. He withdrew the 
money the same day. Barclays wrote saying this credit was temporary unless the 
chargeback was successful which could take several weeks. Mr A says he did not receive 
this letter.
A few weeks later VISA declined the chargeback.  Barclays wrote to Mr A on 26 March 
saying his money couldnt be refunded. The credit was reversed on the 9 April, resulting in 
an unauthorised overdraft on Mr As account.
Mr A was unhappy about the chargeback, saying as the money was in his account it must 
have been successful. There were other phone calls over the next days and weeks. Mr A 
says these also discussed the overdraft and he was told he didnt need a payment plan and 
could make ad hoc payments when possible. He says had he been told he needed to agree 
a payment plan he would have.
Barclays said the chargeback procedure was correct but the explanation on the phone 
hadnt been clear enough, so they offered £75 compensation. Mr A accepted this and 
agreed Barclays werent at fault over the failed chargeback.
Over the next few months Barclays says it sent letters and getting no reply, sent texts and 
made calls trying to arrange repayment of the debt. Mr A says he didnt receive the letters. 
He didnt answer the calls because hed told Barclays not to call him due to memory 
problems caused by his ill-health. 
In October Mr A noticed missed payments were being recorded on his credit file but not the 
payments he had made. He was concerned, saying another bank reduced his credit limit, so 
he contacted Barclays wanting them to correct his credit file. 
Barclays recorded a complaint. It said recording missed payments was correct as Mr A 
hadnt agreed a payment plan despite many attempt to contact him, so it wouldnt amend his 
credit file. When Mr A did call Barclays in October he declined to be put on a payment plan.Barclays did offer another £240 in compensation for poor service and possibly misadvising 
about his credit file and payment plan initially. Mr A accepted this offer. 
Mr A wasnt happy about his credit file and contacted our service. Our investigator looked at 
the chargeback and said Barclays wasnt at fault. They felt the £75 compensation offered for 
the poor explanation was fair.
Mr A said he wasnt complaining about the chargeback, but about not being offered a 
payment plan and the unfair marking of his credit file. Our investigator felt Mr A had been 
made aware of Barclays actions and intentions and so didnt uphold this complaint either. 
They said Barclays had tried to contact Mr A to put a plan in place before making the credit 
file reports but Mr A hadnt responded. As these reports were accurate it couldnt be asked 
to amend them. But the investigator felt as Mr A had asked for Barclays to only contact him 
in writing it should pay another £75 compensation for ringing him, making £150 in total. They 
noted Barclays would still offer a payment plan. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said hed made ad hoc payments as agreed and Barclays had now 
told him it would have accepted five pounds a month. which was less than he had paid. He 
said it had lied to him which the call would prove. 
Our investigator said the missing call didnt matter as they believed what Mr A said about it 
which was that hed initially been given incorrect information by Barclays regarding payment 
plans. However, it had repeatedly tried to contact him afterwards to correct this. 
Barclays said it had already paid another £240 compensation on 14 November, making £315 
in total so it felt a further £75 wasnt justified. Our investigator agreed £315 was fair and 
reasonable and said Barclays didnt need to do any more. 
 As Mr A disagrees the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I wont be upholding the 
complaint.
I understand that with Mr A being in poor health things must have been very difficult for him 
but I dont think Barclays have acted unreasonably in dealing with him. 
The Chargeback
This has been considered at length. Mr A accepts that Barclays werent at fault and I dont 
think it did anything wrong here either. The £75 already paid for any lack of clarity is fair so I 
wont ask Barclays to do anything more in respect of this.
 
 
Overdraft Repayment, Credit File Reports and Communication Attempts
As businesses, banks are allowed to recover debts owed to them and will want to formalise 
any arrangements. They are also expected to treat customers fairly and reasonably over debt problems. Mr A says he effectively had an agreement to make adhoc payments and 
that call recordings would prove this. 
Barclays say no agreement was made but that some calls cant be located. However it has 
notes made from missing calls, none of which refer to payment plans being discussed or 
agreed. 
Mr A says these notes dont reflect all that was said. But Barclays made these notes at the 
time or on reviewing the calls so I see no reason to doubt them as a record of what was 
most likely discussed. 
Barclays notes show Mr A asked about his credit file and show multiple attempts to contact 
him by letter, text and phone. Mr A says letters werent received and accepts he did not take 
calls or respond to messages from Barclays but says these calls shouldnt count, as he only 
wanted Barclays to write to him.
But I also have to consider that Barclays did write to Mr A  and there was no response to 
these letters either. It was unhelpful of Barclays to then contact him by a method he had 
asked it not to use. But, even then, I think it was doing so with a view to see if anything could 
be done to help. In any event though, Im satisfied that Barclays did write to Mr A to tell him 
about the situation, which is how he wanted to be communicated with. That he didnt 
respond isnt something I can hold Barclays responsible for.
Mr A made payments, but I cant see that these were part of any formally agreed plan with 
Barclays, so with no engagement from Mr A it followed normal practice in escalating 
attempts to recover the money owed. This included providing accurate information about the 
situation to credit reference agencies. That will clearly have an impact on Mr A  but it 
doesnt mean that it has acted wrongly in doing this.
In making a second compensation payment Barclays accepts the possibility that it may have 
misinformed Mr A about his credit file and the need for a payment plan in the initial phone 
call. As that call record is missing I havent seen any evidence that it did. But in taking Mr As 
word for it Barclays has been fair and paid compensation for any error. I dont think this 
affected the outcome as Barclays made many attempts to contact Mr A to correct any initial 
error it may have made here. So overall I think Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably.
The Compensation Already Paid
Barclays has paid a total of £315 in compensation for service failings. That, to me, is a fair 
amount in the circumstances. I say this because Barclays wasnt at fault in how it dealt with 
the chargeback. Then, while Barclays accepts there may have been some issues with what 
happened after this, Im satisfied that it has, on the whole, acted fairly in the circumstances 
and compensated Mr A fairly for any shortcomings in the service it provided.
 
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman