The complaint
Mr S complains that RCI Financial Services Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr S acquired car costing £15,474 funded by a deposit of £300 and a 
hire purchase agreement.
In March 2019 after having been driven for 5,500 miles, the engine management light (EML) 
came on. The car was taken back to the dealer which said it could be a problem with the 
DPF filter and that it wasnt covered under warranty. Mr S didnt want to pay the dealer for a 
diagnostic test, so he took the car to his own garage and it carried out a service which 
resolved the DPF issue.
However, the EML came on again in June 2019 at 11,500 miles and his garage carried out a 
service which dealt with the matter temporarily. Mr S had the car inspected by a main dealer 
which suggested the problem was caused by his driving style rather than a defect. Mr S 
didnt agree and explained that he drove the car at over 40mph for a minimum period of 20-
30 minutes per day.
In June 2019 he complained to RCI. It rejected the complaint saying he had been shown the 
model and that hed told the dealer that hed driven this type of model in the past so was 
comfortable with it. RCI also said that Mr S had signed the agreement and the pre-contract 
documents meaning he was given an opportunity to make an informed decision.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. Mr S said that he thought the DPF was faulty 
and he hadnt been advised the car wasnt suitable for his driving school business
Our investigator noted the testimony of both Mr S and the dealer. She concluded it would 
have been clear to the dealer that the car was to be used to teach people to drive even 
though the paperwork referred to him working for the NHS. She also noted Mr S had 14 
years worth of experience of diesel cars and those with a DPF system. Mr S had confirmed 
that he had regularly driven the car at a high enough speed to clear out the filter as was 
recommended. 
Our investigator thought the dealer probably unintentionally omitted to let Mr S know of the 
implications of having a car with a DPF system and he should have advised him it was 
unsuitable to be used in a driving school.
She also considered the reliability of the car which was new when purchased. She thought it 
shouldnt have suffered repeated DPF failures. The dealer had accepted there was a 
DRN-1783527problem but had put it down to Mr Ss driving style. However, Mr S was an experienced drive 
and had conformed he had driven the car regularly at the required speed to keep the DPF 
clean. Despite there being no independent report our investigator concluded that it was most 
likely there was an inherent fault. 
RCI didnt agree and said Mr S had experience of driving diesel cars and would have been 
able to judge if this car was suitable. It also noted that other major driving schools used 
diesel cars. It added that this model was normally sold with a petrol engine and sourcing a 
diesel model would have been more challenging which indicated Mr Ss desire for a diesel 
version.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
RCI is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
There are two issues with this complaint, was the car mis-sold and was it sufficiently 
durable? On the first I consider the matter is far from straightforward. 
The CRA requires the goods to be as described. I cannot see that it has been established 
that the dealer told Mr S the car was suitable for his work. For there to be misrepresentation 
there needs to be a misstatement of fact and I have not seen evidence that this occurred. 
However, this is not the only issue which needs to be considered.
I am satisfied the salesman would have been aware of the intended use of the car and it is 
not clear that Mr S was told it was unsuitable. To have failed to do so would amount to a 
breach of contract, selling goods which werent fit for the purpose for which they were 
intended.
However, as RCI has pointed out other driving instructors use diesel cars and there is no 
general view that they are unsuitable. So while it is not clear that the actual model wasnt 
suited for its intended use, it seems to have turned out to be unsuitable. Mr S has said he 
was aware of the requirement to drive diesel cars at a certain speed for a period of time on a regular basis to clear the DPF system. He has also said this is what he did. I am satisfied Mr 
S is an experienced driver and that he ensured the car was driven in such a way that the 
DPF system was regularly cleaned. 
RCI has argued that the problems with the car were due to the way it was driven by Mr S. 
But if the dealer knew what its intended use was it would have known that it would be driven 
in a certain way which might cause problems. So either the dealer knew the car was 
unsuitable for its intended use or it was suitable, but suffered a fault or faults which rendered 
it unfit for purpose.
The EML came on several times in the first months of use and that calls into question the 
fitness of the car. A new car shouldnt suffer such failures so early in its existence and as 
such I am not persuaded that it was fit for purpose. 
Putting things right
This leads me to believe that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld and he should be allowed to 
reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct RCI Financial Services Limited 
to:
Collect the vehicle without cost to Mr S
Refund Mr Ss deposit of £300 (plus 8% simple interest from date paid until date of
settlement)
Clear all information regarding the HPA from Mr Ss credit file
Considering Mr S has had use of the car I think its fair for RCI to keep all
repayments made under the agreement.
Pay Mr S £150 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman