DRN-3653263
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Nationwide Building Society adding arrears markers to his credit 
file following a Covid relief payment holiday in 2020.
Background
Mr K has a personal loan with Nationwide. In March 2020 following the first Covid lockdown 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) released guidance to credit providers allowing 
consumers to apply for payment holidays on existing forms of credit such as loans, credit 
cards or mortgages. These payment holidays allowed consumers to have a break from 
making their normal monthly repayments without arrears markers being added to their credit 
files. Firms were still allowed to charge interest on the missed repayments but were asked to 
recalculate or extend the loan at the end of the break to give consumers time to repay the 
outstanding balance at the end of the payment holiday. 
Mr K applied for such a payment holiday from his Nationwide loan repayments, and this was 
approved in April 2020. This first three-month break came to an end in June 2020 at which 
time Mr K contacted Nationwide to discuss his options. At that time, he was given some 
incorrect information regarding a second payment holiday and asked to complete an income 
and expenditure form by the person he spoke to. This wasnt necessary as Mr K was entitled 
to take a second payment holiday, which he ultimately did, and that ran from July 2020 until 
October 2020. 
When the second payment holiday came to an end Mr K contacted Nationwide again. At this 
time, he was told he would have to complete another income and expenditure form in order 
for his loan to be recalculated and the additional interest now due added into the overall 
amount owed. Mr K was extremely frustrated by this request as he had found the previous, 
and unnecessary, conversation in June very invasive and he didnt understand why 
Nationwide couldnt just extend his loan by six months and keep the monthly repayment 
amount the same. So, he refused to complete the form and began making monthly 
payments to the amount he had been paying prior to taking the payment holiday.
However, Mr K then discovered that Nationwide had incorrectly added arrears markers to his 
credit file for payments due during the payment holiday. He had applied for a mortgage with 
Nationwide in September 2021 but was unsuccessful and believes this was due to the 
markers impacting his overall credit score. He has also told us that he was contacted around 
this time by another credit provider, B, whom he had two credit cards with telling him it was 
reducing the credit limit on both cards. Mr K believes B only reduced his card limits because 
of the incorrect markers on his credit file. 
Nationwide accept that Mr K has received poor customer service in regard to the payment 
holiday, what happened when he contacted it in June 2020 and that arrears markers were 
added to his credit file in error. However, it doesnt accept that the markers were the only 
reason he was unable to obtain the mortgage he wanted in September 2021 and has 
confirmed these werent the only things it considered when assessing the application. It 
apologised to Mr K and offered a total of £175 for the upset and inconvenience caused by 
the incorrect information he was given and the incorrect application of the markers on his 
credit file. 
Mr K didnt accept Nationwides offer as he didnt think it went far enough to acknowledge 
the distress and upset caused to him and his wife following the loss of the house they had 
wanted to purchase. Mr K has said he lost fees paid to mortgage brokers as well as the 
inconvenience of losing the available credit with B. He wants Nationwide to write off the 
balance of his loan, which at the time of his complaint was approximately £18,000. 
Nationwide didnt agree to write off the balance and so Mr K brought his complaint to our 
service to be reviewed. One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks complaint already. She 
found that the markers had stayed on Mr Ks credit file up until summer this year, although it 
was unclear whether that was the result of an error on Nationwides part, or an error made 
by the credit reference agency. However, she did think that Nationwide had taken far too 
long to try to resolve the matter for Mr K. She accepted that the markers on his credit file 
would likely have impacted his mortgage application but was unable to find that it was the 
sole reason the application was declined. She suggested that Nationwide pay Mr K an 
additional £450 compensation, bringing the total amount to £625 for the upset the errors had 
caused. 
Nationwide agreed with the adjudicators findings, but Mr K didnt and so the complaint has 
been passed to me for consideration. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The details of this case are lengthy and well known to both parties and so I will not repeat 
them in full here. Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less 
detail than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here, whether or not the 
proposed compensation put forward by the adjudicator is sufficient.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature 
of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Nationwide accept that it incorrectly added markers to Mr Ks credit file following the end of 
the second payment holiday in 2020. However, it disputes that these were the sole reason 
for Mr Ks mortgage application in September 2021 being declined. In order to better 
understand why Mr Ks application was unsuccessful at that time we asked for Nationwide to 
provide some information around the underwriting decision it made at that time. Having 
reviewed this I am satisfied that, while the markers likely impacted the decision made by 
Nationwide, they werent the only thing taken into consideration at the time his application 
was processed. 
In order to try to understand more about the impact of the markers our adjudicator asked Mr 
K to provide a copy of his credit file so she could consider whether there was any other 
information that may have impacted the decision made by Nationwide. However, Mr K never 
provided this information despite multiple requests to do so. 
This means I cant safely say that if the markers hadnt been registered on Mr Ks credit file 
his mortgage application wouldve been successful. I know Mr K will disagree with me on this 
point and I am unable to disclose the details of the information provided by Nationwide as its lending criteria is commercially sensitive. But I hope he gets some reassurance from 
knowing we asked for this evidence and have reviewed it in detail. 
Mr K has also said that B reduced his credit limit on two credit cards because of the markers 
on his account. Again, its unclear whether or not this was the reason behind Bs decision, as 
its unclear what Mr Ks other credit obligations were. I can confirm that in early 2021, 
following the initial impact of the Covid pandemic, B made the decision to reduce credit limit 
facilities for a lot of its customers. Many people who held credit cards with B had their limits 
reduced at this time and so, without a clearer understanding of his personal commitments at 
the time, Im unable to find that Mr Ks limits were reduced solely because of the markers on 
his credit file. 
In regard to the markers themselves, it does appear that this issue went on for much longer 
than it shouldve. Mr K notified Nationwide about the markers in November 2020. In January 
2021 Nationwide wrote to Mr K apologising for the error and promised to amend his credit 
file. In February 2021, when the markers were still on Mr Ks file Nationwide offered to pay 
him £75 compensation and promised again to remove the markers. 
However, the markers continued to be reported by a single credit reference agency despite 
Nationwide repeatedly requesting they be removed. By this time Mr K had brought his 
complaint to our service and during our adjudicators investigation Nationwide realised that 
one credit reference agency was still reporting markers on Mr Ks loan and that the loan itself 
was being duplicated on its records. Despite repeated requests from Nationwide, it took until 
June of this year for the duplicate arrears to be removed by the credit reference agency and 
for Mr Ks record with it to be brought into good order. 
It is worth noting that the problem regarding the duplication of the loan and reporting of 
markers only relate to a single credit reference agency. The other agencies all amended 
their records correctly when Nationwide updated Mr Ks account information. So, it is 
possible that the loan duplication and arrears reporting were the result of an error made by 
the credit reference agency and not the result of Nationwide providing incorrect information 
to it. 
Nationwide has now confirmed that the information held by all credit reference agencies is 
correct and there are no arrears markers on Mr Ks file in relation to this loan. Mr Ks loan 
has also since been rewritten and the account is up to date. In August 2021 Nationwide had 
written to Mr K regarding the markers on his file and offered an additional £100 in recognition 
of the fact that they hadnt been removed fully. That brought the total amount of 
compensation offered by Nationwide to £175. 
I appreciate that Mr K feels very strongly that the offer put forward by Nationwide was 
insufficient and didnt acknowledge the impact the markers had had on him and his family. 
Compensation is a very personal thing and I know Mr K holds Nationwide solely responsible 
for the problems he had securing a mortgage in September 2021. And, like our adjudicator, I 
agree that £175 is not a fair amount in regard to the upset caused.
However, I also dont agree that Nationwide is obliged to write off the remaining balance on 
Mr Ks loan, which was substantial. I agree with our adjudicator that an additional £450 
compensation, on top of the £175 already offered, is a reasonable amount and recognises 
the distress caused. I say this because I am unable to conclude that markers on Mr Ks 
credit file were the sole reason his mortgage application was declined. I do understand that 
this has taken far too long to remedy for Mr K but as I mentioned above based on the 
information Ive seen I cant safely conclude that all of the problems experience by Mr K are 
the result of errors made by Nationwide. So, it would be unreasonable for me to ask it to 
compensate Mr K in this way.Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr K a total of £625 compensation in recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience cause. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am partially upholding Mr Ks complaint against Nationwide 
Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman