DRN-2743925
The complaint
Ms R complains that UIA (Insurance) Limited trading as UIA Mutual Insurance unfairly 
declined a claim on her home insurance policy. Where I refer to UIA this includes its agents 
and claims handlers.
What happened
After a period of stormy weather Ms R noticed her quarry-tile kitchen floor had started to bow 
upwards. She contacted her insurer and UIA suggested Ms R get a specialist to look at the 
damage to see if itd been caused by an insured peril. Ms R felt that was unfair. She didnt 
work in the insurance industry and wasnt familiar with the terms or procedures. Shed 
suffered some damage and wanted her insurers to look into it for her.
After paying for a local firm of structural engineers to visit her property Ms R was told the 
most likely cause of the damage was incoming water due to a failure in the tanking 
membrane/sealing or an issue with the drains close to the kitchen. The recent storms 
wouldve caused problems. And it should be treated as an insured peril.
Ms R said a total of four surveys were carried out before UIA declined her claim. Shes 
worried about the cost of putting everything right. Ms R believes a storm caused damage to 
a pipe under the kitchen. And she wants UIA to accept her claim.
UIA said itd instructed a drainage team to visit Ms Rs property. But it couldnt find any 
damage to the drains which affected serviceability and it didnt think it was the cause of the 
damage to the kitchen flooring. A follow-up inspection hadnt been able to find any leaks in 
the cold-water pipes or central heating. 
UIA said Ms Rs property was on a hillside and there was a lot of ground above the level of 
the property to the rear. Because the damage had occurred after heavy rain it indicated the 
damage to the flooring was due to a rise in groundwater levels. UIA said the surveyors visit 
confirmed there were no leaks identified in the property. So unfortunately the policy didnt 
cover the damage Ms R had suffered in her home. It hadnt been caused by an insured peril.
Ms R wasnt satisfied with UIAs response. So she contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. He appreciated it can be confusing for policyholders if theyve not had 
many previous dealings with their insurer. 
But after listening to the calls with UIA our investigator felt itd tried to explain that Ms R 
needed to show an insured peril had taken place before it could assist her. He felt UIA had 
explained what that meant and he felt it was reasonable for UIA to suggest that Ms R get a 
builder or surveyors report to see whatd caused the damage. 
Our investigator could see thered been periods of stormy weather around the time the 
damage was noticed. And on occasion the high winds had been accompanied by a high 
level of rainfall. So he was satisfied there were storm conditions around the date the damage 
occurred.
But he didnt think the damage was consistent with the sort of damage a storm might cause. 
And after looking at the various reports he was satisfied the storm hadnt led to any damage 
to the drains. It wasnt the main cause of the damage to the floor. 
Our investigator said the home insurance policy didnt provide cover for damage caused by a 
rise in the water table. And the accidental damage cover had an exclusion which meant 
Ms R wasnt covered for any damage caused by water entering her home. So he didnt think 
UIA had acted unfairly in declining the claim. And he wouldnt be upholding the complaint.
Ms R didnt agree. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Im sorry this has happened. I can see its been a very distressing experience for 
Ms R. And it mustve been very upsetting to be told her claim was being declined.
My decision is based on the available evidence. When the information is unclear or 
contradictory I have to reach a decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words what 
I think is more likely to have happened in light of the evidence Ive seen and the wider 
circumstances. And its important to note that sometimes the evidence might only show what 
didnt happen. Its not possible in every incident to be sure what the likely cause was.
There are three main issues here and Ms Rs representative has provided a lot of further 
information and I appreciate the detail he has gone into. I wont comment on every point. But 
I have looked at everything both parties have said. And Ill concentrate my decision on the 
three main points that are most relevant to my decision. 
The service Ms R received
I can appreciate its not always an easy task to deal with an insurance claim. On top of the 
obvious distress caused by the incident itself, the policyholder has to show the insurer the 
damage was caused by something thats covered by their insurance policy. 
I wouldnt expect Ms R to be an expert in assessing damage or understanding some of the 
terminology used in insurance claims and documents. So Ive listened to the call between 
UIA and Ms R when she reported the damage to see how UIA handled the claim. And Ive 
listened to the call when Ms Rs daughter spoke to UIA following her mothers call. 
It mustve been upsetting that UIA didnt initially seem to want to help. But after discussing 
the damage with Ms R I do think UIAs representative explained it didnt have enough 
information to go ahead with a claim at that time. 
The representative explained the damage would have to have been caused by an insured 
peril such as flooding or storm damage. But Ms R hadnt noticed any damp patches, water 
stains or mould. There was just a buckled area of flooring. UIA suggested Ms R ask a local 
builder of surveyor to look at the floor. And UIA said it would be able to assist if Ms R could 
show the damage had been caused by an insured peril. 
I wouldnt expect UIA to pay for the initial investigation if it didnt think the damage had been 
caused by an event covered by the policy. But UIA did confirm it would reimburse the cost of 
the report if it showed an insured event had taken place. And I think thats a reasonable 
approach in the circumstances. I cant say UIA treated Ms R unfairly or unreasonably.Time issues
Ms R is unhappy with the length of time UIA took to consider and decline her claim. And I 
can understand how stressful a period of time it mustve been. I can see it took about three 
months for the investigations to take place. And I dont think thats unreasonable. None of 
the reports showed a clear cause for the damage. And further investigations were needed.
 
When UIA received the final report it tried to get in touch with Ms Rs daughter on the same 
day. UIA tried again over the next week before sending a final written response to Ms R. I 
know Ms R was waiting for the outcome but I dont think there were any unnecessary delays 
in UIA telling Ms R the claim had been declined. 
Declining the claim
When considering if I think UIAs decision to decline Ms Rs claim is fair I have to start by 
deciding if an insured event has taken place. An insured event would be the cause of the 
damage. And it would have to be listed as an insured peril in Ms Rs home insurance policy 
document.
 
I can see Ms R has lived at the property for over a decade without any previous problem. So 
it mustve been very worrying when the tiles in the centre of the kitchen flooring started to lift. 
After speaking to her insurer Ms R asked a firm of structural engineers to carry out an 
inspection and find out whatd caused the problem. The engineers said the floor was intact. 
But the tiled surface had come loose and lifted slightly  most likely due to the action of 
incoming water. And they suggested either the membrane or sealing had failed or there was 
a problem with the drains. The recent storms mightve caused excessing soil pore water 
pressures leading to the damage. So they felt it should be an insured risk. 
UIA looked at the information provided by Ms Rs investigation. And it asked a drainage 
company to carry out a fuller investigation of the drain running under the damaged area. The 
report showed some minor damage. But further testing suggested it wasnt the cause of the 
problem. The damage to the pipe wasnt affecting normal use and it wasnt severe enough to 
be the resulting cause of the damage to the flooring. 
A further investigation checked the propertys water supply and waste systems but couldnt 
find anything at fault. And UIA said it hadnt been able to identify an insured peril as the likely 
cause of the damage. It couldnt find any evidence of storm damage in the kitchen. And the 
investigations suggested the water table had risen. Unfortunately that wasnt covered by the 
home insurance policy.
Theres no dispute damage has occurred. And there seems to be a general agreement that 
water has caused the damage. So I can understand how frustrating this mustve been for 
Ms R. She says her neighbours hadnt suffered problems from rising groundwater.
Ms R feels the only clear evidence is the slight damage to the underground piping. She says 
the pipe testing was carried out under normal conditions. But the recent storms had been far 
from normal. And she thinks the storms were strong enough to have caused damage to the 
pipes. Thered been a long period of bad weather and the damage might not have been 
immediately obvious. And UIAs reports hadnt provided any other explanation.
Our investigator has explained our three-part process for considering claims involving storm 
damage. Although theres evidence of stormy weather at the time the damage occurred, 
based on what Ive seen I dont think the damage was consistent with the sort of damage a storm typically causes. And Ive not seen sufficient evidence to say storm conditions were 
the main cause of the damage to the kitchen flooring.
I accept that Ms R says the pipes were tested under normal conditions. But I dont think the 
rainfall during the storm was so extreme that it could cause damage to the pipes. And it 
wouldnt be reasonable to say the damage mightve been caused by a previous period of 
poor weather when theres no evidence to support that either. It wouldnt be fair to ask UIA to 
consider a claim for storm damage from an earlier date without supporting evidence. 
Ive looked at the various reports. And I havent disregarded the views of the structural 
engineers appointed by Ms R. When UIA received the report from Ms R it carried out further 
tests  including a CCTV inspection of the drains thatd been recommended by the 
engineers. 
But the report said the damage wasnt severe enough to be the cause of the damaged 
flooring. So I dont think it was unreasonable for UIA to rely on the opinions of its appointed 
experts. They were able to carry out a more comprehensive investigation. And although the 
pipes were ruled out as the likely cause, none of the reports have been able to determine 
exactly what caused the damage to the kitchen flooring. The general consensus was that a 
rise in the water table was the most likely cause. And therefore an insured event hadnt 
taken place. 
Ive also looked at the documents for Ms Rs home insurance policy. Loss or damage 
caused by water entering the home is excluded under the accidental damage cover. And 
under the storm or flood section any loss or damage caused by a rise in the water table is 
also excluded. 
For UIA to accept Ms Rs claim it would need to agree that a one-off insured peril had 
caused the damage. And despite commissioning a number of investigations UIA hasnt been 
able to do so. 
I understand how upsetting this has been for Ms R. And I appreciate there will be a 
considerable cost to her to put things right. The floor will need replacing and that will mean 
removing and then reinstating fixtures and fittings. 
If the repair works are able to show that the damaged flooring was caused by an insured 
event then Id expect UIA to look at the new information and reconsider her claim. And I 
would recommend Ms R contact UIA with any photos and supporting evidence from the 
excavation if that is the case.
I know Ms R will be disappointed with this outcome. And I appreciate the reasons why she 
brought this complaint to our service. But based on everything Ive seen I cant say, on the 
balance of probabilities, that an insured event has taken place and is the main cause of the 
damage to the kitchen flooring. 
My conclusion is that UIAs decision not to settle Ms Rs claim for storm damage was fair 
and reasonable. And I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman