DRN-2529715
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about a term assurance policy sold to them in 1995 by Lloyds Bank 
PLC.
What happened
In 1995 Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage with Lloyds. As part of the process they were 
sold a decreasing term life assurance policy connected to the mortgage.  
In 2020 Mr and Mrs G complained to Lloyds about the sale of the policy. They said they 
werent aware of the decreasing nature of the policy, they had existing policies in place, and 
they believed that getting the mortgage was dependent on them taking out the policy. 
Lloyds considered the complaint and thought the policy was suitable. They explained that at 
the time life cover was a requirement of getting a mortgage with them. They went on to say 
that the policy provided cover in line with the reducing balance of their mortgage. Lloyds 
acknowledged that Mr and Mrs G had death in service benefits from their employers but still 
thought the policy was suitable. Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy so brought their complaint 
to this service.
One of our investigators looked into things and thought the policy wasnt mis-sold. They said 
it was mandatory at the time to have life cover and they thought the documents made the 
decreasing nature of the policy clear. Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy so the complaint has 
come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy was sold in 1995 which is some 25 years ago. In situations like this where a lot of 
time has passed, and there isnt a full record of what happened, I must come to a decision 
on the balance of probabilities as to what I think was mostly likely to have happened.
Mr and Mrs G have provided a lot of information about their complaint and why they feel the 
policy was mis-sold. I want to assure Mr and Mrs G that Ive read everything theyve 
provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive summarised what happened which reflects 
the informal nature of our service. 
Back in 1995 it wasnt unusual for mortgage lenders to require borrowers to have life 
insurance cover in place. The mortgage offer document signed by Mr and Mrs G says at 
point 3 Details of Life Assurance required as security. So based on evidence from the time 
Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs G were required to have a policy in order to get the mortgage 
they wanted.
I know Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that having life insurance was a requirement of getting the 
mortgage but this was a policy of Lloyds at the time and its not for me to tell them how to do 
business. It was also common industry practice at the time so its a possibility that wherever 
Mr and Mrs G applied for a mortgage they wouldve been required to have life insurance. 
Ive also thought about the other issues raised by Mr and Mrs G.
Mr and Mrs G say they werent given the opportunity to obtain life cover through another 
provider and nor were they told about other types of policies. Theres not enough evidence 
to say that these things werent discussed with Mr and Mrs G. But in any event the policy 
was suitable and was a condition of taking out the mortgage. And Im not sure what other 
policy wouldve been more suitable for Mr and Mrs G in this situation.
Mr and Mrs G say that they both had death in service policies so they didnt need any extra 
life cover. That type of policy is linked to an employer so if a consumer was to change jobs 
those policies would cease. Whilst they provide very useful cover, theyre not guaranteed to 
last the same term as the mortgage because employment circumstances could change. This 
means death in service polices arent usually suitable to protect a mortgage. A more suitable 
type of policy is the one that Mr and Mrs G were sold which is specifically to cover the 
mortgage amount and term. Because the mortgage would be covered it leaves any death in 
service benefit to be used as the surviving spouse wishes.
The policy sold to Mr and Mrs G was a decreasing term policy. This means that it is set for 
the term of the mortgage and that the sum assured decreases over that term in line with the 
mortgage balance. This type of policy is usually cheaper than a level term policy where the 
sum assured stays the same for the whole term. Those type of policies are usually more 
suitable where a customer has a need for extra cover. Mr and Mrs G say they had death in 
service benefits, as discussed above, so seemingly didnt have any need for extra cover. 
This means that I think a decreasing term policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs G.
Mr and Mrs G say also say the decreasing nature of the policy didnt take into account them 
wanting to re-mortgage in the future, however I wouldnt expect this kind of policy to do that. 
The policy was sold specifically to cover the mortgage they were taking out and if there was 
any further borrowing in the future, be that with Lloyds or another lender, then the need for 
any top-up life cover could be re-assessed at the time. 
Mr and Mrs G also feel that the decreasing nature of the policy wasnt made clear to them. 
Ive seen a copy of the schedule from the time the policy was taken out which says Sum 
Assured £56057 (Reducing in accordance with the Policy Rules). The key features 
document says As the outstanding balance on your repayment loan decreases over the 
term, the amount of life assurance cover on your policy also decreases. 
Lloyds say that sending out the policy schedule and documents was part of the application 
process, which is what I would expect. They dont have any proof the documents were 
posted, which isnt surprising as the sale took place in 1995. But Ive seen a copy of the 
policy acceptance letter which was correctly addressed to Mr and Mrs G and sent around the 
same time. 
Having considered everything Im persuaded on balance that Lloyds explained the 
decreasing nature of the policy. Whilst I cant say what was discussed between Lloyds and 
Mr and Mrs G it is standard practice for an advisor to explain and discuss the products 
theyre selling. Also Lloyds say they wouldve sent out the documents. If those documents 
didnt align with what Mr and Mrs G had been told then they wouldve had the chance to ask 
questions or cancel the policy. On balance I think that on either, or both occasions, Lloyds 
made clear how the policy works.Part of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint is that the statements theyve received over the years 
arent clear about the decreasing nature of the policy. They say theyve used these 
statements as proof of life cover with other lenders. Statements are sent to Mr and Mrs G by 
the product provider and not Lloyds. Since this complaint isnt against the product provider I 
cant comment on the format of the statements or the information they include. 
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied the policy that Lloyds sold Mr and Mrs G 
was a requirement of the mortgage and was suitable for their needs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman