DRN-2832417
The complaint
Ms K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) reduced 
her limit on her card.
What happened
In February 2021, Barclaycard reduced the limit on Ms Ks card from £2,300 to £1,150. 
Ms K complained that this was unfair  and changed the terms and conditions on her 
account.
Barclaycard said that they reviewed customers limits regularly to ensure they are lending 
responsibly and in the light of information they get from credit reference agencies. This was 
the case for Ms K. Barclaycard said they could change limits without warning customers, as 
it was in their terms and conditions. Ms K could ask for an increase in her limit again after six 
months had gone by.
Ms K brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclaycard had acted reasonably. 
He said that Barclaycards terms and conditions enabled them to change credit limits  and 
they didnt need to give any notice to customers either. Also, Ms K had told Barclaycard she 
was in financial difficulty  so it was understandable that theyd reduced her limit.
Ms K disagreed. She said she wanted compensation of £100 for what had happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In looking at Ms Ks complaint, let me say that Im looking only at the reduction in her limit  
this is what she originally asked us to review. During the course of our investigations, shes 
raised several other points about Barclaycard. Im not going to address these as theyre not 
relevant to her original complaint.
I can appreciate where Ms K is coming from. Ive seen her statements  she had a limit of 
£2300 and borrowed up to this limit until December 2020, when she reduced her borrowing 
down to about £1060 debit. And then  Barclaycard reduced her limit to £1150. I can see 
that this may have caused some pressure on her finances.
But equally, Barclaycard do have a responsibility to make sure that the borrowing by their 
customers is affordable  it doesnt help either Barclaycard or their customers to borrow 
more than is affordable. So, they review, and change, customer limits from time to time. And 
 their terms and conditions do say they can do this and not give any notice to customers. 
They say at Section 12 Using your account.  Managing your credit limits:
If we reduce your credit limit based on an assessment of risk or your ability to repay, we
have the right to not give you any notice beforehand if we think this would not be
appropriate. (However, we may choose to give you up to seven days notice). We wont
reduce your credit limit to less than your total outstanding balance, plus any transactions
authorised but not yet charged to your account.
I can only uphold Ms Ks complaint if I think Barclaycard have made an error in applying their 
policies and terms. And  on this basis, I cant conclude that theyve done anything wrong. 
And so  I wont be asking Barclaycard to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman