DRN-3342189
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the support he received from Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading 
as Moneybarn (Moneybarn).
What happened
In January 2019, Mr C entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to acquire 
a motorbike first registered in 2016. The cash price of the motorbike was around £4,031. The 
total amount payable was approximately £7,124. Mr C provided an advance payment of 
around £400, and there were 59 equal consecutive monthly payments each around £114. 
On 23 March 2020, the UK Government announced the UK would enter a lockdown due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr C said that due to the pandemic eventually he was made 
unemployed. As such, he said he called Moneybarn and completed an online payment 
deferral request for June, July and August 2020 payments, which he says was agreed by 
Moneybarn.  
In September 2020, Moneybarn wrote to Mr C. In this correspondence they said that they 
can see that he cancelled his direct debit on 23 June 2020. They said that on 30 June 2020, 
they sent him an automated SMS, and an email, advising him that arrears were present on 
his account, and requested that he contact them to discuss this. In this correspondence they 
also explained that on 30 June 2020, they received a payment deferral application from him, 
in which Mr C stated that he had applied for one previously, and that he wanted to extend it 
by one month. In the September 2020 correspondence, they explained to Mr C that on 24 
July 2020 they contacted him by email in response to his payment deferral request, which he 
submitted on 30 June 2020. 
In the 24 July 2020 correspondence, Moneybarn said they advised Mr C that they found no 
record of a payment deferral request until 30 June 2020. That is why they said they 
requested that he provide them with evidence of the agreed payment deferral and asked him 
to complete an income and expenditure assessment, so they could further assess his 
eligibility for a payment deferral. Moneybarn, in this correspondence, also said that should 
Mr C provide the required evidence supporting his previous payment deferral request, they 
could retrospectively apply one to his finance agreement with the additional month he 
requested. But they said that they received no further contact from Mr C until he raised his 
complaint in August 2020. So Moneybarn didnt think they had done anything wrong. 
Moreover, they say that in the September 2020 correspondence to Mr C they explained to 
him that if he was experiencing financial difficulties as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, he 
should contact their customer services team, or alternatively log in to his online account, to 
discuss the options available to him. They went on to explain that this way he would be able 
to discuss his options regarding payment deferrals, and if they could apply one to cover the 
missed payments, which if agreed, they said would negate any negative impact caused to 
his credit file at the time. 
Mr C was unhappy with Moneybarns response, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 14 February 2022. In the 
provisional decision I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to
assure Mr C and Moneybarn that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mr C acquired the motorbike under a conditional sale agreement, which is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. 
This case centres around the question of whether Moneybarn has done enough to support 
Mr C, when he requested a payment deferral. So, Ive thought about the relevant rules and 
guidance at the time. The rules and guidance mentioned below refer to customers and 
consumers, and I will be using these words interchangeably, but in this decision the words 
are to have the same meaning.  
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), and in 
particular CONC 7, titled Arrears, default and recovery (including repossession), says that 
firms should treat consumers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration. Treating consumers with forbearance could include such things as 
considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or charges, 
allowing deferment of payment of arrears, and accepting token payments for a reasonable 
period of time. 
The FCA on 24 April 2020 also published additional guidance  Motor finance agreements 
and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. This guidance introduced temporary 
measures for consumers whose finances had been impacted by Covid-19, and it builds on 
Principle 6 (A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly).
In relation to the payment deferrals  the guidance states the following: Where a customer 
is already experiencing or reasonably expects to experience temporary payment difficulties 
as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to receive a payment 
deferral, a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm 
determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers interests to do so. 
And it states that: In determining whether a 3 month payment deferral is obviously not in 
customers interests, firms should consider both customers need for immediate temporary support and the longer-term effects of a payment deferral on the customers situation, in 
particular the customers ability to repay any accrued interest once the payment deferral 
ends, and over what period. 
This guidance was further updated by the FCA in July 2020. This update was published a 
short period after Mr C contacted Moneybarn, but I think it is relevant to this case, as it builds 
on the previous guidance. The guidance states that: There is no expectation under this 
guidance that the firm makes enquiries with each customer to determine the circumstances 
surrounding a request for a payment deferral, or whether this is not in the customers 
interests. Firms can, however, choose to make the enquiries they consider necessary in 
order to satisfy themselves that the customer is eligible for support and to identify whether 
the customer would benefit from any additional support, provided that this does not delay the 
provision of timely support..
Bearing in mind all of the above guidance, Ive thought about when Mr C asked Moneybarn 
for assistance. Mr C said he called Moneybarn and completed an online payment deferral 
request for June, July and August 2020 payments, which he says was agreed by 
Moneybarn. But Moneybarn said that Mr C cancelled his direct debit on 23 June 2020, and 
according to them it was only on 30 June 2020 that they received a payment deferral 
application from him. This wouldve been already after he missed the June 2020 payment. I 
know that Mr C mentioned in this deferral application that he had applied for one previously, 
but Ive not seen evidence that would allow me to say that most likely he did make this 
previous contact. So, Ive gone on to think about whether fair options were given to Mr C 
once he did ask for assistance.   
While I understand that Moneybarn wanted Mr C to provided them with an income and 
expenditure assessment, so they could further assess his eligibility for a payment deferral, I 
dont think it was fair to not provide Mr C with the deferral he was requesting considering the 
specific circumstances of Mr Cs case. Overall, I think the intention of the FCA guidance was 
for firms to provide quick, immediate short-term assistance to consumers in difficulty without 
the need for prolonged discussions or detailed additional checks before agreeing a payment 
deferral. Also I say this because I think it would be difficult for consumers to predict, with any 
degree of certainty, in the early days of the Covid-19 pandemic how significantly they would 
be affected by Covid-19 and/or the lockdowns. In addition, I accept that Mr C may have been 
late asking for help. However, considering the specific circumstances of this case, when Mr 
C asked for help, I think it mightve been fairer for Moneybarn to have given Mr C the 
deferral for the three months he had requested, rather than asking for an income and 
expenditure assessment. 
According to Moneybarn, the first payment deferral request they received from Mr C was on 
30 June 2020, but they didnt contact Mr C until 24 July 2020, almost a month later, and 
Moneybarn wouldve also known that something was not right when Mr C cancelled his 
direct debit in April 2020. Mr C contacted Moneybarn, at the latest on 30 June 2020, 
because he, like many people at the time, was facing a period of reduced income and was 
uncertain about what the future might hold considering he lost his job. The guidance, 
mentioned above, published by the FCA, was intended to provide a quick, immediate short-
term assistance to consumers to address this type of scenario, and to provide some 
immediate relief to consumers; such as payment deferrals for a period of up to three months. 
I think the intention of the FCA guidance, mentioned above, was to provide exceptional and 
quick, immediate short-term assistance to allow consumers breathing space while the 
pandemic unfolded. But I dont think this is what happened here. This is because on 24 July 
2020, almost a month after Mr C told Moneybarn that he needed assistance, and already 
two months after he missed his first payment, they told him that for them to continue 
processing his request they needed him to complete an income and expenditure form. This was, as explained to Mr C in the correspondence they sent him, so that they could gain a full 
understanding of his current financial situation. The FCA guidance says Moneybarn couldve 
chosen to make the enquiries they considered necessary in order to satisfy themselves that 
the Mr C is eligible for support, but this was provided that these enquiries do not delay the 
provision of timely support. And there was no expectation under the guidance that the firms 
make enquiries with each consumer to determine the circumstances surrounding a request 
for a payment deferral. While I appreciate that Moneybarn wanted to get a full understanding 
of Mr Cs financial situation, and that Mr C may have been late in asking for assistance, I 
dont think that it was fair to delay the financial assistance any further, given the particular 
circumstances of this case. I say this because I dont think the decision made by Moneybarn 
was in line with the spirit of the FCAs guidance intended to provide quick, immediate short-
term assistance. 
So overall, I think Moneybarn shouldve allowed Mr C to take a three-month payment 
deferral, which wouldve likely been of great help to him. Bearing this in mind, I think it is fair 
and reasonable that Moneybarn grant Mr C a three-month deferral in relation to June, July 
and August 2020 payments, and arrange to remove any adverse information from his credit 
file for the period in question. Also, Moneybarn should remove any fees and charges in 
relation to the June, July and August 2020 missed payments  if any have been incurred.  
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint, and direct Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited trading as Moneybarn to: 
1. Grant Mr C a three-month deferral in relation to the June, July and August 2020 
payments;
2. Remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file in relation to the June, July 
and August 2020 missed payments;
3. Remove any fees and charges in relation to the June, July and August 2020 missed 
payments  if any have been incurred.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments or information they would 
like me to consider by 28 February 2022. And I extended the deadline to 18 March 2022. 
Mr C responded and reiterated some of his original points. And Moneybarn didnt provide a 
response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and considering neither Mr C nor Moneybarn provided any further, or new, 
information I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to what I reached in my 
provisional decision (copied above).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, and direct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn to: 
1. Grant Mr C a three-month deferral in relation to the June, July and August 2020 
payments;
2. Remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file in relation to the June, July 
and August 2020 missed payments;3. Remove any fees and charges in relation to the June, July and August 2020 missed 
payments  if any have been incurred.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman