DRN-2037543
The complaint
Mr H complains about Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S Bank) retaining his 
personal information following a credit card application, which he later cancelled.
What happened
On 12 December 2019 Mr H applied and was accepted for a M&S Bank credit card  the 
application was completed in one of its retail stores by a M&S Bank sales agent. Mr H 
changed his mind and on 7 January 2020, he called M&S Bank to cancel the credit card and 
requested confirmation that all of his personal details would be removed from its systems. 
The call handler confirmed the card would be cancelled but couldnt give Mr H an answer 
about the personal details issue. So it was agreed the bank would contact him at a later date 
about this. When Mr H received no response, he complained to M&S Bank
M&S Bank didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It initially said his personal details would be kept 
for one year due to the checks itd done with credit reference agencies. After Mr H brought 
his complaint to our service, M&S Bank corrected its position. It said Mr Hs information 
would be kept for seven years. It said this was in line with its retention policy and the 
purpose was for the reasons itd initially gave, as well as for auditing and regulatory checks. 
Our investigator considered the terms and conditions of the account made it clear that M&S 
Bank were entitled to retain Mr Hs personal information. But she didnt think the customer 
service Mr H received, was reasonable given the communication issues that followed his 
contact with the bank in January 2020. The investigator said M&S Bank should pay Mr H 
£50 for the distress and inconvenience it caused. Mr H disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out my findings, I will start by saying that whilst I understand how strongly Mr H 
feels about this matter and have considered everything hes said, Ive limited my findings to 
the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Further, where there's a dispute about what happened, I've based my decision on what I 
consider is most likely to have occurred in light of the evidence.
Given the nature of his complaint, Mr H understandably wants a decision about whether 
M&S Bank are breaching data protection laws. But its not within my remit to do this. Mr H 
should get in contact with the Information Commissioners Office, if he wishes to receive a 
determination addressing any specific points about whether data protection regulations have 
been breached. That said, I will take into account the relevant laws and regulations when 
deciding whether M&S Bank have acted fairly and reasonably towards him.
At the point of sale I think its more likely than not, that Mr H was given a copy of the credit 
card agreement and terms and conditions of the account. This is something M&S Banks 
sales agents are required to do for all applicants. Further, Mr H wouldve also been read, or 
told how to find, the banks Privacy Policy which goes into more detail about how it handles 
personal data. The terms and conditions make reference to some key information about how 
data will be handled where it says:
 
"You explicitly consent to us accessing, processing and retaining any information you 
provide to us, for the purposes of providing payment services to you. This does not affect 
any rights and obligations you or we have under data protection legislation. You may 
withdraw this consent by closing your account. If you do this, well stop using your data for 
this purpose, but may continue to process your data for other purposes." 
In this case the other purposes are twofold. First, M&S Bank keeps a record of the 
searches its registered with credit reference agencies  this ensures the information can be 
cross referenced for accuracy. Second, it does so for auditing and regulatory purposes. And 
it should be noted that under data protection regulations, businesses are allowed to keep 
personal data for legitimate purposes  Mr Hs consent is not needed in this scenario. In 
terms of timescales, I see the banks retention policy says where an application has been 
unsuccessful or withdrawn, their personal details will still be kept for seven years.
Given all of this, Im satisfied that M&S Bank made it reasonably clear to Mr H that his 
information could be kept even once the account was closed. The banks also provided 
reasonable explanations as to why it deems it necessary to do so. So I cant fairly say M&S 
Bank has done anything wrong by keeping Mr Hs personal data under these circumstances.
Mr H says the account was never opened so its unfair for M&S Bank to keep his personal 
information  hes particularly upset about it retaining the security questions information 
which includes his date of birth and his mothers maiden name. I sympathise with Mr H here, 
but after a few days his application was processed. And by the time he called in early 
January, almost a month into the process, it was too late to just treat the application as if itd 
never been made. I know Mr H says he did try to cancel the credit card application within a 
few days of setting it up. I dont doubt what he says, but neither he nor M&S Bank have any 
record of these attempts. So I dont think the bank did anything wrong by continuing to 
process his application.
In terms of the overall customer service, I can see several things did go wrong. Mr H wasnt 
contacted when hed requested this, and he was also given wrong information about how 
long his information would be kept in M&S Banks initial response after he complained. I 
understand this was upsetting and caused him inconvenience. But I dont think these issues 
were caused by M&S Bank doing anything wrong in terms of keeping Mr Hs data. So whilst I 
agree with the recommendation of £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, I 
wont be asking M&S Bank to do anything further. 
My final decision
Im upholding the complaint in part and order Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc to pay 
Mr H £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman