DRN-4432539
The complaint
Mrs C has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, allowed the contents of her 
savings account to be completely withdrawn over a short period of time without any 
intervention.
What happened
Mrs C is over 90 years old. One of her three daughters has been given power of attorney for 
financial matters by Mrs C. This daughter is Mrs K and represents her mother in this 
complaint.
Mrs C, accompanied by one of her daughters Mrs L, opened a savings account with Halifax 
on 7 April 2021. She deposited a large value cheque which was the proceeds of her account 
closure with another financial institution. This cheque was for £100,770.17.
A couple of days later, Mrs C, with Mrs L, went back into branch and withdrew £770 cash 
over the counter. As soon as the debit card and PIN for the account was received, regular 
(on occasion daily and frequently more than once a day) withdrawals of £100 were made. A 
bankers draft was withdrawn for £80,000 on 13 April. This was made out to Mr C. Mr C is 
most likely Mrs Cs ex-husband. Halifax noted Mrs C had presented a solicitors letter 
confirming Mrs C was due to pay Mr C a considerable sum of money. 
Further cash machine withdrawals were made along with two transfers to Mrs L for £10,000 
and £4,800. These two transfers along with a third for £5,369 to a third party were conducted 
in branch and required Mrs C to be present.
By July 2021 Mrs C was no longer living with Mrs L. Mrs K in discussion with her mother got 
an understanding of what had happened. Mrs C couldnt recall which financial institution 
shed been in to open an account. 
Initially Halifax were unable to locate Mrs Cs account but eventually did so. Mrs K had 
complained on her mothers behalf that theyd allowed her mother to be a victim of familial 
abuse. Halifax believed all transactions had been effectively authorised. Specifically theyd 
taken note of a solicitors letter explaining the large cheque withdrawal on 13 April 2021.
By this stage Mrs K had brought her mothers complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator considered the evidence. There was no doubt the genuine card and PIN 
had been used to withdraw funds from the account, but she couldnt see any reason why this 
would have alerted Halifax to take any action. She also felt, in light of the solicitors letter, 
that Halifax had taken proper steps to ensure Mrs C was withdrawing funds from her 
account.
Mrs K believed this was insufficient. She also remained upset about how Halifax had taken 
so long to identify her mothers account. Shes asked an ombudsman to consider Mrs Cs 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mrs Cs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
To help me come to a decision, Ive reviewed the evidence Halifax provided as well as what 
Mrs K has told us. 
Firstly I should say I appreciate how upsetting this must be for Mrs C and her family. The 
testimony given to us by Mrs K about the abuse and neglect her mother has suffered is 
distressing. I dont dispute her story that some form of financial abuse has more than likely 
taken place too.
Unfortunately that doesnt mean I can hold Halifax responsible for this. I say this because:
When opening the account they will have noticed Mrs C was in frail health but judged 
she was able to make her own financial decisions. Even if they had been aware of 
the existence of a power of attorney (which at that stage was still waiting for 
registration by the Office of Public Guardian), this wouldnt have meant Mrs C 
couldnt open a savings account, deposit a large amount of money and then take out 
funds.
Its clear Halifax took steps to ensure all transactions out of the account were 
properly authorised. I have seen copies of Mrs Cs signature for withdrawals which 
demonstrate she was in branch at the time these took place.
Our investigator has discussed the letter provided by a solicitors firm with a 
representative of that firm. This was given by Mrs L to support the £80,000 
withdrawal. This bankers draft was not in Mrs Ls name but Mr Cs. Although Ive not 
been able to see a copy of the letter, I believe this explained Mrs Cs financial liability 
to Mr C following a house sale. I appreciate theres been concerns raised by the 
solicitors of what went on but Im satisfied theres nothing that would suggest Halifax 
should have been concerned about this letter. I certainly wouldnt have expected 
them to contact the solicitors to test its veracity.
All cash machine withdrawals were carried out using the debit card and PIN related 
to Mrs Cs savings account. I dont dispute these were more likely carried out by 
Mrs L but dont feel theres any reason why Halifax should have noticed the number 
of withdrawals being made. I appreciate Mrs K disagrees with this aspect but there is 
no history or evidence to suggest when opening this account Mrs K would have 
confirmed the money was staying in the account for a while or anything similar which could have suggested Halifax should have been aware of what was going on.
Halifax work to a checklist when confirming high-value withdrawals. Ive seen a copy 
of this. Whilst it does talk about alerting customers to potential scams, there is 
nothing to indicate that customers should be alerted to the risk of familial fraud. I see 
nothing to suggest the Banking Protocol, as Mrs K suggests, should have been 
invoked.
What I cant know  because there is no supporting evidence one way or the other  is 
whether Halifax noticed Mrs Cs frailties. This could have led them to having a conversation 
with her on her own to check that all was above board. However I note another financial 
institution did have a conversation in private with Mrs C and she confirmed everything was 
being done to her wishes. Unfortunately I think its more than likely this is what shed have 
said to Halifax as well.
I do agree with Mrs K that Halifax has hardly covered itself in glory in trying to locate her 
mothers account. This seems to have taken an unreasonable period of time, and I am sure 
it added to Mrs Ks distress about her mothers situation.
Unfortunately Ive got no scope to ask Halifax to compensate Mrs K for her distress despite 
her acting as her mothers attorney.
Despite my sympathy for Mrs Cs situation, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
ask Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman