DRN-4226440
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about a claim Mr S made on their Fairmead Insurance Limited, 
trading as L&G (L&G) legal expenses insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs S say that L&G has treated them unfairly.
What happened
Mr S made a claim on his L&G legal expenses insurance policy for cover for legal expenses
in defending an appeal against a judgment hed obtained against his former employer in the
Employment Tribunal.
The history of the claim is well known to both parties, so I dont intend to repeat it here. The
issue this Service is considering is whether L&G were entitled to withdraw funding on this
matter when they did and whether they should pay the Barristers fees currently being
sought by the Chambers instructed by his own Solicitors in the litigation L&G had previously
agreed to fund.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs S complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld.
He said that L&G were entitled to withdraw funding when they discovered that this was a
claim they should never have covered, based on their policy terms. But he didnt think that
L&G needed to do anything further. This was because he thought that Mr S had the choice
to stand down the Barristers instructed by his Solicitors when L&G withdrew funding, which
would have considerably reduced the Solicitors liability to pay the costs being charged by
the Barristers. He also said that as L&G has offered to pay part of these costs, Mr S has
received the benefit of cover he wouldnt have otherwise been entitled to.
Mr and Mrs S dont agree so the matter was passed to me to determine.
In June 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that L&G made a mistake when they agreed to cover Mr 
S claim. For the sake of completeness, I agree that the type of action Mr S wanted cover 
for- to defend an appeal against his former employer in the Court of Appeal- wasnt covered 
by the policy. Thats because the policy only covers pursing legal action arising directly from 
a policyholders contract of employment- rather than defending litigation, as was the case
here. And Im satisfied there are no other policy terms that assist him in respect of this.
The issue that I need to decide is whether L&G were entitled to withdraw cover when they
did and whether they need to do anything further, like pay the Barristers fees Mr S says he
will ultimately be liable for. When L&G discovered its mistake, it withdrew funding. It also
offered to pay a proportion of those fees, but not all of them.
After reviewing things, in particular the terms of Mr S Solicitors retainer with the Barristers in
question, I asked the Chambers whether the fees charged would have been the same if Mr
S had stood down the Barristers on the date that L&G withdrew funding. The Chambers
responded confirming that the retainers in place with the Barristers were charged on a fixed
fee basis. So, the sums now payable would have been the same had Mr S stood them down
when funding was withdrawn by L&G or at conclusion.
The Chambers have also provided me with further detailed information about the Barristers
fees. As I understand it, the fixed fees charged were considerably less than if those
Barristers had acted on an hourly rate. This meant that the overall liability to L&G (had they
funded the entire matter) would have been less than if those Barristers had charged on a
usual hourly rate basis. Ive been told that by the time funding was withdrawn by L&G,
considerable work had already been conducted, which had necessitated one of the
Barristers having to break off their summer vacation to complete. And given the nature of the
charging arrangement, the full fee would still have been payable at that point, the same as it
would have been if the Barristers had conducted all the work to conclusion in a similar way
to if the matter had settled early.
Having considered this and the fact that Mr S would ultimately be liable for these fees-
because his Solicitors would inevitably claim against him for the liability they have to the
Chambers in question- I think that L&G do need to discharge these fees in the
circumstances. Whilst L&G were entitled to withdraw cover when they did, they also needed
to ensure that Mr and Mrs S werent worse off as a result of their actions. At present, it
seems to me that they are worse off because they are liable for fees that L&G agreed to pay
and they had no way of mitigating this loss because of the nature of the charging
arrangement, which was intended to benefit L&G from the outset. And those fees wouldnt
have necessarily been incurred if L&G hadnt expressly agreed to fund them.
For clarity, I would have reached the same conclusion as the investigator, if Mr S liability to
the Barristers would have been equivalent to what L&G had offered to pay in respect of
Barristers fees, if hed stood them down when cover was withdrawn. But since his liability to
pay the fees currently being sought are the same as if hed stood them down when cover
was withdrawn, I think its reasonable for L&G to discharge that liability to ensure that Mr S
position is protected. This accords broadly with the principle the investigator set out in his
view when he said that if there were any penalties from cancellation, then he wouldve
expected L&G to cover those costs together with the fees theyd already offered to cover
whilst cover was in place.
Ive also considered whether L&G needs to pay Mr and Mrs S anything further to
compensate them for the stress and loss of expectation caused by providing and then
withdrawing cover. Having done so, I dont think L&G need to do so. Thats because I think
that Mr S has had the benefit of cover for considerable legal fees that he otherwise wouldnt
have been entitled to, had L&G not provided cover in error. As such I cant compensate him
for the loss of something he wasnt ordinarily entitled to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked both parties whether they had any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider in response to my provisional decision. L&G have responded confirming they agree 
with my provisional findings. Mr and Mrs S have also responded. They say they have no 
further comments to make. In light of that, and given that no further submissions have been 
made by either party, I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld. As such I 
direct L&G to put things right in the way Ive set out below. Putting things right
Fairmead Insurance Limited, trading as L&G, need to pay all of the outstanding Barristers 
fees that Mr S will ultimately be liable for to his own Solicitors as a result of L&G withdrawing 
funding on his claim when they did.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint against Fairmead Insurance Limited, trading as L&G and 
direct them to comply with my award of Fair compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman