DRN-3957217
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax incorrectly told him to attend a 
branch.
What happened
Mr C says Halifax told him his account had been blocked and that he should attend a 
branch. He says he did so but was told by Halifax it had made a mistake. Mr C says he took 
a day off work and spent some time in a busy branch. He would like £200 compensation and 
says Halifaxs compensation offer isnt enough.
Halifax accepts it made a mistake and accepts Mr C attended a branch in around May 2022. 
It says its apologised and paid £100 compensation as well as £9 travel costs.
Mr C brought his complaint to us, and our investigator thought the compensation offer was 
appropriate.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says his friend took him to the branch. He says Halifax 
caused him stress and the compensation isnt enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Halifax has made an appropriate 
compensation offer. I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no dispute here that Halifax made a mistake by asking Mr C to attend a branch. I 
have no doubt Mr C was caused inconvenience and that he spent some time at the branch 
waiting for the problem to be resolved. But I can also see the mistake was corrected when 
Mr C was in branch and so I dont think this was a mistake that caused anything other than 
very short-term inconvenience. I dont think Mr C suffered any financial loss except the travel 
costs and can see that Halifax has fairly apologised for what took place.
The only real issue for me to decide is if Halifaxs compensation offer is fair and reasonable. 
And Im satisfied that it is, and in line with the type of awards we would make for this sort of 
impact. I have made clear the mistake was sorted out fairly quickly without any longer-term 
impact to Mr C or financial loss. 
I appreciate Mr C says he took a day off work to attend the branch, but I have not been 
provided with any evidence of loss of income or costs save for the travel costs. I cant fairly 
consider the impact on Mr Cs friend as he is not a party to this complaint.
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax has made an appropriate compensation offer and I cant fairly 
order it increase that amount.
Putting things right
It is not clear if Halifax has paid the compensation as Mr Cs account may have been closed. 
I can see Halifax says it sent Mr C a cheque for £109. If it has not been paid then Halifax 
should pay the £109 compensation if Mr C accepts this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has made a fair and 
reasonable compensation offer of £109. I direct it now pay Mr C that amount if it has not 
already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman