DRN-4454019
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as P, complains that ClearBank Limited wont reimburse the 
money they lost in connection with a scam.
As I understand it, P is a customer of Tide Platform Limited (Tide). Tide offers its customers 
such as P, bank accounts with ClearBank Limited. As this complaint is in relation to Ps 
account with ClearBank, the bank is ultimately responsible for this complaint. So, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to ClearBank throughout, but where relevant, the reference should be 
understood as meaning Tide.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length
here.
Briefly, in November 2022, the director of P  who I will refer to as L, was contacted by a 
scammer pretending to be from ClearBank. The scammer said that Ps account (with 
ClearBank) had been compromised and therefore P should move the money to a safe 
account. 
L then received a text which gave the new account details, and she was asked to enter Ps 
name as the account name. She proceeded to set up this account but when the caller asked 
her to transfer about £9,000 to this account, she became suspicious and disconnected the 
call. She did not proceed with the payment.
L was concerned that the companys bank account may have been compromised. As she 
was due to go on a holiday, she decided to transfer the funds out of the account to another 
account the company had with a different bank. She thought that way she could keep the 
money safe whilst she engaged with ClearBank to sort this issue out.  She proceeded to 
transfer out almost all of the money in the account. But unfortunately, she inadvertently 
transferred the funds to the newly set up account of the scammer instead of Ps genuine 
account with the other bank. 
After she made the transfer, L contacted ClearBank and informed them of the attempted 
scam and told them that she had transferred the money to another Ps account. 
The error came to light after L returned from the holiday. She immediately reported the error 
to ClearBank who in turn contacted the recipients bank. Unfortunately, the money had been 
withdrawn from the recipients account by that time.  
L complained to ClearBank as she was unhappy with the support provided by it. She also 
thought that her payment instruction to transfer the money to another of Ps account was 
somehow intercepted and the money went to the scammers account instead. ClearBank did 
not agree that it made any error.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. In 
summary they were of the view that ClearBank missed a couple of opportunities to help 
prevent the money being transferred to the scammers account. So, the investigator 
recommended that ClearBank reimburse P the sum lost. ClearBank did not agree. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint, which forms part of this decision. I 
said: 
I agree with the investigator that the complaint should be upheld for the reasons they have 
set out in detail  subject to an amendment to the compensation which I explain below.
I agree that the disputed transaction was unusual to the normal account activity. It was far 
higher than typical level of faster payments which tended to be around £3,000 to £4,000. 
ClearBank has pointed us to a payment of about £11,000 two weeks earlier. However, that 
appears to be a card payment not a faster payment (so a different mode of payment). In 
relation to faster payments, the next highest payment on the account during the preceding 
year was about £8,500 but that appears to be to the other account of P (which was an 
existing payee).
It was also the case that the disputed payment reduced almost all of the balance on the 
account. It isnt necessary for 100% of the funds to be transferred out in order to pose a 
concern to ClearBank to intervene. I consider this was a large enough movement. 
ClearBank has referred to a previous occasion that occurred several months ago when, it 
says, the balance was fully drained, but the transaction wasnt fraudulent. However, 
ClearBank couldnt have known this for certain when the disputed transaction took place.
ClearBank has also explained that its transaction monitoring system is fully automated. It is 
based on complex machine learning and takes a lot of factors into consideration when 
deciding if a payment should be stopped. But there was no concern on this occasion.
Ultimately, it is a matter for ClearBank as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection 
systems and strike a balance between allowing its customers to transact business and 
questioning transactions to confirm they are legitimate. But where it is alleged that it didnt 
do enough to prevent a loss which resulted from an authorised push payment fraud, I will 
look into the circumstances of the case and based on what I have seen, decide whether in 
that case ClearBank could have fairly and reasonably done more.
In this instance, I consider that the payment was unusual and so it is reasonable to expect 
ClearBank to have intervened and communicated with P to ensure that the payment was 
authorised by them, and that the money was being sent to where it was intended. And for 
the reasons explained by the investigator, I agree that had ClearBank done so, it was more 
likely that the error made by L would have come to light and the payment to the scammer 
could have been prevented. I also agree with the investigator that ClearBank had another 
chance to try and prevent the loss to P when L contacted it to report the loss. Here again, 
with proper engagement it was more likely that the error would have come to light.
ClearBank agrees that it could have done more but considers that would not have changed 
the outcome. In particular ClearBank says that even if the error had come to light and it 
contacted the recipient bank immediately there was no guarantee that they would have 
taken swift action. It has given us an example of what had happened in a different case to 
make its point. Firstly, it cannot be said with certainty that is what would have happened 
here. Secondly, had ClearBank contacted the recipient bank, but that bank did not take adequate steps to help prevent the loss to P, the company would have been able to 
complain to that bank about their inactivity. 
On balance, I dont think it could be said that there still would have been no change in the 
outcome had ClearBank contacted the recipient bank promptly. ClearBank has referred to 
the Confirmation of Payee message that was presented when L set up the new payee. I 
dont think that is a key consideration here. As the investigator has pointed out, L did not 
ultimately proceed with the payment at the time she set up the new payee and received the 
CoP message. It was only later that she made the payment, inadvertently, to the 
scammers account.
Overall, I agree with the investigator that the complaint should be upheld. However, I 
accept ClearBanks contention that P should bear some responsibility for transferring the 
funds to the wrong account. L was in effect transferring practically all the money in the 
account. And it was a considerable sum. So, it is reasonable to expect that she took care 
to ensure that the money was being transferred to the right account.
Generally, the starting position in cases where both parties could have done more to 
prevent the loss is that it is shared equally. However, I consider that there are some 
mitigating circumstances here in favour of P.
When the scammer called L and tried to persuade her to transfer the money, she ultimately 
didnt fall for the scam. She became suspicious and disconnected the call, which was the 
correct action to take. She did not make the payment. 
I see from the submissions that she was still worried that somehow the fraudster had 
gained access to the account. So, she decided to act swiftly to move the money to Ps 
genuine account with another bank where she thought the money would be safe. She then 
alerted ClearBank to the scam. I consider through all of this she demonstrated reasonable 
efforts to protect the funds. It was only when transferring the money, unfortunately she 
made an error.
In cases like this how the apportionment of the losses should be made is not an exact 
science. I think the error or omission by ClearBank was more significant compared to Ls 
inadvertent error. So, after weighing up everything, I think it is fair that 80% of the loss is 
borne by ClearBank and 20% by P.
This means ClearBank should reimburse P 80% of the money that was transferred to the 
scammer (which I understand was £16,500) less any sum subsequently recovered. It 
should also pay simple interest at 8% p.a. on this amount. Interest should be paid from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Responses to my provisional decision
P accepted my provisional decision, but ClearBank didnt. It said, in summary:
It is true that ClearBank did have an opportunity and cause to step in and review the 
situation further. However, it is worth noting that when L reported to ClearBank that she had 
received the call, she explicitly told ClearBank that she had transferred her funds out to an 
external account of P specifically to safeguard it. There was no prompting on ClearBanks 
part to review those payments, though it is regrettable that the agents assisting L did not 
take the initiative to look into the matter directly. However, this does not constitute an increased liability on ClearBanks part, though it largely 
agrees with the rest of the findings. The payment should have been stopped given it was 
unusual for previous use of the account. 
It remains that the payment was made in error even though L intended to do the right thing 
to protect the funds in this case. As such, ClearBank would agree to sharing liability for the 
payment and reimburse P 50% of the loss incurred, together with interest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. I remain of the view that the settlement set out in my provisional decision 
represents a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
ClearBank accepts that it ought to have intervened when the payment was made. It has also 
accepted that later when L contacted it, its agent could have looked into what was going on 
more closely. I remain of the view that had such interventions occurred, with adequate 
questioning as explained by the investigator, Ls error could have been identified. Either the 
payment could have been prevented in the first instance or later the error could have been 
identified. And then had ClearBank contacted the recipient bank swiftly, the money could 
have been retrieved. 
As in my view ClearBank failed to help prevent the loss to its customer P, the starting point is 
that it should reimburse the loss in full to P. However, I have also taken into account whether 
L (acting on behalf of P) contributed to the loss being incurred. In my view that was the case 
here because L transferred the money to the scammers account, albeit in error. So, I 
understand ClearBanks argument that the loss should be shared equally by both parties. 
However, it is also fair and reasonable to take into account any mitigating circumstances in 
deciding the extent of loss that should be borne by P for any negligence on its part. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, despite a persuasive call from the scammer, L did 
not fall victim to the scam. However, she was worried and distressed that a scammer had 
access to Ps account. She was going on a holiday soon and so she had to act swiftly to do 
what she could to protect the money. Unfortunately, in doing so she chose by mistake the 
account the scammer had asked her to set up. That account had the same name as the 
other account to which she wanted to transfer the money. As I said she was in distress at the 
time and so I can see how the error was made inadvertently. She then took the correct step 
to alert ClearBank to the scam. So, given that she acted correctly all along but for that 
unfortunate error, it doesnt seem fair that P should share 50% of the loss compared to the 
situation where ClearBank missed two separate occasions to help prevent the loss to its 
customer.
As I said in my provisional decision, in cases like this how the apportionment of the losses 
should be made is not an exact science. In this instance, for the reasons given, I remain of 
the view that it is fair P bears 20% of the loss and the balance borne by ClearBank.My final decision
My final decision is that the complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of the 
complaint ClearBank Limited should reimburse P 80% of the money that was transferred to 
the scammer less any sum subsequently recovered. It should also pay simple interest at 8% 
p.a. on this amount. Interest should be paid from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman