DRN-2918863
The complaint
Ms B complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined a claim under her 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms B made a claim under her policy for the legal costs of pursuing an action in the 
employment tribunal for discrimination. UKI has declined the claim as it says the claim arose 
prior to the start of the legal expenses policy. It also says Ms Bs late notification of the claim 
has prejudiced its position. 
Ms B wasnt happy with UKIs rejection of the claim. So she raised a complaint on the 
following basis: 
UKI has misinterpreted background information as being the start of the employment 
dispute. And as the policy doesnt cover internal grievances procedures, she doesnt 
think UKI can fairly say the dispute started until after these were exhausted.
She didnt delay in notifying UKI of her claim. She says she contacted UKI in 2019 
and was told she needed to seek representation through her union, which she did. 
And after her union membership expired in 2021, she returned to UKI for cover under 
the policy.
UKI used an incorrect email address when corresponding with Ms B, breaching 
GDPR. She doesnt believe this incident has been reported to the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO).
The legal helpline failed to call Ms B on the day they said they would. 
UKI took three weeks to make a decision on the claim.
UKI maintained its decision to decline the claim. But it acknowledged that the legal helpline 
didnt call Ms B on the agreed date, and an email was sent to the incorrect address. So it 
offered £100 compensation by way of an apology, which it has sent to her as a cheque. 
Ms B wasnt happy with this outcome, so she brought her complaint to our service. But our 
investigator didnt uphold it. She was satisfied that UKI had declined the claim in line with the 
policys terms and conditions. And she thought the offer of compensation for the customer 
service-related issues was fair. So she didnt think UKI needed to do anything more. 
As Ms B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Ms B has raised a number of points regarding her complaint. I want to assure her that Ive 
read and considered everything shes sent us. But I dont intend to respond to every point 
individually, or possibly in the level of detail she would like. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, 
but it simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
Date of incident
Ms Bs policy will cover the legal costs of pursuing an employment dispute provided that the 
claim satisfies the terms and conditions. The relevant term here is that the date of incident 
occurs during a period cover was in force. 
The policy defines the date of incident as the date of the incident that leads to a claim. If 
more than one incident arises at different times from the same cause, the date of incident is 
the date of the first of these incidents.
Ms Bs claim is for discrimination. And UKI has identified the first incident of discrimination 
referred to within Ms Bs legal claim was in April 2016. As Ms B took her policy out in 
November 2016, UKI declined the claim as the date of the incident that leads to a claim took 
place prior to cover being in force. 
I understand Ms B says this incident was referred to as background information only. But 
having read in full her grievance, timeline of events and ET1, I dont agree. Its clear the 
incident in April 2016 was significant and forms the basis of her allegations of discrimination 
as this is when the failure to make reasonable adjustments first occurred. In addition, it led to 
a personal injury and further referrals to occupational health. So I dont agree that its only 
background information. 
I appreciate Ms B says that in 2016 she had no way of knowing the events would result in an 
employment tribunal action. But she was aware there was a dispute. And in any event the 
policy is clear that the incident date will be the first of the series of incidents that leads to a 
claim. It isnt the date on which Ms B realises she has a claim to make. 
Ms B says that as the policy doesnt cover any internal grievance procedure, she believes 
her claim didnt arise until after this process had been exhausted  which wasnt until 
October 2018. But as Ive explained, the policy requirement is that the incidents giving rise to 
the claim must occur within the policy period, not when the claim itself arose.
Late notification
As Ive explained above, the claim has been declined due to the incident date. Regardless of 
whether Ms B notified UKI of her claim in a reasonable amount of time, Im satisfied the 
claim has been declined correctly on the policy terms related to the incident date. So I dont 
need to make a finding on whether the claim was notified in time. 
Customer service
From the information provided, I can see that it was just over two weeks from the date UKI 
received the claim form to the date it advised Ms B over the phone that her claim was 
declined. During those two weeks, UKI was in contact with Ms B to acknowledge receipt of 
the claim and to request more information. I dont consider this amount of time to assess a 
claim to be unreasonable and Ive seen no evidence of any delays.
Following the call with UKI, Ms B asked for the claims decision to be sent to her in writing. 
UKI emailed this over but Ms B didnt receive anything. It later transpired that UKI had 
recorded Ms Bs email address incorrectly. Ms B is unhappy that her data has been shared 
with a third party.Ms B is also unhappy that she didnt receive a call from the legal helpline on the date 
agreed. UKI acknowledge this didnt happen and have apologised. The legal helpline has 
explained to UKI that it was short staffed and the call back request was missed. 
Whilst I dont accept there has been any delays, I agree there has been some failings in the 
customer service provided by UKI in relation to the email and call back. And based on what 
Ive seen, I think the compensation UKI has offered of £100 is fair in the circumstances. This 
is because whilst I appreciate it wouldve been upsetting for Ms B, I think the overall impact 
this has had was short-lived. I cant see that it caused any financial loss nor has it impacted 
her claim in any way. As UKI has sent a cheque, Im not recommending it does anything 
more.
I know Ms B is concerned that UKI hasnt reported the data breach to the ICO. UKIs notes 
indicate that it has recorded the breach. But if Ms B is concerned, she should contact the 
ICO directly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman