DRN-3950420
The complaint
Mr H complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have unfairly declined his 
buildings insurance claim.
All references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H provided detailed submissions to support his complaint, and I want to assure him Ive 
read and considered everything hes said carefully. However, my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy to Mr H. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr H, and by 
RSA, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute storm conditions were present on the date of the damage in 
February 2022.  
Weather reports recorded wind speeds of up to 62 mph, which could cause the 
damage reported. So, Ive gone on to consider whether Im persuaded the storm was 
the main, or dominant, cause of the damage.
RSA provided photos in its report of the damage and of other parts of the ceiling. 
RSA have described other parts of the ceiling as having cracking. Mr H disputes this 
and has explained it is wrinkling in the paper. He disputes wear and tear being the 
cause or the ceiling being in poor condition he is of the opinion the storm is the main 
cause of the damage.  
Having looked at the photos of the damage in question, along with the photographs 
Mr H has provided of the ceiling, Im more persuaded from observation that it is 
cracking. I do acknowledge Mr H has provided a compelling explanation of what 
happened and while I dont dispute the damage presented itself during the storm in 
the way he described, I think its likely had the ceiling been in good condition, the 
damage wouldnt have occurred  and therefore the storm has merely served to 
highlight an existing issue.
Ive considered Mr Hs submissions regarding ceiling types similar to his and their 
general performance, however these comments are generalised in response to direct 
questions Mr H put to various parties. Theyre not specific to Mr Hs ceiling or based 
on observations of it.  One submission indicates the type of ceiling begins to 
strengthen at the approximate age the ceiling has reached, however there is no 
specific evidence from actual observations of the ceiling that supports this is the case 
here. So, Im not persuaded by this.
In conclusion, I dont think RSA have acted unfairly in declining Mr Hs claim. I think it 
is more likely than not, the storm served to highlight existing issues with the ceiling.  
So, for the reasons Ive set out I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman