DRN-4126500
The complaint
Ms F complains that HUB Financial Solutions Limited (HUB) took too long arranging the 
transfer of her occupational defined benefit (DB) pension scheme. She went on to say that 
because of their delays, her transfer value decreased significantly.
Ms F wants HUB to compensate her for the difference between the original and later transfer 
value she was subsequently offered.
What happened
In February 2022, Ms F had a telephone meeting with a representative from HUB. The 
purpose of the conversation was to discuss, at a high level what options she had with her 
occupational pension DB scheme. During that discussion, an agreement was made to 
explore Ms Fs options further and progress to another appointment. HUB contacted the 
scheme administrator for additional information about Ms Fs pension the same day and later 
booked an abridged advice appointment for 15 March 2022. Having completed the abridged 
advice meeting, the HUB representative determined that it would be appropriate to proceed 
to full pension transfer advice and arranged a further follow-up meeting with Ms F on 28 
March 2022. 
At the meeting on 28 March 2022, the HUB representative concluded it was appropriate to 
transfer Ms Fs pension and set about preparing a suitability letter with the supporting 
information to send to her. Unfortunately, the guaranteed transfer value that was provided by 
the scheme administrator expired on 31 March 2022 before the transfer could be enacted.
After receiving an updated transfer value from the scheme administrator, Ms F was 
dissapointed to see it had decreased in value by £33,000. Ms F decided to still proceed with 
the lower transfer value and moved her DB scheme to a new personal pension. Shortly 
afterwards, Ms F decided to formally complain to HUB. She said she was unhappy that HUB 
had delayed transferring her pension. She also said, in summary, that had they acted more 
promptly in their undertakings, she believed the transfer could have been completed before 
the guaranteed transfer value had expired. She asked HUB to recompense her for the 
£33,000 she believed shed missed out on because of their delays.
After reviewing Ms Fs concerns, HUB declined her complaint. In summary, they said that 
having looked at the chain of events that took place, they were satisifed theyd acted in a 
timely manner. They also pointed out that at the start of their discussions, they highlighted to 
Ms F there was no certainty theyd be able to move her pension before the guaranteed date 
on her transfer paperwork expired.
Ms F was unhappy with HUBs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. In 
summary, she repeated the same concerns shed set out to HUB  that she was unhappy 
about the length of time it took HUB to sort out the transfer and the fact that their delays, in 
her opinion, had resulted in a loss to her.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that HUB 
hadnt treated Ms F unfairly. He said that having looked at the timeline of events that took 
place, he could only identify around four days where HUB hadnt acted in a timely manner. 
He felt that had it not been for those delays, the transfer still couldnt have been undertaken 
in time to stop the guarantee date expiring. 
Ms F, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, she said that there 
were inconsistencies with HUBs timeline. Specifically, Ms F said:
The 17 March 2022 letter explaining she should move from abridged to full advice wasnt 
received until 24 March 2022. Ms F believes it was only sent to her after she called 
HUBs helpdesk on 22 and 23 March 2022. In addition, she pointed to HUBs complaint 
resolution letter of 27 October 2022 that explained the file was sent for peer review on 16 
March 2022. That meant, she feels, that the letter was actually ready to be sent on 17 
March 2022.
Ms F also said that HUB was aware of how urgent the need to process the transfer had 
become on 28 March 2022 when they spoke to an adviser there. She says HUB knew at 
that stage how pressing the deadline was because theyd already been told by the 
pension administrator that they wouldnt be able to extend the deadline. She felt this was 
particularly pertinent given HUBs close working relationship with the scheme 
administrator (who pay a portion of HUBs fees).
Given HUB only needed to sign a certificate recommending the transfer, Ms F felt the 
original transfer value could have been locked in earlier.
Ms F stated that HUBs initial mistake in requesting the incorrect pension details from the 
pension administrator, along with the delay in issuing the welcome pack to her, 
contributed to the delays.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe Ms F had 
presented any new arguments hed not already considered or responded to. So, Ms F then 
asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than Ms F has done and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this; our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Whilst I fully understand the strength of feeling Ms F has about the issue, Im not upholding 
her complaint and its for broadly the same reasons as our Investigator. I appreciate thats 
probably not the news Ms F was hoping for, but Ill explain why below.
I can understand Ms Fs frustration that the transfer of her pension didnt proceed as quickly 
as she felt it should have. I can also well appreciate her concern at seeing the second transfer value that she was offered decrease. In complex transfers such as that of a DB 
scheme, there are several parties that need to be involved in the process, not just externally 
to HUB but also within HUB itself. But its important for me to say, this decision focuses 
solely on the actions of HUB whom this complaint is against. 
Ms Fs pension promised to pay her a guaranteed income for life at scheme retirement age. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) takes the view that in most instances, 
because of that guarantee, its normally in the consumers best interests to leave these types 
of pensions where they are, not least because of the other valuable benefits they also 
provide. 
Given the consequences of inappropriate advice, the FCA has placed a significant focus on 
this area of the financial planning market. As such, it expects firms that provide advice on 
such transfers to undertake detailed analysis prior to making any recommendation to move 
away from a DB scheme. So to be clear, these types of transfer are never simple and take 
far longer than ordinary money purchase to money purchase pension switches. 
The first step in the transfer process is obtaining a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
from the scheme administrator. The CETV document sets out a range of important 
information for the member. It explains in detail the benefits the scheme provides and what 
the trustees would be willing to pay Ms F to transfer those benefits elsewhere, thereby giving 
up the right to a future pension income in the scheme. The lump sum offered in the CETV is 
only valid for 90 days though. Thats because in reaching that figure, the trustees have had 
to use a number of assumptions about, amongst other things, interest rates, investment 
returns, scheme liabilities and longevity which all have a bearing on the lump sum offered. 
And, all those factors regularly change, so the lump sums tabled by trustees alter to reflect 
that.
Ms F obtained a CETV from the scheme administrator in January 2022. When she first 
approached HUB for advice on 17 February 2022, the CETV was already a month and a half 
old. That only gave HUB 31 working days (or six weeks) to undertake their assessment, 
conduct the necessary research and appointments, make their recommendations and 
complete the transfer paperwork otherwise the transfer value would expire and a new one 
would be needed. So, that meant HUB only had 50% of the usual time other businesses are 
provided to undertake that work. And, it seems to me, thats at the heart of the problem.
From what Ive seen, HUB tried to manage Ms Fs expectations about the length of time 
such transfers take right at the beginning of their interactions with her. In their February 2022 
call, HUB explained that facilitating her transfer with six weeks, its doable but it could be 
very tight. So I obviously cant guarantee that we would get through. HUBs representative 
again repeated that completing everything by 31 March 2022 wasnt guaranteed. I also think 
Ms F understood that it would be challenging because it was her who asked whether 
completing everything by 31 March 2022 would be an issue. From their discussions, it 
appears clear to me that Ms F understood that if the deadline wasnt met, theyd need to 
request a new transfer value and importantly, that value could be different than the current 
transfer offer. So, its my view that Ms F went into her transfer journey with HUB in a clearly 
informed position that there were no certainties that the advice could be finalised by 31 
March 2022 and also, what the implications were if theyd not managed to get everything 
transacted by that point.
So, having informed Ms F of the risks of exceeding the 31 March 2022 deadline, Ive 
considered the actions of HUB during those six weeks. Im not planning on repeating the 
timeline in my decision because its well known to all parties  HUB have covered it in their 
complaint resolution letter, Ms F has provided a detailed breakdown, as has the scheme administrator and our Investigator also set out the main dates. So, I have focused on the key 
events that I think are relevant.
Having undertaken an initial call with Ms F on 17 February 2022, HUB wrote to the scheme 
administrator the same day seeking further information about her pension. The scheme 
administrator returned that request on 28 February 2022 as HUB had omitted some 
information. HUB responded to the scheme administrator two days later. A further two days 
passed when HUB received the information they requested (4 March 2022), so a total of four 
working days were lost by HUBs error which theyve already conceded was the case. The 
next working day, HUB say that they issued their welcome pack. An abridged advice 
appointment was then booked with Ms F for the following week after shed completed HUBs 
online fact-find on 10 March 2022.
An abridged advice process is important as it allows firms the opportunity to explore, at a 
high level, whether transferring the DB scheme should be considered further before the 
consumer starts incurring large costs. The outcome of that meeting (on 15 March 2022) 
determined it would be appropriate for Ms F to receive full advice. A letter confirming that 
was issued to Ms F on 23 March 2022. Ms F felt that there was an unnecessary delay at that 
point. However, HUB explained that despite their abridged advice letter being dated 17 
March 2022, it was only sent on 23 March 2022  thats because it had to be sent for 
checking before being issued. Given the move from abridged to full advice is a pivotal point 
in the advice process, I dont think its unreasonable for HUB to want to ensure theyre 
satisfied its the right path for the consumer to take, particularly given the increased costs 
that would follow for Ms F. 
The following week, Ms F had an appointment on 28 March 2022 to receive full advice. And 
at that meeting, HUBs representative determined that it was in Ms Fs best interests to 
transfer her DB scheme. The transfer guarantee expired 3 days later and so there wasnt 
enough time between the full advice appointment and the guaranteed deadline to prepare, 
issue and complete all of the supporting paperwork. 
Ms F said that given HUB only needed to sign a certificate recommending the transfer, she 
felt the guaranteed value could have been locked in before the deadline. However, its not as 
simple as that. Before HUB could complete the respective transfer paperwork, it needed to 
have issued the suitability report to Ms F beforehand. That wouldve allowed her the 
opportunity to read and reflect upon the risks of the transaction she was undertaking. So, 
HUB could only sign the certificate after Ms F was in receipt of the suitability letter. Had HUB 
signed the transfer certificate and submitted it to the scheme administrator before theyd 
issued the suitability letter to Ms F, HUB wouldve been in breach of the regulators rules.
The Regulator set out their expectations of businesses on the timing of suitability letters in 
their publication FG21/3 Advising on Pension Transfers. Whilst Ms Fs transfer value 
expired on 31 March 2022, HUB wouldve needed to have sent the suitability report to Ms F 
prior to that date, to read before making a commitment to proceed. Given the volume of 
information the suitability report contains, that window wouldve also allowed HUB to satisfy 
themselves Ms F understood the risks she was entering into and also given them sufficient 
time to complete and submit the application forms to the DB administrator. And, in this 
instance, there wasnt enough time to do that before the guarantee expired, which I dont 
believe is the fault of HUB.
After completing the full advice meeting on 28 March 2022, HUB have said that the suitability 
report was sent to their compliance team the following week for review and approval. Having 
received the suitability report on 6 April 2022, HUBs compliance team signed it off some 
four working days later. When I consider the amount of work involved in preparing a DB 
transfer suitability report, together with the associated supporting documents and the necessary compliance oversight checks, I dont believe those timescales are unreasonable 
in this instance.
So, whilst there may have been a small number of days (four) that HUB could have shaved 
off the total time they took to reach the final stage of the process, I dont think it would have 
resulted in them concluding the transfer before the 31 March 2022 deadline date.
I appreciate from the comments Ms F has made to this service, that she feels HUB couldve 
done more to push the transfer through before the deadline. However, as Ive already 
explained, the regulator places significant scrutiny on transfers of this nature. They expect 
firms to conduct such transfers in a tightly controlled and measured manner. That means 
they expect HUB to have in place a number of checks and balances along the way and to 
make sure that the consumer has all of the necessary information beforehand so they 
receive a fair outcome. And, as Ive already explained, that process consequently takes 
more time than a normal pension switch because of the analysis and different parties 
involved. And, its important to acknowledge its even more challenging when the advice firm 
is only provided with around half the normal time. 
Whilst I appreciate Ms F is disappointed that the transfer value decreased, its also the case 
that once the scheme administrator had re-run the calculation, conversely, it couldve also 
gone up in value. It doesnt necessarily follow that transfer values will always go down. I also 
think Ms F understood this because in her call with HUB in February 2022, she stated 
fingers crossed the transfer value wouldnt have changed much anywayhopefully it might 
have gone up. And, previous cases submitted to this service have shown that to be the 
case. So, just because HUB couldnt get the transfer value extended, neither they or Ms F 
would have known for certain whether the updated transfer value would increase or 
decrease. 
I know Ms F thinks HUB shouldve done things differently. But, I can only make an award if 
Im satisfied that HUB didnt act as they should have done.
Setting aside the four days Ive already highlighted, I dont think there were any unnecessary 
delays on HUBs part throughout the process. I dont agree that Ms F was treated unfairly 
and, in my opinion, HUB managed Ms Fs expectations. I dont think that HUB is responsible 
for the reduction in the transfer value or any investment loss because the transfer value 
wasnt available to be invested by 31 March 2022.
So in summary, having carefully considered the respective timeline and chain of events that 
took place, Ive seen nothing to persuade me that HUB didnt act in a reasonable and timely 
manner when advising Ms F. As such, Im not upholding Ms Fs complaint and I wont be 
instructing HUB to take any action.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint and will not be asking HUB Financial Solutions Limited to take 
any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 Simon Fox
Ombudsman