DRN-3881485
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how Ikano Bank AB (publ) has engaged with the reporting of his Ikano 
fixed sum loan agreement to one of the Credit Reference Agencies (CRA), Company T. 
What happened
In September 2019 Mr A took out a fixed sum loan agreement for £3,647 over a 48 month 
term, with monthly payments of £75.98. The total cost of the borrowing was £3,647 as there 
was no charge for the credit. 
Some months later Mr A checked his credit standing through a website which uses 
Company T for the information they report. On doing so, Mr A discovered his loan with Ikano 
was not reporting the starting loan balance, so it appeared as if the balance was not 
reducing despite him making regular payments required under the terms of the agreement. 
Mr A raised complaints with Company T and the website provider, and later raised this 
complaint with Ikano on the understanding that Ikano gives the information about his loan to 
Company T. 
Ikano issued their final response to Mr A on 15 December 2021. In summary, they said they 
hadnt done anything wrong as they were not required to report the original loan amount 
borrowed to any of the CRAs, and as Mr As balance was decreasing monthly and there 
were no late payments reported, this showed that Mr As loan was being repaid in line with 
the agreement. 
Our Investigator upheld Mr As complaint. They said Mr A had made multiple requests to 
Ikano and Company T to correct his data, but nothing was sorted out. The Investigator said 
there had been an impact on Mr A because of this, so Ikano should pay Mr A £150 to reflect 
this. 
Ikano disputed the impact as they could not see there had been any detriment to Mr A. But 
the Investigator explained the way information was being reported on Mr As credit file 
suggested he still owed 100% of his borrowing despite making payments towards the loan 
since 2019. The Investigator maintained the inaccurate information had upset Mr A and was 
causing an inconvenience to sort out, so they maintained £150 was fair to recognise this. 
Ikano continued to disagree as they could see no detriment to Mr A, and so our Investigator 
shared with Ikano the information Mr A was disputing on his credit file. To summarise, the 
Investigator further explained that by not showing the original amount of borrowing correctly, 
it therefore wasnt accurately representing how much of the loan had been paid back. The 
Investigator acknowledged that potential creditors would have been able to see Mr As 
repayment history and potentially work out the original amount borrowed for his loan, but this 
wasnt something Mr A would have known, so it was reasonable for him to believe his 
information was being reported incorrectly. 
In response, Ikano said they had followed the Information Commissioners Offices (ICO) 
guidelines for reporting information and in support of this they provided a document of what 
they are required to report. Our Investigator noted the document Ikano had supplied did not 
relate to how information should be reported for Company Ts credit files (rather it was for a 
different CRA), and pointed out that it appeared Company Ts credit files included a data 
entry point for the starting balance of the account which on Mr As credit file was reporting 
as £0. The Investigator concluded that even though a credit limit entry wouldnt be 
applicable to this particular product, the starting balance was being wrongly reported, so 
they still felt it fair to uphold Mr As complaint. 
While Mr A accepted our Investigators findings, as a resolution could not be reached with 
Ikano, the case came to me to decide. 
Before issuing my findings I approached Ikano for further comments and evidence. I 
requested Ikano send supporting evidence for the information they are required to supply to 
Company T for accounts such as Mr As account, as well as what was actually submitted for 
Mr As account. 
I also noted that on 12 September 2020 Company T had approached Ikano for clarification 
around the credit limit and Ikano had responded to say the credit limit was being reported 
correctly as a loan was taken for £3,647 and the customer was making payments regularly 
and the balance was £2,963 as at 12 September 2020. 
I noted the information reporting on Company Ts screens referred to both a credit limit/ 
overdraft and a starting balance. I therefore asked Ikano to explain why they had 
responded to Company T on 12 September 2020 to say the credit limit was being reported 
correctly, when the credit limit/ overdraft appeared to have been completed as n/a and the 
starting balance was completed as £0. And I asked Ikano to share what information they 
were relying on to respond to Company Ts query that enabled them to say information 
about the account was being reported correctly at that time. 
Furthermore, I noted that as the original loan balance was not being reported, it was giving 
an impression at face value that the loan was not being repaid, leading to the percentage of 
overall debt that Mr A had repaid being reported incorrectly. And this had caused Mr A to 
worry that his credit file was not accurately reporting his financial standing. 
Lastly, I noted that from 18 October 2021 Ikano wouldve been aware Mr A was unhappy 
with how the amount he originally borrowed with them was being reported as the same 
amount as the current balance. And being mindful of Ikanos responsibility to treat customers 
fairly, and ensuring that reporting about the account was being done so accurately, I could 
not see that Ikano had stepped in to help Mr A sort out the problem as this would have been 
a reasonable and fair thing for Ikano to do. Because of this I let Ikano know that I was 
minded to agree with the Investigators conclusions that £150 was reasonable to settle this 
matter. 
Despite our Investigator chasing Ikano for a response to my comments and request for 
further evidence above, Ikano did not reply with any further submissions or evidence for me 
to consider by the deadline set. I have therefore completed my review based on the 
submissions and evidence that have been made available to me in this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I have decided that Mr As complaint should be upheld in so far as I think it 
wouldve been fair for Ikano to have done more to assist Mr A help remedy the problem with 
how his Ikano loan was being reported through Company T. 
Mr A should note this decision does not comment on anything to do with the concerns hes 
raised separately against Company T and the website provider. This decision is limited to 
Ikanos actions in this matter. Although I would note my understanding is the information 
should now have been corrected for Mr A. 
In my considerations I am mindful that Ikano have referred to their ICO obligations and that 
theyve said reporting the starting balance is not something that is required for this particular 
type of product. Having reviewed the document guide Ikano shared for reporting information 
to the other CRA  this does suggest that the original loan amount is not something needed. 
And the other CRAs screens appear to support that the starting balance is not reported. 
Not all creditors report to each of the three main CRAs, and how each CRA presents the 
information they are provided from creditors and public sources differs. And while I accept 
its possible Ikano may not have to provide the starting balance for this particular type of 
product, Company Ts credit file clearly has the ability to show this information for parties 
that use the data it holds. While I have asked Ikano for more detail about the guidance they 
have from Company T and their engagement with Company T for reporting information for 
this type of account, I have not been provided with anything to show that Ikano followed the 
processes they no doubt have in place with Company T. 
I understand Ikano will have obligations to the ICO, but they are also subject to the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules and guidance. This includes applying the FCAs principles 
which underpin firms general obligations. Principle 6 requires a firm to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
In this case Mr A raised a complaint with Ikano to explain he was unhappy with the 
information being recorded about his Ikano loan on his credit file. Ikanos notes from this 
time say: Customer advises [Company T] are mis-representing his data as every month the 
amount borrowed is the same as the current balance suggest the loan is not being paid off. 
(sic). This note is from 18 October 2021 on Ikanos systems. And as noted earlier, Ikanos 
response in December 2021 to Mr As complaint was to say they were not required to report 
the information Mr A was querying. 
However, as the data provider for Mr As loan and therefore in part responsible for the data 
being reported for Mr A on his credit file, I think it would have been fair and reasonable for 
Ikano to look into Mr As concerns to help try and resolve this issue and ensure his account 
was being reported accurately with Company T. I say this because having seen a 
screenshot from 29 April 2021, I do agree with Mr A there was inaccurate information about 
the loan - the outstanding balance on the account was showing the same sum as the 
borrowed amount, despite payments having been made. 
There has been nothing to suggest Mr A has been financially disadvantaged or refused 
credit because of whats happened, but it is clear Mr As financial standing is important to 
him, so I think this matter has caused him upset and more inconvenience than should have 
been necessary to sort this out. And so I think £150 in the circumstances of this complaint is 
fair to reflect this. 
Putting things right
Ikano Bank AB (publ) should pay Mr A £150.My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mr As complaint should be upheld and 
Ikano Bank AB (publ) should put things right as Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman