DRN-3330637
The complaint
Mrs C says NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs C applied for a credit card in September 2018. It was approved with a limit of £450 and 
she was given five subsequent credit limit increases by NewDay  in January 2019 to 
£1,700, in May 2019 to £3,700, in September 2020 to £4,700, in February 2021 to £6,200 
and in May 2021 to £7,950.
Mrs C says NewDay didnt complete affordability checks. Her credit score was poor and she 
shouldnt have been given this card, or the limit increases some of which were only a few 
months apart.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Cs complaint in part. He found NewDay wasnt initially wrong to 
have given the card with its £450 limit or to offer the first two limit increases, but all 
subsequent increases from September 2020 were irresponsible. He said there was evidence 
Mrs C was struggling financially and that it was unlikely Mrs C would be able to sustainably 
repay her borrowings.
NewDay disagreed, saying if Mrs C had repaid a large part of her balance in January 2020 
by borrowing, how had she also managed to clear a large portion of that new loan by 
February 2020. The data it has doesnt show other borrowing to fund this. As the September 
2020 increase only increased the minimum monthly repayment by £40 its checks were 
proportionate. And looking at Mrs Cs account today shows a significant reduction in balance 
and that Mrs C has paid more than a minimum monthly repayment each month. Similarly her 
credit file shows she has managed her accounts well and her financial position hasnt 
deteriorated so it is without merits to say NewDays limit increases led to financial difficulties.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules,
guidance and good industry practice - is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
NewDay is required to lend responsibly. It needed to conduct checks to make sure that the
credit facilities it was giving to Mrs C were affordable and sustainable. Such checks need to
be proportionate to things like the credit limits it offered Mrs C, how much she had to repay
(including interest and charges) each month, her borrowing history with it and what it knew
about her. But there is no set list of checks it had to do.
This means to reach my decision I need to consider if NewDay carried out proportionate
checks at the time of Mrs Cs card application and each limit increase; if so, did it make fair 
lending decisions based on the results of its checks; and if not, what better checks would 
most likely have shown. 
The card application
When Mrs C applied for the credit card NewDay asked about her employment and 
residential status and for details of her gross annual income. It carried out a credit check to 
understand her credit history and existing credit commitments. NewDay has shared the 
results of these checks.
They show that Mrs C declared an income of £36,000 and that she had £100 of debt. She 
had one active account, it was up-to-date and she had no history of defaults. I think these 
checks were proportionate at the start of the lending relationship and given the limit offered. 
So I think it was reasonable for NewDay to conclude the card and its repayments would be 
sustainably affordable for Mrs C. It follows I dont think NewDay was wrong to give Mrs C the 
card.
The credit limit increases
NewDay has provided the information it based its checks on prior to increasing Mrs Cs limit 
each time. This included how she was using and managing her account and data on her 
external borrowings from the credit reference agencies. Our investigator found that there 
was evidence Mrs C was having problems managing her money prior to the September 
2020 increase and so none of the subsequent increases should have been given. But that it 
was not wrong to give the first two credit limit increases in 2019. I think this is a fair 
conclusion based on Mrs Cs spending and payment behaviour and her external borrowings.
I think that by September 2020, when the credit limit increase was up to £4,700 - the third 
increase in two years and the limit had increased by over £4,000 during this time (over ten 
times the original amount lent), that NewDays checks were not proportionate. 
There dont appear to have been any updated checks on Mrs Cs income and personal 
circumstances. I understand NewDay has shown theyd considered how Mrs C had handled 
the account up to the point of the £4,700 increase. But given how much the limit was 
increasing by, I think it needed to do more to ensure Mrs C was going to be able to 
sustainably manage the increase. However I wont comment further on this as even based 
on the checks it carried out I dont think NewDay made a fair lending decision at this stage.
In the 12 months prior to the limit increase, Mrs Cs account balance steadily increased to 
close to the limit twice - Mrs C made a substantial payment to reduce it the first time in  
January 2020, but the balance then returned to close to the £3,700 limit. Mrs C incurred 
some late limit fees in the year leading up to the credit limit increase, suggesting she may be 
having difficulty managing the limit she had. And Mrs C had accrued external consumer 
credit debts totalling over £13,326  a significant increased from the £8,291 she had at the 
time of the previous limit increase, and a vast increase on the £100 she owed when she 
opened this account. It also knew it had advanced a loan to Mrs C in January 2020 when 
she repaid a large part of her balance, so it was aware she was already borrowing to repay  
not an indicator of sustainability.  
So I think NewDay, as a responsible lender, ought to have realised that there were signs that 
advancing more credit to Mrs C created a risk that she might not be able to sustainably 
repay her debt in a reasonable time frame. 
I have carefully considered the comments it submitted in response to the investigatorsassessment but for the reasons set out above they do not change my conclusion. NewDay 
argues there is no evidence that its lending caused financial difficulties, but that is not what I 
need to assess. There could be a number of reasons why an unfair lending decision does 
not cause consumer detriment, but would still be deemed irresponsible based on what was 
apparent at the time of the decision to lend. And I find this is the case here.  
As I have found NewDay was wrong to increase Mrs Cs credit limit in September 2020, and 
I have not seen evidence that the indicators of her financial health that it relied on when 
further increasing her limit improved, it follows I find it was wrong to give the subsequent 
increases in February and May 2021.
Putting things right
NewDay should:
rework Mrs Cs account to ensure that from September 2020 interest is only charged 
on the first £3,700 outstanding, all late payment and over limit fees should also be 
removed;
if an outstanding balance remains on Mrs Cs account once all adjustments have 
been made NewDay should contact Mrs C to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this;
if the effect of all adjustments results in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mrs C 
along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement; and
amend Mrs Cs credit file to remove all adverse information recorded from September 
2020 to date.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must give 
Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Cs complaint in part. NewDay Ltd must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman