DRN-3879846
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited, has rejected the claim they made 
under sections 75 and 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they says was misrepresented to them by the supplier, and their relationship 
with Shawbrook which they say was unfair on them.
Mr and Mrs S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In October 2014, Mr and Mrs S purchased a solar panel system (the system). Mr and 
Mrs S financed the purchase through fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook that was 
repayable over ten years.
In July 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Ss behalf under sections 75 and 140 of 
the Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true. And it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs S to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The feed-in tariff (FIT) payments would cover the monthly loan repayments. 
The CMC also said that this made Mr and Mrs Ss relationship with Shawbrook unfair on 
them, as well as a number of other issues around how the credit agreement was presented, 
and commission that was paid to the supplier.
Shawbrook issued a final response saying the section 75 claim had been made outside the 
time limits allowed, so it had no liability for that. And that its relationship with Mr and Mrs S 
wasnt unfair on them under section 140. 
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into what had happened. They did not think the complaint should be 
upheld.  
The CMC said that Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with this. Amongst other things, the CMC said 
that:
Mr and Mrs S relied on the verbal representations made by the sales representative 
and placed little reliance on the sales documents, which did not clearly show the 
system would not be self-funding over the loan term.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, 75 and 140 of the Act. Section 56 says that 
any negotiations between Mr and Mrs S and the supplier are deemed to have been 
conducted by the supplier as an agent of Shawbrook. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit, 
allowing them to claim against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach 
of contract by the supplier in the same way they could have claimed against the supplier. 
Section 140 gives the courts the power to consider if the relationship between a creditor and 
debtor is unfair on the debtor. When doing so the courts can consider how linked 
agreements were sold, such as an agreement to purchase solar panels using a point-of-sale 
loan. This means that if there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract, that could 
render the relationship between the creditor and debtor unfair on the debtor. 
The financial regulators rules and principles mean that when responding to Mr and Mrs Ss 
claim, Shawbrook should have treated them fairly. So, Ive considered whether it did. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss. 
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and quote/contract.
The quote/contract sets out key information about the system including the expected 
performance and financial benefits in year one. Im satisfied that it formed a central part of 
the sales process since it appears to have been completed and signed during the sales 
meeting. It seems likely that the figures on the quote/contract wouldve been discussed 
during the meeting. So, I think the quote/contract is relevant, alongside Mr and Mrs Ss 
recollection of the sale, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.Quote/contract
The quote/contract set out the basic price of the system (£5,860) alongside the expected 
first-year benefits of the system:
FIT generation £213.54
FIT export £35.44
Electricity saving £163.46
Estimated total first year benefit £412.44
I think the sales contract is clear that the system purchase price was £5,860. I think Mr and 
Mrs S wouldve understood that theyd pay more than this, because theyd signed the credit 
agreement. This showed the total amount payable if the loan ran to its full term would be 
£9,282.80, or £928.28 per year. 
I think it is also clear that the first-year benefit of the system was expected be £412.44, 
which included electricity savings. That this would not be enough to cover the monthly loan 
repayments of £74.94 shown on the credit agreement. Mr and Mrs S said they were told the 
FIT payments alone would cover the monthly loan repayment. 
But, given the information provided in the quote/contract, I think it is unlikely that the 
salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system in that way.
The CMC says the quote/contract does not make it clear that the system will not be self-
funding within the loan term. But that is not the misrepresentation that was alleged in Mr and 
Mrs Ss claim. So, I dont consider that to be important when making my decision. 
I am satisfied that the required information about the credit agreement was provided to Mr 
and Mrs S and that reasonable and proportionate checks were caried out by Shawbrook to 
ensure they could repay the loan in a sustainable way. I understand the loan has in fact 
been paid off early. 
Shawbrook paid a small amount of commission to the supplier in relation so Mr and Mrs Ss 
loan. But I dont think that is likely to have created an unfair relationship, given how little it 
was. And I dont think it would have made any difference to Mr and Mrs Ss decision to take 
out the loan if they had been aware of it at the time. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr 
and Mrs S to enter into the contract for the system. I have found no reason to conclude that 
the relationship between Shawbrook and Mr and Mrs S was unfair on them. So, I dont think 
Shawbrook treated them unfairly when it rejected their claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman