DRN-3615066
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt reimburse her after she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
In January 2021 Mrs Ms partner was contacted claiming to be from the fraud department of 
Barclays they said his money was at risk and he wouldnt be protected unless he moved it 
immediately. Mrs M also has an account with Barclays. Mrs M has said they were sceptical 
about the legitimacy of the call and asked the scammer to verify where they were calling 
from. The scammer gave them a mobile number they could call back on with a name and a 
password.
The next day the scammers called back and told Mrs M someone had tried to make a 
£9,000 car purchase from her own Barclays account and asked her to confirm if this was 
her. She said it wasnt, and this convinced her that her own account was also at risk.
The scammers told Mrs M to transfer her money to help them catch fraudsters within the 
bank. They told her she needed to keep the true purpose of the payments secret from 
anyone else at Barclays she spoke to whilst making the transfers and they must go to the 
accounts provided. She was told the money would be returned to her at the end of the week.
She initially tried to transfer £9,000 but this was stopped by Barclays as it was recognised as 
unusual. She contacted it to discuss why this had happened and was questioned about the 
payment. She told Barclays the money was for her nephew and convinced it the payment 
was genuine so it was released. 
Mrs M went on to attempt two additional payments for £9,000 and £4,000 to two new 
payees. Both were again blocked by Barclays so Mrs M went into branch to authorise them. 
She again provided cover stories for the payments and they were released.
Barclays reimbursed Mrs M for half of her loss. It felt it couldve done more to advise her of 
the risk of scams and done more to try and recall the funds once it was informed shed been 
the victim of fraud, but also felt she couldve done more to verify the payments before they 
were made.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this year. In summary I said that:
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) 
applied in this case which requires Barclays to refund Mrs M as a victim of fraud 
unless it could establish one of the relevant exceptions to reimbursement applied; 
either shed ignored effective warnings when making the payment, or she hadnt had 
a reasonable basis for believing the payment she was making were genuine.
I felt Barclays had overall provided an effective warning to Mrs M when she spoke to 
it over the phone about the first payment she was making. But I didnt think any 
warnings in relation to other payments given over the phone or online were effective 
as defined by the code.
The code allows consideration of whether or not any effective warnings mightve 
made a difference. Given that even following an effective warning Mrs M continued to 
make payments to the scammers, I didnt feel any subsequent, effective warnings 
likely wouldve prevented her from making the payments she did.
I didnt feel Mrs M had a reasonable basis for believing what she was told by 
scammers. They had no personal information that would lead her to believe they 
were calling from her bank, and originally called to speak to her partner. They also 
dont appear to have provided any assurances they were calling from her genuine 
bank other than providing a false password to use. The exact circumstances of the 
scam were comprehensively explained to Mrs M as a scam by genuine Barclays 
before she made the first payment and she hadnt been able to explain why she still 
didnt believe this applied to her. Although Mrs M said she was under a lot of 
pressure, the scam took place over three days and I thought she had time in 
amongst this to check what shed been told. It also wasnt clear why during this three 
day period she believed her money remained safe when she was initially told it was 
urgently at risk from corrupt bank staff.
Barclays didnt contact the beneficiarys banks as soon as it shouldve when the 
scam was reported to it  it contacted these banks three days later. Our service 
contacted the beneficiarys banks which overall confirmed most of the funds wouldve 
already been removed from the accounts by the time Barclays couldve acted. So its 
delays didnt prevent the successful return of the funds. 
However, £2,148.22 of Mrs Ms money could be recovered. This had been returned 
to Barclays on 12 March 2021 and it hadnt sent this back to Mrs M until June 2022. I 
felt Barclays needed to pay interest on this amount to cover the time it had kept the 
funds from Mrs M at the interest rate applicable to the account the funds came from 
(0.01%)
Overall, as Barclays had already reimbursed Mrs M £11,000 of her loss I felt it had 
already done more than I wouldve asked it to in this case. 
Mrs M responded to my provisional decision and explained she was under a huge amount of 
stress at the time the scam took place and wanted to reiterate the scammers were very 
convincing. Barclays responded and confirmed it accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs M has said, and I have considered everything 
again. But I havent reached a different conclusion to the one set out in my provisional 
decision which Ive summarised above. Whilst I do understand and accept Mrs M genuinely 
believed she was doing the right thing, my role here is to consider whether or not Barclays is in any way liable for this. For the reasons given it isnt. In terms of reimbursing her for the 
money she sent to scammers, its done more than I wouldve recommended. 
However, I consider the money it was able to recover from the beneficiarys bank separate, 
and this shouldve been returned to Mrs M sooner than it was. Barclays should pay Mrs M 
simple interest on £2,148.22 from 12 March 2021 to the date the money was returned to her 
at a rate of 0.01%.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs M the redress 
Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman