DRN-2320349
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complained that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out the PPI when they applied for a mortgage in June 1997. Lloyds and 
Mr and Mrs W agreed that the mortgage application took place during a meeting at a branch 
of the bank, but Mr and Mrs W said that PPI wasnt mentioned, and they werent aware it 
had been added. Lloyds said it had advised Mr and Mrs W to take out the PPI policy when 
they applied for the mortgage.
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr W at a monthly cost 
of £19.35. The monthly benefit was £326.57. If he had made a successful claim, the policy 
couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed, and asked that it be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds sent in copies of Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage application form and offer. It didnt have a 
copy of the policy terms and conditions from 1997, but it has provided a copy from the 
following year. Lloyds also sent in computer records to confirm that the mortgage and PPI 
started in September 1997 and ended in August 2000. 
Mr and Mrs W complained that they werent aware that PPI was added to their mortgage. 
The copy of Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage application is quite poor, and much of it is not legible. 
However, I can see that there is a section of the form relating to PPI, and as far as I can 
make out there are tick boxes to say yes or no to the PPI. There is a tick in the left-hand 
box, and below this there are two sections  one for each applicant  each containing what 
appears to be a list of eligibility questions for the policy. These questions also have yes or 
no tick boxes to record the answers. In each case the yes tick box is to the left of the no 
box. So I think its reasonable to take it that the tick is in the yes box for the policy. This is 
supported by the completion of the questions below, which also show that the cover should 
apply only to Mr W. There are no notes confirming why Mrs W wasnt covered  but the 
information on the mortgage application shows that Mr W was the main income earner, and 
was earning substantially more than Mrs W, so this doesnt seem unusual.
Turning to Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage offer, I can see that PPI is clearly shown as having 
been added  the offer confirms that cover applied to Mr W, and that the monthly cost would 
be £19.35.
From all this I consider it most likely that Mr and Mrs W were aware of the PPI and had a 
choice about taking it  and decided to do so. I think they probably just dont remember 
doing so as it was all so long ago. 
Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs W to take out the policy, so it shouldve made sure it was 
suitable for them. I think it was.
I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI - especially the things not covered. But I 
cant see that Mr W (as the insured) wouldve been affected by any of these. Its not clear 
how the cost of the PPI was explained to Mr and Mrs W at the point of the application, 
(although as Ive said, the cost was clearly shown on the mortgage offer), but I dont think 
theyd have agreed to take it without some idea of the cost. Ive no evidence to suggest the 
premium was unaffordable for them.
Mr and Mrs W said that Mr W wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his employer, but 
unsurprisingly  given the length of time since the sale  they couldnt be certain of the 
amount. They thought Mr Ws sick pay wouldve been six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay, and they said theyd had savings they couldve relied on (the amount they 
mentioned was equivalent to about two months salary based on whats on the mortgage 
application). Mr and Mrs W also said that family members wouldve helped out if needed  
however, their circumstances couldve changed so I dont think their help couldve been 
guaranteed. 
Taking all this into account, I think Mr and Mrs W couldve found it difficult to meet the 
mortgage payments once Mr Ws sick pay reduced or if hed lost his job. And I think Mr and 
Mrs W could reasonably have wanted to protect an important commitment that was secured 
on their home. Ive also kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months in 
the event of a successful claim, and in addition to Mr Ws sick pay, allowing Mr and Mrs W to 
use their savings for their everyday living expenses. 
On balance, although I cant know whether Lloyds clearly explained all of the policy details, I 
think Mr and Mrs W would still have bought the policy if it had. It couldve provided useful 
protection if Mr W couldnt work. This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman