DRN-2698619
The complaint
 Mr B complains about charges made by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) when he returned his hire vehicle. 
What happened
Mr B entered into a hire agreement for a new vehicle with MBFS in late 2017. The 
agreement ran for two years, and the vehicle was returned at the end of the agreement 
period. 
Collection agents BCA collected and inspected the car for MBFS on 29 November 2019. 
They completed an inspection with Mr B present, and he signed the paperwork before the 
car was taken by BCA, agreeing to an end of contract charge of £170 for damage to two 
alloy wheels. 
When he returned from an overseas trip in January 2020, Mr B found that MBFS had written 
to him on 19 December 2019 to say that the vehicle had been inspected a second time and 
the end of contract charge for damage was now £690. 
Mr B says he contested this with MBFS and didnt hear anything until debt collection agents 
chased him for the money. He complained to the collection agents, and his complaint was 
forwarded to MBFS to provide a final response. 
MBFS reviewed the damage charges and issued a final response to Mr B. They said that as 
the first inspection was completed in the dark and the rain, a second inspection had to be 
undertaken. They gave Mr B a link to the photos taken in the second inspection and said that 
they would remove the damage charge for the four alloy wheels as the photos didnt support 
the charge. MBFS felt the dent in the bonnet and the dent in the roof were evident in the 
photos, so the remaining charge for Mr B to pay for these was £350. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr B. He thought that the damage MBFS were asking Mr B to pay for was clear in 
the photos. He also thought that a second inspection wasnt unusual if the weather 
conditions were bad, and so he didnt think MBFS needed to do anything more. 
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint afresh. He doesnt think the 
additional charges are fair for a number of reasons. Mr B says the weather was fine at the 
time of the first inspection and, although it was 5pm and dark, the car was presented to the 
collection agents on a floodlit courtyard. Mr B says the first inspection was very thorough, 
lasting over an hour and a half, so any damage should have been seen then. 
Mr B said the first inspection agent didnt say anything about the possibility of a second 
inspection and told him that the car would be taken to auction the next day. Mr B notes that 
there were eight days between the two inspections, so he shouldnt be responsible for any 
damage that might have been caused in that time. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2021, I made the following 
provisional findings: 
Mr B signed a hire agreement in late 2017, the terms of which set out that the vehicle must 
be returned at the end of the agreement in line with the vehicle return standards. The 
agreement sets out the acceptable return standards, beyond which it allows MBFS to charge 
for the costs of either repairing and / or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle. 
Its clear from the agreement that Mr B was responsible for returning the car in good 
condition, but the question is whether all the charges applied by MBFS are fair and 
reasonable. 
Ive seen the report from the first inspection completed by the collection agents, BCA. This 
includes a recording of the result, which was that a second inspection was required. It 
records the weather as raining, and the lighting as dark. 
Ive seen the video attached to the report, and it is clear that both the vehicle and the ground 
around it are very wet. So, Im satisfied that it either was, or had recently been, raining at the 
time of the inspection. The video also shows that its very dark. I think that any damage 
would probably be easier to see in person than it is on the video, but I appreciate that 
scratches or dents might have been easy to miss under the conditions that the first 
inspection was conducted. 
I dont think it was unreasonable in the circumstances for BCA to have undertaken a second 
inspection once the vehicle was back at their compound, and in more optimal conditions. I 
also dont think its unreasonable for some damage to have been missed in the first 
inspection, due to the conditions at the time. 
Ive seen the report from the second inspection completed by BCA. This records the damage 
outside of fair wear and tear, and the charge to Mr B, as follows: 
Left hand front wheel Polished alloy damage £85
Left hand rear wheel Polished alloy damage £85
Right hand rear wheel Polished alloy damage £85
Right hand front wheel Polished alloy damage £85
Bonnet Dented. Over 2 less than 50mm £260
Left hand rear door Unsatisfactory repair - dirt in paint £16.50
Roof Dented. 50-100mm £90
Along with the vehicle return standards set out in the agreement, there are industry standard 
guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) which 
set out what is considered to be fair wear and tear in respect of a hired vehicle. So, I have 
also considered these in deciding what it is fair for MBFS to charge on return of the car.
In respect of alloy wheels, the hire agreement says that any scuff chip or scratch under 
25mm is acceptable. The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that scuffs up to 50mm 
on the total circumference of the alloy wheel is acceptable
MBFS have already told Mr B that they will remove the charges for the four damaged alloys 
as this is not clear in the photos. Im satisfied this is fair, the photos dont appear to show 
damage outside of the return standards or the BVRLA guidelines. 
In respect of paintwork and scratches, the hire agreement says that any light surface 
scratches not through the top coat which can be removed by polishing / touch up are 
acceptable. The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing, provided they can be polished out, are 
acceptable.
The BCA report says that the repair needed to the scratch is a machine polish. So, Im 
satisfied that this falls inside the fair wear and tear guidelines and shouldnt be charged to Mr 
B. 
In respect of dents, the hire agreement says that minor body dents are acceptable, provided 
they are less than 13mm in diameter and there are no more than one per panel or four per 
vehicle. The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that dents of 15mm or less in diameter 
are acceptable provided there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not 
broken. 
The BCA report notes there are more than two dents to the bonnet. I have reviewed the 
photos provided and there are only two photos of the bonnet, I cant see any dents in the 
first, and the second appears to focus on one dent only, but again its not clear in the photo 
and I cant determine the size of it. I dont think that MBFS have provided evidence of dents 
to the bonnet that are outside of the return standards, or the BVRLA guidance, so I dont 
think they can fairly charge Mr B for this. 
The BCA report also notes a dent to the roof. I have reviewed the photos provided and it is 
clear that there is a dent to the roof area of the vehicle which exceeds 15mm. So, Im 
satisfied that this is outside of the BVRLA guidelines and that MBFS can fairly charge for this 
damage. Im also satisfied that this dent may have been obscured by the dark and the rain in 
the first inspection, and thats why it wasnt identified sooner. 
MBFS havent responded to my provisional decision.
 
Mr B responded to my provisional decision. In summary he says that there was no damage 
to the roof of the vehicle, or any other panel, whilst it was in his possession, but he will pay 
the £90 charge in order to bring the complaint to a conclusion. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr B has said, and it doesnt change the provisional findings that I 
made. For reasons Ive explained I dont think carrying out a second inspection was 
unreasonable, and I can see how the dent to the roof may have been obscured in the 
conditions under which the first inspection took place. The photograph shows the damage is 
outside of the BVRLA guidelines and Im satisfied that MBFS can fairly charge for it. 
 
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I require Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance to remove all but the dent to the 
roof from the end of contract charges, leaving a bill of £90 that Mr B has to pay. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman