DRN-2792509
The complaint
Mr S complains that he couldnt set up a Standing Order from his account with National 
Westminster Bank Plc.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr S set up a Standing Order to make an annual payment from his 
NatWest joint account to a family member, starting on 27 December 2019.
He also wanted to make annual payments to the same family member for their birthday in 
July. But says NatWests software told him it wasnt possible to set up a new Standing Order 
at that time as the date of the first payment was more than six months away. 
Mr S says he waited before trying to set up the Standing Order again nearer the time, 
around the end of April 2020. But on this occasion NatWests system said that the payee 
details he had entered were incorrect. Mr S says he confirmed the details, including the 
name the recipient account was registered in, with his family - and they did match the 
information he had entered. He tried to set up the Standing Order again, but again received 
a warning message to say that the details were incorrect.
When Mr S complained to NatWest it apologised for the inconvenience caused but explained 
that each bank is now required to cross reference new payment details with those held by 
the recipient bank. It said that if a discrepancy is noted then the customer receives a warning 
message. But explained that this message was for guidance only, and Mr S could continue 
past it and finish setting up his Standing Order. 
Mr S wasnt happy with NatWests response, so he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt feel NatWest had done anything wrong. 
The investigator explained that the warning message displayed by NatWest was part of the 
Confirmation of Payee system that had been introduced across the UK banking sector. They 
didnt think this message had been shown in error. But said that Mr S could have completed 
his Standing Order request despite the warning.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators findings, so the case has been passed to me to review 
and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During this complaint Mr S has raised several points about the way NatWest operates. Hes 
also told us about other complaints hes made to NatWest. To be clear, I can only consider 
events specific to this complaint here. I wont be addressing any other matters in this 
decision. 
I can see Mr S feels very strongly about the events set out in the background above. So I 
know hell likely be disappointed, but I havent found that NatWest made an error or treated 
him unfairly here. And Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I think it would be helpful for me to clarify the role of this service. We are not here to 
punish a business. Nor do we have the authority to ask a business to make changes to its 
processes or procedures. That would fall under the remit of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority. 
Rather, our service looks at individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Where we find that a business has made a mistake or treated the consumer unfairly, wed 
expect it to put them back, in so far as is possible, in the position they would have been in if 
the mistake hadnt happened.  
Mr S already had an arrangement in place to make payments to this family member. So I 
can appreciate why hes so frustrated that he didnt find setting up a further regular payment 
to them to be as straightforward a process. 
Mr S has mentioned he feels he should have been able to add the second payment request 
to the first Standing Order hed set up. But Standing Orders do not have the flexibility to be 
used in this way. Rather they are a way of setting up a regular, fixed payment to a recipient  
to be taken at a certain frequency, and for a set amount of time. For example, to make a 
payment to recipient A on the 1st day of the month, every month, for 12 months. 
I also think its important to note that NatWest has legal and regulatory obligations it must 
meet when providing services to customers. Whilst Mr S is of course able to choose to make 
payments with his money - and who to make these payments to - NatWests payment 
systems do have to operate in such a way as to meet these obligations. 
As our investigator explained, the UKs largest banking groups, of which NatWest is part, 
were obliged by the Payment Systems Regulator to introduce something called Confirmation 
of Payee (CofP) checks in 2020. NatWest has told us it started to roll this out in March 2020 
 which was after Mr S had set up his first Standing Order, but before he tried to set up the 
second.
Under this system, when a consumer sets up a new payee, the name of the recipient will be 
checked against the sort code and account number. Consumers can see if the name theyve 
been given by the recipient either; matches, partially matches, or doesnt match banking 
records. The aim of this is to help make sure payments are sent to the correct account, and 
to reduce incidences of fraud and scams. 
Previously account names werent checked. So even though Mr S had made a payment to 
this family member before, this was the first time NatWests system had checked the payee 
name details he input. 
NatWest has provided us with evidence that shows CofP checks find that the name Mr S 
input does not match the name registered for the account number and sort code used. I can 
see Mr S doesnt believe this to be the case. But I think its highly unlikely NatWest could 
have made any error here, as its only looking up information held by the recipient bank.
NatWest has also explained that this doesnt necessarily mean that the account details Mr S 
provided dont belong to the intended recipient. For example, it could be that an account 
belonging to Joe Bloggs may be registered as Joe Bloggs Savings Account.  Where a discrepancy is identified, NatWest displays a warning message advising customers 
that theres a different name registered for this account number and sort code. And it tells 
them to contact the payee directly to confirm the account number and sort code are in fact 
correct before making a payment. But it doesnt prohibit customers from completing a 
payment if they are confident to proceed despite the warning. NatWest has explained that if 
he wished Mr S could have acknowledged the warning and clicked on the next button and 
gone on to complete his Standing Order request.
I appreciate Mr S is unhappy about what he sees as limitations to NatWests systems. And 
hes explained that it wasnt clear to him that he could have bypassed the warning message 
as described above. But Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Mr S could have 
completed his Standing Order request. And whilst Im sure NatWest considers feedback 
from its customers, Im not able to ask it to make changes to the way its systems operate, or 
how it presents information on its screens. 
Whilst I acknowledge that Mr S couldnt set up his Standing Order with the level of ease and 
convenience he may have expected, I do think that the benefits of the added protection 
afforded by NatWests CofP checks outweigh the slight inconvenience of the extra step he 
had to take to set up his new payment request.
I havent seen or heard anything to suggest Mr Ss experience trying to set up the second 
Standing Order was as a result of NatWest treating him differently to its other customers. 
And Im pleased to note that whilst it may not have been his preferred method of payment, it 
does appear Mr S was able to make an online payment to his family member around the 
time of their birthday. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint for the reasons Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman