DRN-3848749
The complaint
Between July 2021 and February 2022 Mr Ws Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) was 
transferred from Financial Administration Services Limited (trading as Fidelity) to Interactive 
Investor (II) and then back to Fidelity. He says both firms caused delays in the second 
transfer, back to Fidelity, and that the delays caused him a financial loss. He seeks 
compensation for that. This decision is only about Fidelity, the case against II is being 
addressed separately.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into both complaints. With regards to Fidelity, she concluded 
that it caused specific delays to the transfer process, but it had already conceded that and it 
had offered Mr W a total of £250 in compensation for the trouble caused to him. She viewed 
that as fair compensation and did not consider it should have to do any more. She also did 
not uphold Mr Ws claim for financial loss. 
The investigator summarised the background as follows  the first transfer, to II, was 
completed by 7 July 2021, Mr W then decided he preferred Fidelitys service so he asked II 
to cancel/reverse the transfer; the cancellation form he received from II on 22 July was 
completed and returned on the same day, on 11 August IIs administrator contacted Fidelity 
and enquired into returning the SIPPs funds, and on 25 August Fidelity replied to say a new 
online transfer request had to be submitted; Mr W submitted a new transfer form to II on 27 
September and Fidelity received the completed forms on 6 October; Fidelity returned them 
to II, then there was a delay because the latter said the former had not completed a 
particular section; Mr W chased II for progress, then another issue arose in November when 
Fidelity said the SIPPs account reference in the forms was wrong; Mr W disputed this, and 
by late November the in-specie transfer of the SIPP could begin; the first SIPP funds were 
transferred to Fidelity in December and the last was transferred in February (2022).
The investigator noted that Fidelity accepts it caused some delays between 17 August and 3 
September, between 20 September and 2 October (by not processing Mr Ws forms in a 
timely manner) and in December (by not chasing II in a timely manner). She referred to      
Mr Ws argument about exercising his right to cancel the first transfer within the permitted 30 
days, but she did not consider that the facts supported that and she referred to Fidelity 
having the right to refuse the transfer even if such cancellation had happened. She also was 
not persuaded that Mr Ws claim for financial loss had been established.
Mr W disagreed with this outcome and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He made 
comments that he considered necessary to clarify the sequence of events and his claim for 
financial loss. In the main, he said he was proactive in the matter at the outset; he had sent 
Fidelity a completed application form on 16 August [evidence of which he attached], before 
its response to II on 25 August; on 5 October, he returned to Fidelity the fully completed II 
transfer-out paperwork, but it did not fully process that until the end of November and 
thereby caused a delay of seven weeks; there is evidence that his first intended fund switch 
(within the SIPP) would not have taken place until 15 November, which was 17 weeks after 
he first contacted II, and which was more than enough time for an in-specie transfer; and 
there is evidence to support his claim for financial loss [which he set out in an attachment]. 
Mr W also said the offer of £250 for inconvenience might be fair in the case of a cash 
transfer, but not in his case where the delay caused a financial loss within the in-specie 
assets being transferred.
The matter was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions expressed by the investigator for 
broadly the same core reasons.
This decision is only about the case against Fidelity, but it is inevitable that some references 
will have to be made to II. Both firms were engaged in the same transfer process, and the 
nature of the complaint is such that some aspects of IIs role will be relevant to determining 
Fidelitys. However, I will keep this to the minimum required and, for the sake of clarity, no 
conclusions in this decision are intended or made with regards to the complaint against II.
The matter began at the point Mr W decided to cancel the first transfer and requested the 
second/reverse transfer. In this respect, it is worth noting that the argument about cancelling 
the transfer within a 30 days period concerns II, not Fidelity. Mr Ws position in this argument 
stood/stands against II. In his letter to II of 22 July 2021 he referred to exercising his right to 
cancel within 30 days and he enclosed the II cancellation form for that purpose. In addition, 
this argument was one of the issues addressed in IIs response to his complaint. For these 
reasons, I do not address and do not need to address this argument in this decision. It has 
no bearing on Fidelitys responsibility in the transfer process.
Mr Ws evidence confirms that he wrote to Fidelity on 16 August, enclosing his completed 
application form. Fidelity concedes the same. It is also agreed that Fidelity received, on 6 
October, the completed Discharge Form (DF) Mr W sent on 5 October. 
Up to this point, I consider that Fidelity could indeed have been more proactive and it 
appears to have conceded the same. Almost two months had passed since 17 August (when 
it received Mr Ws submission) yet the process was still at the DF receipt stage. I do not say 
Fidelity was solely responsible during this period, and I do not say this entire period 
amounted to an avoidable delay. Allowance should be given for time reasonably required by 
all parties to take relevant steps in the process, but there were avoidable delays within this 
period. 
It does not appear that Fidelity actioned the 17 August correspondence received from Mr W. 
Instead it waited to receive the same forms from II on 3 September and then actioned them. 
I do not consider that period (13 business days) of seeming inaction (with regards to the 
forms) to be justified. I appreciate that due process would have included the need to hear 
directly from II at this stage, so I do not criticise Fidelity for waiting to do that, but that did not 
justify its inaction in response to the forms it received from Mr W on 17 August. The opposite 
 acting on those forms  would probably have saved some time in terms of approaching II 
and/or Mr W to outline the steps to follow and with regards to the DFs.
The next step taken by Fidelity, as confirmed in its chronology of events, happened on 14 
September, when it issued enquiries to II. This appears to have been an unduly delayed 
step. It ought not to have taken Fidelity seven business days to make these enquiries, and it 
should have done that earlier. I find similarly with regards to the period between 20 
September and 2 October. On the former Fidelity received DFs from II that it was not happy with and, on the latter, it sent enquiries and what it considered to be the correct DFs to       
Mr W. I have not seen evidence to justify the nine business days that passed during this 
period and I consider that Fidelitys enquiries (and the DFs) should have been sent to Mr W 
earlier.
Overall, and up to 6 October, I have identified a total of 29 business days within which 
delays happened. On balance, and allowing for around three to five business days for 
Fidelity to take each of the steps I addressed (that is, process and respond to Mr Ws 
submissions, process and issue enquiries to II and process and issue enquiries (and the 
DFs) to Mr W), I consider that Fidelity probably caused a delay of between 14 and 20 
business days during this period.
From 6 October, Fidelity took another seven business days to act. It sent the DFs and 
enquiries to II on 15 October. I appreciate that there was probably more work for it to 
perform at this stage, in terms of reviewing the forms and the process, and I note Fidelitys 
assertion that it usually aims to process documents within nine working days. However, I do 
not consider that this means a full period of nine working can reasonably be allowed for this 
step. Fidelity was already engaged in enquiries and in the DFs before this step, so on 
balance it ought to have sent the enquiries and DFs to II earlier, within around five (not 
seven or nine) business days. The same finding applies to the seven business days it took, 
between 4 and 15 November, to resubmit the DFs after II said it had not received them. 
These findings mean a total of four additional delay days caused by Fidelity  and to a 
running delay total of between 18 and 24 business days.
Over the remainder of November, the two firms addressed technical issues arising in the 
transfer and, based on the facts, I am not persuaded to find that Fidelity caused a delay 
here. By the end of November, the transfer was approved and on 2 December Fidelity 
confirmed its acceptance of it. The funds began to transfer in this month and, as Fidelity 
says, it did not but could have chased better for funds that were outstanding. However, I am 
not persuaded that its lack of chasing correlated with any delays in the funds being sent 
over, so it is not safe to find that it caused a further and relevant delay in this respect. The 
funds were finally all transferred by February 2022.
Based on the above analysis, and evidence in support, I too consider that the total of £250 is 
fair compensation for the trouble and inconvenience caused, to Mr W, by Fidelitys delays. 
During the five months between August and December 2021, it probably caused a total 
delay of between 18 and 24 business days and, on balance, I am satisfied that the £250 it 
has offered Mr W caters for the trouble this caused him. Based on the understanding and 
expectation that Fidelitys offer remains open, I do not find grounds to order it to take any 
further action and I do not uphold Mr Ws claim for a higher award.
With regards to his claim about financial loss, it is worth starting with an acknowledgement 
that the transfer happened in-specie, so his SIPP investments were never out of the market 
and no financial loss arose in this respect. His claim is focused on the financial loss that he 
says arose from the fund switches he made in the SIPP later in 2021 (and then in early 
2022) that he would have made earlier, but for the delayed transfer. I have considered the 
details (of the switches) that he has provided. The investigator also noted evidence that prior 
to the transfer he was engaged in fund switches.
The decision to return the SIPP to Fidelity was Mr Ws and that was always going to be 
subjected to due process and the consumption of time, so the transfer process itself  had it 
happened without delays  would have impacted upon any imminent or short-term fund 
switches he planned to make. 
It does not fairly or automatically follow that because Fidelity caused some delays to the transfer process it is responsible for the specific losses he has claimed.
Based on the details Mr W presented, he says he would have started the first of five (paired) 
fund switching transactions on 15 November 2021 and the last on 14 January 2022; but 
instead, his first transaction started on 20 December 2020 and the last on 10 February 2022, 
and he says this resulted from the delayed transfer. However, on balance, I am not 
persuaded that the hypothetical timings (between November 2021 and January 2022) he 
asserts can be relied upon as evidence of what would probably have happened, but for the 
delay. As I said above, the transfer would inevitably have impacted upon any imminent or 
short-term fund switches. No guarantee was given by Fidelity as to when the transfer would 
conclude and I have not seen evidence that would have led Mr W to be certain that it would 
have concluded before 15 November 2021.
I am more persuaded by the likelihood that Mr W considered between prioritising the transfer 
and prioritising the fund switches (and then transferring thereafter); he chose the former; that 
carried the obvious implication that his fund switching plans could (or probably would) be 
impacted by the transfer process; that was a risk he undertook (and one that Fidelity does 
not share responsibility for); it would have been reasonable for him to expect a transfer 
without undue delays but, importantly, he had no grounds to expect completion by any 
specific time or date; therefore, a broad estimate probably applied; furthermore, market and 
price conditions would have been relevant to his decision making in the switches and he 
could not have predicted, in August, what these would be later in the year (or in November). 
Overall, on balance and for these reasons, I do not consider it can safely be found that the 
specific losses he has calculated resulted directly from the delayed transfer. It appears more 
likely (than not), or at least possible, that his assessment in this respect has been influenced 
by the benefit of hindsight, as opposed to it being evidence of what would have probably 
happened. 
On the above basis, I am not persuaded to uphold Mr Ws claim for financial loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman