DRN-2477896
The complaint
Mr M complains that Invesco Fund Managers Limited (Invesco) delayed sending him sale 
proceeds. He says Invesco made mistakes in verifying his identity and his address and he 
wants compensation.
What happened
Mr M sold his investment on 19 December 2019. He was aware that there might be a delay 
in receiving the proceeds because hed moved house and Invesco had received returned 
mail from his old address. Invesco told Mr M it would need to verify his identity before it 
could release the proceeds to him. Its electronic check wasnt successful, so it asked Mr M 
to provide certified copy documents. Mr M says he sent a bank statement and his passport, 
but that Invesco lost his passport. He says Invesco returned his documents to his old 
address, knowing Mr M didnt live there anymore. He didnt receive a cheque for the sale 
proceeds until 10 February. Mr M says hed agreed to buy a car and, when he didnt receive 
the cheque in January, he had to withdraw money from his ISA to pay for it.
Invesco said it didnt receive a copy of Mr Ms passport. And that when Mr M sent in a 
change of address form it was incorrectly dated. When the correctly dated change of 
address form was received, Invesco was able to complete its verification checks and sent 
him the cheque.
Our investigator thought something may have gone wrong during the first electronic check 
because Invesco said it couldnt verify either of Mr Ms addresses in December, but in 
January the electronic check worked for both of his addresses. But he didnt think that a 
mistake made in December made a difference to the overall outcome  because Invesco 
needed a correctly dated change of address form before it was able to complete its checks, 
and this wasnt received until 24 January.
Our investigator thought it was most likely that Mr M did send Invesco a copy of his passport 
and that it lost it. And he recommended Invesco pay Mr M £100 to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Invesco agreed to pay £100.
Mr M didnt agree. He asked for some further explanations as to what had happened, and 
more information was sought from Invesco to try to answer his questions. Mr M remained 
unhappy with the explanations given. He said, in summary, that:
Invesco now says it deviated from its policy; when previously it refused to do anything 
other than follow its internal procedures.
If he failed the electronic check because there was an address issue, why did the same 
check work at a later date?
Invesco should have been able to release the sale proceeds to him on day one  it had 
the same information available to it as when it finally did release the sale proceeds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling on this matter. I have fully considered everything he 
has told us, but I am not going to respond to every point one of the parties has made or to 
answer every question raised. That isnt because I havent taken into account what Mr M has 
said, but because my role is to focus on what I consider material to the outcome of the 
complaint.
Invesco told Mr M it would need to carry out verification checks on his identity and his 
address before it was able to release the sale proceeds to him. It had Mr Ms old address in 
its records  because Mr M hadnt told it his new one. And it had stopped sending mail to 
that address because post had been returned. Mr M told Invesco he still had access to the 
old address and, following this confirmation, I find it was reasonable for Invesco to lift its 
mailing restriction and to send correspondence to that address until such time that Mr M 
provided Invesco with written confirmation of his new address. But I also think it acted 
reasonably in not sending a cheque to that address when it knew Mr M wasnt permanently 
living there and it might take him time to access the post.
Invesco couldnt update its records with Mr Ms new address until it received his correctly 
dated change of address form on 24 January.
But it still needed to verify his identity before it was able to send him a cheque. It needed a 
certified copy of Mr Ms passport to complete its checks. Our investigator thought it was 
more likely than not that Mr M sent this to Invesco and that it mislaid it. And I agree. Invesco 
should have been able to verify Mr Ms identity on or around 4 January. But, if it hadnt lost 
Mr Ms passport, it still wouldnt have been able to send him a cheque until it had also 
verified his new address. And, as noted earlier, it couldnt do this until around 24 January 
when it received the change of address form.
I think, up until this point, Invesco had fairly followed its procedures. But, because Mr M was 
clear that it had sent it a copy of his passport, Invescos anti-money laundering team was 
asked to consider the information that had been received. It decided, in the particular 
circumstances here, that it did have enough information to release the sale proceeds to 
Mr M. In doing so I think it acted fairly and reasonably. Let me explain my reasons in a bit 
more detail.
Money laundering regulations and legislation place extensive obligations on financial 
businesses, and they are required to have suitable systems and processes in place. The 
regulations arent prescriptive and its up to businesses to put in place appropriate, risk-
based procedures. I dont find Invesco did anything wrong by following those procedures in 
Mr Ms case. And I also think it acted fairly  in taking a risk-based approach  when it took 
the decision to send the cheque to Mr M in the absence of having a certified copy of his 
passport in its records.
I think Invescos probable loss of Mr Ms copy passport did cause a small delay  whilst it 
referred to its anti-money laundering team to decide the way ahead. But Invesco did not earn 
any interest on Mr Ms money during this period as Mr M has suggested And it doesnt seem unreasonable that it took the time it did for Invesco to decide it had enough information to 
release the cheque.
Mr M told us he needed to buy a car and that he had to withdraw money from his ISA when 
he didnt receive the sale proceeds as quickly as hed anticipated. But I havent seen 
evidence that hed told Invesco about his plans for the money when he gave instructions to 
sell his investment, so I dont find it is responsible for any subsequent financial loss Mr M 
might claim.
I know Mr M will remain unhappy about the process Invesco followed. But my role isnt to 
consider how businesses develop and implement their policies and procedures. That is the 
role of the Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to consider individual disputes and reach 
an outcome that I think is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances.
And, in the circumstances here, I think our investigators recommendation that Invesco 
should pay Mr M £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that Invesco Fund Managers Limited should pay Mr M £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman