DRN-3064054
The complaint
Mrs J complains Santander UK Plc allowed her relatives to take over her accounts when it 
shouldnt have. This led to her being locked out of her own accounts and caused her a great 
deal of distress and inconvenience. 
Mrs J is represented in this matter by her friend. But for ease Ill refer to her representatives 
actions as Mrs Js own.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view there are three key aspects to this complaint, namely:
- Was it fair and reasonable for Santander to act on the Lasting Power of Attorney 
(LPA)?;
- Did Santander act fairly when Mrs J contacted it about what had happened? And; 
- Did Santander treat Mrs J unfairly in some other way?
Ill address each in turn. 
Was it fair and reasonable for Santander to act on the LPA?
In 2017 Mrs J arranged a LPA, registered with the Office of the Public Guardian (OPG), 
naming her two grandchildren as her attorneys in her property and financial affairs. The LPA 
was marked under Section 5 titled When can your attorneys make decisions? as Only 
when I dont have mental capacity. I think its clear Mrs Js intention was for her 
grandchildren to act for her only if she didnt have mental capability.
Mrs J argues Santander shouldnt have acted on the LPA without medical evidence which 
proved she didnt have mental capacity. She has referred to advice shes been given by a 
solicitor and staff at the OPG. She suggests Santander has acted unlawfully. Its not my role 
to say whether Santander has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. My 
role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to decide that, 
however, I have to take a number of things into account including relevant law and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
An attorney has significant responsibilities and must always act in the best interests of the 
donor, in this case, Mrs J. There are several principles which they must follow, as set out in 
the Mental Capacity Act 2015. The Mental Capacity Act Code of Practice sets out 
responsibilities around assessing mental capacity and says the following:
a donor can state in the LPA document that the LPA should only apply when they lack 
capacity to make a relevant decision. It is the donors responsibility to decide how their 
capacity should then be assessed. For example, the donor may trust the attorney to
carry out an assessment, or they may say that the LPA only applies if their GP or another 
doctor confirms in writing that they lack capacity to make specific decisions about property or 
finances. Financial institutions may [my emphasis] wish to see the written confirmation 
before recognising the attorneys authority to act under the LPA.
Ive also looked on the OPGs website. In the section titled Assessing mental capacity it 
says:
With a property and financial affairs LPA, the donor can decide whether it can be used:
-as soon as its registered
-only when they have lost mental capacity
the donor can say how their mental capacity should be assessed. However, if the donor 
trusts their attorneys to assess their mental capacity, they do not need to add instructions.
It goes on to give example instructions, such as:
My attorneys shall only act under this power if they have obtained a written medical opinion 
stating that I am no longer mentally capable of managing and administering my property and 
financial affairs.
Mrs Js LPA doesnt have an instruction about how her mental capacity should be assessed, 
and I havent been pointed to any relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice or good industry practice which would make me think 
Santander was required, in the absence of such an instruction, to ask for medical evidence. 
In this case, Santander was approached by Mrs Js attorneys with the LPA and identification 
to say they were whom they said they were. They went on to say  as I understand it  that 
Mrs J lacked capacity and Santander decided to act on their instructions. I dont think that 
was unfair or unreasonable. Ill explain why:
- As Ive already established, Santander wasnt required to ask for medical evidence 
and I see no reason for it to suspect foul play on the part of the attorneys, Mrs Js 
grandchildren, the people she presumably trusted, and the people she authorised in 
law to act in her best interest if/when she was unable to look after her own affairs. 
- The attorneys made a number of attempts to register the LPA before finally 
succeeding. But my understanding is the attempts failed for administrative reasons, 
for example pages of the LPA missing or insufficient identification. I dont think this 
ought to have flagged a problem Santander needed to address or notify Mrs J about.
- Santander should have assumed Mrs J had capacity. But here it wasnt interacting 
with Mrs J. Instead, it was being told by her attorneys she lacked capacity. My 
understanding is Mrs J hadnt been in contact with Santander in the run up to this 
happening, so it had no reason to doubt what it was being told. And although 
Santander could have contacted Mrs J about the matter, as shes suggested it should 
have, given the nature of what it had been told - namely, that she lacked capacity - 
Im not persuaded that would have been prudent. Mrs J appears to have been let down by her grandchildren. My understanding is theyre now 
estranged, and Mrs J has paid over £1,000 to revoke the LPA. Thats a very sad thing to 
hear and she has my sympathies. But for the reasons set out above, I think it was fair and 
reasonable, in these particular circumstances, for Santander to act on the LPA. It follows that 
I cant fairly ask it to compensate her for the impact this matter had on her or reimburse the 
costs she says shes incurred. 
Did Santander act fairly when Mrs J contacted it about what had happened? 
As instructed by the attorneys, Santander removed Mrs Js access to her accounts and gave 
them access. As Ive set out above, I think it was fair and reasonable for Santander to act on 
the LPA based on the information available to it at the time. But following contact from Mrs J, 
and the explanation about what had happened, it ought to have corrected things quickly and 
with minimum inconvenience to her.
Mrs J says she found out she couldnt access her account when she couldnt log into internet 
banking. She called her granddaughter about it whom admitted shed told Santander Mrs J 
no longer had capacity and instructed it not to allow any withdrawals from the account. Mrs J 
says this resulted in an argument between her and her granddaughter. Mrs J says she then 
met with her friend and a solicitor, and following this, contacted Santander on 20 July 2020 
to explain the situation.
I can see from Santanders notes it blocked further access by the attorneys that day and 
removed their access altogether the day after. So although I accept Mrs J had a lengthy call 
and found some of the agents she spoke to could have been more helpful and/or 
knowledgeable, Im satisfied Santander acted quickly.
Mrs J was asked to visit a local branch. She did this on 27 July 2020, when some friends 
were available to help her get there, but it wasnt easy as shes elderly and vulnerable. The 
visit resulted in all restrictions being lifted. My understanding, however, is Mrs J was only 
allowed to withdraw £100 and had to wait for a new card to access more, which didnt arrive 
until about three weeks after she first found she had no access to money.
I think Santanders service fell short here. I accept it had some concerns about unblocking 
Mrs Js account given it had been told she lacked capacity and there was a dispute between 
her and her attorneys. It follows that I find it was fair and reasonable to want to discuss 
matters with Mrs J. But Mrs J was elderly and vulnerable. That, alongside the backdrop of 
the pandemic, means I think it ought to have been able to satisfy itself there was no need to 
block access to Mrs Js account without the need for her to attend a branch. 
Insisting she attend a branch not only caused her a difficult visit, but also a delay in her 
getting access restored, meaning she was without her money for longer than reasonably 
necessary. And I see no justification in restricting her to withdrawing only £100 in branch if 
Santanders concerns had been alleviated during her visit. And as Santander has 
acknowledged, it could have offered Mrs J the opportunity to transfer money to a friend while 
things worked themselves out. 
Im aware of the difficulties Mrs Js lack of access to her money had had on her, including 
the inability to pay for groceries and helpers, and the need to rely on assistance of friends. 
Im also aware she was significantly impacted by the need to visit a branch. Santander has 
issued several final response letters relating to this complaint and has offered various 
apologies and offers of compensation, most recently a further £200 bringing the total 
compensation paid to Mrs J to £450. Mrs J is also very unhappy with the way Santander dealt with her complaint, particularly 
around delays and communication regarding final response letters. Ive taken this into 
account when deciding what Santander should do to put matters right. I cant, however, 
make recommendations to Santander so it can improve its practices and procedures, as 
Mrs J would like me to, as thats beyond my powers.
I dont underestimate the impact this matter has had on Mrs J and I have great deal of 
sympathy for what shes been through. Santander should have handled reversing what had 
been done and the complaint better. It should compensate Mrs J fairly. In my view, however, 
an apology and £450 fairly reflect the impact its failings had on her. It follows Im not 
requiring it to pay her more compensation. 
Did Santander treat Mrs J unfairly in some other way?
Mrs J is of the opinion Santander allowing the attorneys access to her account information 
amounts to a data breach. Its not for me to enforce data protection regulations  thats for 
the Information Commissioners Office. But as I find it was fair and reasonable for Santander 
to act on the LPA, I dont find it was unfair or unreasonable for it to disclose account 
information to the attorneys.
My final decision
Santander UK Plc could have handled things better. But its apologised and paid fair 
compensation, so I dont require it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman