DRN-4048702
The complaint
Mr O complained about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension plan, in 2010. He says the advice 
was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
JLT Wealth Management Limited is responsible for answering this complaint. Ive seen also 
that Mr O himself is represented by a third-party company. To keep things simple Ill refer 
mainly to JLT and Mr O when mentioning either party.
What happened
As Ill explain more about later, this was a relatively small pension and one which Mr O was 
a deferred member of. The pension originated from having been employed previously with a 
company between 2002 - 2005. It seems the trustees of the DB scheme wrote to deferred 
members like Mr O in late 2009 explaining it was looking at ways to manage its long-term 
pension commitments. 
The company decided to offer enhanced terms to members who chose to transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension scheme. Members of the DB scheme were also being offered 
regulated financial advice, the cost of which was being met by Mr Os former employer. JLT 
was contracted to provide that advice. Information gathered about Mr Os circumstances 
were broadly as follows:
Mr O was 39 years old, co-habiting with a partner and with two financially dependent 
children. He was in good health.
By the time of the advice, which was in 2010, Mr O had become self-employed and 
was earning around £75,000 per year. He owned a home and a second investment 
property. Their total value was around £450,000. Around £260,000 of this was 
mortgaged. 
He had some modest savings and non-secured debts which seemed under control. 
Mr O had another personal pension, which was also small, which was a defined 
contribution (DC) scheme.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Os DB pension at the time was 
around £14,500 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. A cash enhancement 
of 25% on top of the CETV (around £3,600) was being offered if he transferred away. 
Mr Os options were to keep the pension where it was and effectively do nothing. 
Alternatively, he could transfer away to a new personal pension arrangement and 
invest both the CETV and the enhancement in the new personal plan. He could also 
transfer away, but only invest half the CETV into a personal plan. In this case the 
remainder 50% of the enhancement would be taken as cash and used by Mr O as he 
saw fit.
JLT set out its advice in a suitability letter on 3 February 2010. It advised Mr O to transfer out 
of his DB scheme and into a personal plan. JLT said this was based upon the assumption 
that he could either invest the full transfer value, including the enhancement. Or he could 
take the part-enhancement as a cash payment and invest only the remainder amount in 
funds within a personal pension plan. Mr O agreed that he wanted to transfer out and he 
wanted to use the enhancement to add to his savings. So, he transferred from his DB 
scheme to a personal pension shortly thereafter. He immediately took the part-enhancement 
of around £1,815 as cash.
Ive noted that in 2021 JLT carried out an internal review of which Mr Os DB pension 
transfer was a part. The review concluded that the fund Mr O eventually transferred into in 
2010 when he moved away from his DB scheme wasnt in accordance with its fund 
recommendation. Agreeing therefore, that Mr O may have lost out on growth as a result of 
this fund selection, it offered to pay Mr O £1,964. JLT says this represents the difference 
between the fund he ultimately invested his transferred funds into, and the one he ought to 
have invested in.
It seems that Mr O then raised a complaint to JLT about its advice, saying he shouldnt have 
been advised to transfer out of his DB scheme at all. In response, JLT said it was acting on 
the financial objectives Mr O had at the time. 
Mr O then referred his case to our Service in 2022. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. JLT hasnt agreed with this and made a number of 
points in response to what our investigator said.
Mr O wants me to make a final decision about the transfer complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JLT's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, JLT should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Os best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the DB 
scheme to a personal pension arrangement was in Mr Os best interests. Overall, I dont 
think transferring was in his best interests, so Im upholding Mr Os complaint.
Financial viability
JLT referred in its transfer recommendation to critical yield rates. The critical yield is 
essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer 
value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits as the 
DB scheme. The critical yield is part of a range of different things which help show how likely 
it is that a transferred personal pension fund could achieve the necessary investment growth 
for a transfer-out to become financially viable. 
In its suitability report, the JLT adviser said that the critical yield required to match the 
benefits of the DB scheme he was in at the time, at his NRA of 65, was 7%. To be clear, this 
figure represented the scenario of Mr O transferring the CETV plus half of the enhancement 
offer. The critical yield for re-investing the CETV and the whole enhancement offer was 6.5%  
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
was 6.9% per year for 25 years to the NRA (age 65), which is very similar to the critical yield 
figures Ive mentioned above. I think it was clear Mr O was interested in taking the part-
enhancement as cash. And so I think that by using only this comparison, one could 
reasonably say that matching the critical yield was achievable. 
However, I need to look at the individual circumstances of this case closely. For example, 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper growth projection rate at the time was 9%, 
the middle projection rate was 7%, and the lower projection rate was 5%. This is important in 
this case, because Mr O himself ticked on a form that he had an adventurous approach to 
risk. So, if investing his transferred pension into a type of money market fund, I dont think 
that adopting an assumed growth towards the regulators upper projection would have been 
unreasonable  and this means there could have been a credible possibility of exceeding the 
critical yield figures. This is because the regulators upper projections were higher than the 
critical yield rates.
However, our investigator thought JLTs categorisation of Mr O as an adventurous investor 
was too high. They said his investment experience wasnt clear enough to justify this and 
that his other financial assets indicated he might have only a low capacity for loss.Ive given careful thought as to whether Mr O would have really understood the implications 
of this ATR selection, rather than him just ticking a box about what he thought he wanted 
without being able to draw on relevant experience to help him. JLT says the investigator set 
the bar too high when saying they didnt think Mr O really had such a high ATR. It said, for 
example the investigator was, implying that unless a client is either a stockbroker/financial 
expert or holds a significant portfolio they are unable to take more than a balanced level of 
risk.
But I think all this needs some explanation. Firstly, I think its important to bear in mind that 
when the ticking of an ATR box comes from the client, Id still expect to see the adviser 
assessing the chosen category and using their professional judgement and experience to 
make sure it was realistic. And when selecting a higher category of risk, Id expect to see 
some context around it. I think its fair to say, for instance, that selecting a higher category 
would be somewhat uncommon. But more so, Id also expect to see that such a client had 
some basis for choosing this and that they had some relevant experience to draw upon, 
especially when moving a safe DB pension into a money market fund. 
In this case, the adviser simply didnt record any such context or evidence. In fact, theres no 
suggestion Mr O had any similar investments  his £5,000 savings were described as being 
in cash and a further £12,000 was in an ISA. Ive taken this to be a cash ISA since we know 
Mr O eventually paid the part-cash enhancement into this. Ive also seen nothing suggesting 
his DB pension was invested in higher risk funds or stock. Here would have been a good 
opportunity for the adviser to substantiate the adventurous ATR selection by referring to 
similar investments held within his other DC scheme. Or the adviser might have referred to 
any wider investing experience Mr O had or why he was prepared to invest in adventurous 
funds. But this wasnt recorded and so Ive nothing to show he had any experience to draw 
upon  or that his DC funds werent just invested in low risk, balanced or managed funds 
which required little or no personal involvement from Mr O. Ive further noted that the fund 
recommendation from JLT was for a 25% allocation to a balanced fund. The adviser said, 
we would recommend that you invest 25% in the [x] Fund to match your balanced attitude 
to risk, and 75% in [y] Index Fund to match your adventurous attitude to risk. I think this is 
unclear as to what ATR the adviser was actually targeting. 
So, whilst Im mindful of JLTs assertion that we may be somewhat risk averse in our 
approach to these things, I dont think this is right. And in this situation, theres simply no 
evidence that Mr O really had a realistic ATR at the adventurous level. JLT asked me to 
consider his investment property business interest. But I dont think this adds anything. 
Investment in a property is a different scenario entirely and I dont think theres a direct link 
between this and adventurous money market fund investments. In any event, I think the 
adviser should have evidenced their thinking behind this categorisation more clearly, 
particularly as this was Mr Os pension.
As for his capacity for loss, I think our investigator was right to highlight the issue. I do 
accept, however, that Mr O was on an apparently high income  and I accept he did have 
some savings. I agree with JLT when it says now that Mr O probably could have tolerated 
some losses. But I still dont think this changes anything as regards the risk appetite which 
seems confused and unclear. As regards his high income at the time, the problem is that 
we dont really know what his precise financial commitments were as these werent 
recorded. I think its reasonable to say he had two mortgages for instance. So, whilst I note 
he was earning £75,000 I think this was his total income, and his outgoings may also have 
been high. Again, the adviser failed to set out enough information to show he would have 
had a substantial enough disposable income to justify the potential to invest aggressively 
and perhaps incur occasional losses in doing so.Ive also been asked to consider the equity in his properties when considering a capacity for 
loss. On paper this read like he had £190,000  a buffer if you like - to absorb losses. But 
again, the adviser failed to be clear and seems to have taken shortcuts. By this I mean the 
individual values of his main and investment properties were not listed on the fact-find; only 
the total combined value was. And I think its unlikely that Mr O would have been considering 
selling down his main residence as a means of supplementing his retirement income or 
making up losses in investments. Downsizing can indeed support retirement income; but to 
suggest a 39-year-old with two very young children was incorporating his main residence 
being sold to partly pay for his retirement planning isnt credible in my view, and its certainly 
not recorded that way, from documents used at the time. 
The investment property equity will have been a different prospect although again the 
adviser didnt really consider this comprehensively. This is because the individual equity 
wasnt listed  but if releasing equity in the second property was a strategy, then clearly this 
would involve selling the asset and thus losing the rental income. Given Mr Os overall 
pension provision was so modest, I think its fair to assume the rental income was something 
he envisaged being a constituent part of a retirement income.
So, overall I also think the ATR category was pitched too high. As can be seen above, Ive 
considered it with care. But the adviser simply didnt go into enough detail to set out just how 
Mr O would manage financially in retirement.
All this means that I think the likelihood of Mr O eventually receiving lower benefits in his 
retirement, as a result of transferring this particular pension to a personal plan, were quite 
high. This is because I think the categorisation of him as an adventurous investor, in these 
particular circumstances, wasnt reasonable given the lack of supporting evidence. And this 
means achieving growth close to the critical yield of 7% may about just have been possible, 
although in my view still slightly more unlikely than likely.
I say this because the discount rate was 6.9% and the regulators mid growth projection  a 
more appropriate category Id say  was 7%. However, I think there would be little point in 
transferring away from a DB scheme only to achieve financial benefits of a similar nature 
when substantial guarantees and benefits would also be lost. I also think that achieving 
growth of over 7%, year-on-year, for over 25 years until his NRA was unlikely.
Of course, according to JLT, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. Rather, 
JLT said Mr O had additional reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the other 
considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him. 
Ive considered these below.
Other reasons given for the transfer advice
Ive used the documentation from JLT at the time to help list some of the themes the 
recommended transfer-away was based on. Mr O considered the following things important 
to him:
You would like a cash sum now, at the cost of sacrificing future benefits, so that you 
can invest in an ISA 
The fund benefits do not represent a significant proportion of your potential 
retirement funds
Your dependents will receive significant sums on your death before retirementYou would prefer to move your pension to an individual plan which is under your 
control
The ability to take a tax-free lump sum at your normal retirement date is important to 
you
When you retire you want your pension to increase to provide some protection 
against inflation.
JLT said also said, in its recommendation section, that the transfer should go ahead for the 
following reasons:
Transferring will give you an immediate cash sum of £1,815 which you want now to 
invest in an ISA
Transferring will provide you with more overall flexibility and personal control over 
your pension fund which is important to you 
Transferring may provide a higher level of tax-free cash at retirement which is 
important to you.
So, as well as being the only way to access the cash enhancement there and then, it seems 
the broader supporting reasons that JLT recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr O. 
In some respects, the objectives for the transfer and the language used in the suitability 
report was somewhat generic and I think the adviser could and should have done a better 
job at really pinpointing their rationale for what they were recommending that Mr O ought to 
do. 
The cash enhancement
I can see JLT has pointed out that our investigator wasnt clear when mentioning about a 
tax-free cash element and investing this in an ISA. I think thats right, as the View issued by 
the investigator implied that Mr O would receive a tax-free lump sum.
What I think the investigator actually meant was that the enhancement offer was a 25% uplift 
of the CETV, if Mr O accepted it. The only way Mr O could gain access to the 25% incentive 
was to transfer away from his DB scheme. Half of this enhancement could be taken as a 
cash payment and the other half re-invested in the new personal pension plan. Mr O didnt 
receive any tax-free cash in the way normally associated with pensions as he wasnt yet old 
enough to do that.
However, I think the JLT adviser should have been stepping in at this point. If Mr O was 
saying that hed like to accept the enhancement of £1,815 then this came with certain 
disadvantages. The first is that this was subject to income tax and national insurance (NI). I 
do acknowledge that Mr O was probably told this, but if hed either not transferred  or 
indeed reinvested it in his new pension  hed not pay either tax or NI. The plan was also to 
invest it into his ISA, which would still have meant tax and NI was payable before investing it 
in the wrapper.
I dont think theres any clear evidence why the adviser would consider this recommendation 
as being in Mr Os best interests. Theres no suggestion he needed this money and we know that in 2010 interest rates were very low. So, I think the likelihood was that this amount 
would grow very little in the foreseeable future. Of course, this was still a payment Mr O 
wouldnt have got had he not transferred away from the DB scheme. But the adviser needed 
to balance this by thinking about the wider consequences of leaving the DB scheme. In all 
likelihood, this cash enhancement was a small amount of money for Mr O as it would have 
represented only around 2% of his annual gross income. Investing in an ISA wasnt a good 
rationale for transferring away from a DB scheme and so placing this at the top of the 
recommendation objectives was, in my view, wrong.
Instead, think the adviser should have been emphasising the rationale for transferring away 
from his DB scheme for such a trivial amount wasnt worth it. And at the very least, the 
adviser could have also emphasised the tax-free environment which pensions enjoyed. In 
short, there was no sensible case for using this cash as a positive reason for transferring 
away. It was a short-term and inefficient gain, which would be offset by longer term losses to 
Mr Os retirement savings.
flexibility and personal control 
I think the implication that Mr O could have more flexibility and control over his pension 
funds, moving forward, was no more than a stock objective used to help justify the overall 
transfer recommendation. I say this because flexibility was poorly defined here and Ive 
seen no evidence Mr O had either the desire or capacity to manage this pension fund.
I start from the premise that Mr O was so long away from retirement as to make a case for 
flexible income no more than pure speculation. In the documents from the time, Mr O picked 
a round figure of £30,000 annually as being his required income in retirement. But in my 
view this couldnt be anything more than guesswork. For him, the age of 65 was still over 25 
years away and so neither he, nor JLT, could have any idea what his circumstances might 
be. So there was no case for flexibility.
Even if I were to consider that flexibility emerged in the intervening years, then Mr O could 
have reassessed this when he was much nearer retirement age. Its also wrong to assume 
these types of pension have no flexibility at all. Early retirement is often possible under DB 
schemes as there is an ability to either take  or not take - a tax-free lump sum. Essentially 
though, no substantive case was made out for the need for flexibility and if the adviser 
thought there was one, then they should have explained why.
As for wanting control of the pension, Im afraid I can see no evidence of this. The reality 
here is that we cant really be sure what Mr Os retirement strategy was  although when 
providing regulated retirement advice around a pension, this is probably a good time to have 
recorded it. But Mr Os pension planning looked uncertain. He was approaching 40 and still 
had only very moderate pension provision. So, if the adviser was promoting that he should 
take control of the funds I think they should have also included some details of what this 
looked like and what the objectives were. As I mentioned earlier, theres no evidence Mr O 
was experienced in investment matters to the extent that transferring this DB scheme to a 
money market fund was merited. It was already managed for him by trustees: by moving 
away from this he would be required to manage and monitor his investments and there is 
every likelihood the charges and fees involved would have been higher.
So, I havent seen any evidence why a 39-year-old would need to gain the flexibility or 
control over their pension in the way implied here. Our investigator also pointed out, quite 
rightly, that future growth couldnt be guaranteed whilst Mr Os DB pension was.
tax-free cash at retirementIt was implied on the suitability report that transferring may eventually provide a higher level 
of tax-free cash at retirement and that this was important to Mr O. In my view, this was a 
generic and again, a stock objective of no real relevance to Mr Os situation. He was still 25 
years from the NRA and so, in my view, couldnt realistically know what his plans yet were.  
It was true, however, that Mr O would likely be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-
sum at some point (currently this is at the age of 55). And its usually the case that more tax-
free cash can be often accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB 
scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated 
differently. But JLT should have been telling Mr O at the time that any extra tax-free lump 
sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially from his late fifties in his case, 
also came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would 
obviously decrease. 
But again, I take account of the small size of this pension. Of course, its possible the tax-
free cash at retirement issue was not really an objective or rationale for transferring, it was 
simply a statement of fact, albeit a rather inappropriate one to make at that juncture. I can 
think of no reason why the adviser included it where they did.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. In this case its not entirely clear how 
much the death benefits found in the DB scheme were a prominent feature in the advice. 
JLT did include this issue, however, in the suitability report (under issues important to Mr O). 
This said, Your dependents will receive significant sums on your death before retirement. 
I cant say whether, or to what extent, the death benefits issue influenced Mr Os decision to 
transfer away. But he was still only 39 years old and in good health. I think this advice pre-
dated when the entire value of a pension in a personal scheme could be passed on upon 
death tax-free but I think Mr Os DB scheme death benefits were still of use. Although not 
married at the time, he may have married in the future. And I think Mr Os dependent 
children could have received some benefits from the scheme if he died. It wasnt made clear 
why hed want to give these up.
Other issues
Ive noted Mr O told JLT that when he retired, you want your pension to increase to provide 
some protection against inflation. This was specifically recorded on the suitability report. In 
my view, the advice to transfer did the opposite of this. I do accept this was a small pension, 
but it was nevertheless guaranteed and benefited from annual indexation. Obviously 
transferring to a higher risk money market fund provided no such protections for him.
Summary
Mr Os case is not straightforward and has individual features that need to be carefully 
considered. For example, the pension involved was relatively small. The CETV was around 
£14,500 and the annual pension quoted was £2,707. But this referred to what he would likely 
get in 2035 when he reached the age of 65. And so, in the context of todays prices this 
would have meant a modest pension, albeit a guaranteed one for life.
I also think its important to note that Mr Os overall pension provision at the time was 
relatively modest for a man of his age and wider financial circumstances. As well as his 
small DB scheme, this also comprised of an existing small DC pension fund of around 
£12,000. So, I think its fair to say his total pension provisions thus far were unlikely to come 
close to meeting his anticipated financial needs in retirement without stepping up the contributions substantially. Of course, this may have been part of Mr Os plan although its 
not recorded as such on the suitability report. Ive also noted and considered the additional 
property investment which I assume may also have been intended to complement his later 
life savings / income.
So, on one hand, I think its possible to speculate that what Mr O was thinking at the time is 
that this DB pension really wasnt worth much. He was also being offered a small cash 
enhancement to exit the DB scheme and one could say he may have just wanted to try and 
grow his limited pension resources as adventurously as possible by investing in these 
types of more risky funds. He may well have concluded that the DB pension was small 
enough to merit this kind of risk and if he lost some money, then the loss wouldnt be 
material.
However, on the other hand, I think its unhelpful that the adviser in this case did a poor job 
at identifying what Mr Os retirement objectives and needs really were. The recommendation 
the adviser made simply focussed on a series of stock objectives which didnt really relate 
to Mr O. There was no evidence that the cash enhancement of £1,815 was of much use to 
Mr O. He didnt appear to need such a moderate sum at the time and all he did with it was to 
invest in a low interest ISA; and he incurred a tax and NI bill in so doing. There was also no 
evidence Mr O needed any flexible features in his pension, nor was there any case made out 
for him specifically wanting to take personal control of the funds. The loss of death benefits 
in the DB scheme were less relevant although by leaving the scheme Mr Os two children 
could potentially lose something if he died.
But the bigger risk here was transferring away from a guaranteed, indexed-linked pension at 
the age of just 39. Neither Mr O nor JLT could possibly say what his retirement would look 
like and so the much more suitable option was to remain in the scheme until much nearer 
retirement age. I think its possible he didnt place a high importance on pensions generally, 
as he had another form of income generation. But nevertheless, I think by retirement he 
could have complemented his property income with his own DC scheme, which did have 
flexible elements, and which he could have continued to contribute towards in the future, 
between the ages of 40  65 for example. And a further complement to his provision was 
with his existing DB scheme which provided the security and certainty DC schemes tend to 
lack. I think if more suitably advised, Mr O would have seen why this diversity of schemes 
would have best suited his needs.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for JLT to put Mr O, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr O would have most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
JLT must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Os acceptance of the decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, JLT should:
calculate and offer Mr O redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr O before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr O receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr O accepts JLTs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr O for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Os end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr O as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, JLT may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr 
Os likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So making a notional 
deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
JLT pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I direct JLT Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr O the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
JLT Wealth Management Limited pays Mr O the balance.
If Mr O accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr O can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr O may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Michael CampbellOmbudsman