DRN-3941483
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy with how The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Platform (Platform) 
handled her application to port her mortgage and take a new loan.
What happened
Mrs E took out a fixed-rate repayment mortgage with Platform in August 2020, due to expire 
in November 2022.
Mrs E approached Platform to find out whether she could port her existing mortgage to a 
new property and if so, how much more she could borrow. Following this, Mrs E had an offer 
accepted on a property she wished to purchase and an application to port her mortgage and 
apply for an additional loan was submitted by her broker on 16 July 2021. 
Mrs E says Platform was only contactable by phone or letter, but there were lengthy wait 
times if you did phone. Mrs E says, during a call on 3 August 2021, she was told that her 
application hadnt been looked at, was given conflicting information, and was told her 
application could take another 20 working days. 
Mrs E says she didnt receive any help to try and speed things up, but received a phone call 
the next day warning her that she would have to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) if 
she didnt port her mortgage. Mrs E says Platform wouldnt provide a timescale for how long 
it would take, and she was forced to take a mortgage with a different lender who processed 
her application within five days. Mrs Es mortgage with Platform was redeemed on 31 August 
2021 and she was charged an ERC of around £1,500.
Mrs E complained that Platforms handling of her application was extremely stressful and 
affected her emotionally, mentally, and physically. She says she was particularly worried 
about the impact on her mortgage chain. So, Mrs E thinks she should be compensated for 
this as well as the financial loss she incurred having to pay an ERC.
Platform looked into Mrs Es concerns and issued a final response letter on 27 October 
2021. It explained that it was experiencing exceptionally high demand at the time Mrs E 
applied to port her mortgage and the relevant timescales would have been sent to her broker 
when the application was submitted. It said this information is also available on its website. 
Platform apologised Mrs E was incorrectly told her application wasnt submitted on 16 July. 
And that she was incorrectly given a timescale of 15 days during a phone call. It said the 
timeframe is actually 30 days and it was doing everything it could to reduce timescales. 
Platform didnt agree that it should refund the ERC as it said it was Mrs Es decision to 
proceed elsewhere, but it did offer her £75 to say sorry for any stress or inconvenience 
caused by the incorrect information she was given. 
Mrs E didnt accept Platforms response and brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into everything, but they found that Mrs E may have been able to 
complete her application with Platform before the property purchase went through, so they 
didnt think Platform needed to do anything more. As Mrs E remained unhappy, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mrs Es complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why. 
Ive seen a confirmation email Mrs Es broker received from Platform on 16 July 2021 
confirming that an application had been received. Platform says this email would have 
indicated the relevant timescales involved, but I cant see that it did. The email doesnt say 
anything about timescales, it just confirms an application had been submitted. 
So, Im satisfied an application was submitted on 16 July, but I dont agree that Platform 
informed the broker of the relevant timescales at this stage. That said, its possible the 
broker was told this in other correspondence I've not seen. Particularly as the broker was 
liaising with a specific contact at the business over mobile phone and Ive been unable to 
find out what was discussed in those calls. In addition, if timescales were a concern, Mrs E 
or her broker could have seen the relevant information on Platforms website which confirms 
broker applications take around 30 days. 
Mrs E has explained that her property purchase was originally due to complete on 13 August 
2021, but this was moved to 20 August 2021, which is the date shed hoped Platform would 
have approved her porting and new loan applications in time for. As Mrs E was concerned 
her application hadnt progressed, she spoke to Platform on 3 August 2021, around two 
weeks after her application was submitted. During the call, Platform advised Mrs E her 
application wouldnt be ready to complete by 20 August 2021. Its not surprising this 
concerned Mrs E, and she confirmed she was considering approaching a different lender as 
a result. 
Mrs E has provided information that shows a mortgage illustration was produced by a third-
party lender on the same day. Ive also seen a copy of an email she sent to her solicitor on 
the same day explaining that she had sought an offer from a third-party lender and that she 
would have to pay an ERC so as not to disrupt the chain. She confirmed she felt Platform 
was responsible for this. 
On 4 August 2021, Platform spoke to Mrs E again and explained that it didnt receive the 
application from her broker until around 22 July. They also said while they may have said it 
takes 15 days to review the application, the full process, from receipt to offer, takes around 
30 days. Platform said it was unable to provide an indicative completion date at this time.
Considering what was discussed in the calls on 3 and 4 August, I can understand why Mrs E 
had concerns about her applications progressing on time. Particularly because she was 
under the impression her application should have been processed within 15 days and she 
now believed her application had been lost due to the misunderstanding about its received 
date. But having reviewed all of the evidence, I havent seen anything to suggest the 
application was lost, it appears to have been in a queue that was being reviewed in order of 
submission. Mrs E says she begged Platform to speed up the process, but it refused. While I can 
appreciate Mrs E was concerned about any delays affecting her chain, I dont think that 
means Platform should have prioritised her application. Its more likely than not most of 
Platforms other customers would have been in a similar position, so I wouldnt have 
expected it to progress Mrs Es application ahead of anyone else who submitted theirs 
before her. 
Mrs E made the decision to approach a different lender as soon as the timescale she 
thought applied had passed, even though she was advised during the call on 3 August that 
the timescale was actually 30 days. While Platform wouldnt give her a specific date, the 
timescales given suggest she could have expected her application to have been ready on or 
around 16 August. In addition, I think its relevant to acknowledge that many businesses 
were experiencing delays at the time, mainly due to the coronavirus, Covid-19, pandemic 
and the removal of stamp duty. 
Mrs E says it only took the third-party lender five days to offer her a new mortgage. I dont 
think this has any bearing on my findings. Mrs Es broker applied for the mortgage with the 
third-party on 3 August and Ive seen a copy of an approved offer that was sent on 
18 August 2021. Platform has confirmed it contacted Mrs Es broker on 10 August 2021 for 
some more information, but if it werent for this it should have been ready that day. Platform 
says it chased the information twice, but didnt receive a response, and on 18 August 2021 it 
was informed that the application had been cancelled. 
While I appreciate Mrs E couldnt be certain when her Platform application would complete, 
she was eventually told the correct timescale, of around 30 days, and I think its more likely 
than not the application with Platform would have been able to complete around the same 
time, if not before, the application through the third-party lender. Mrs E says she had to 
move the completion date again, to 27 August, but ultimately everything went ahead without 
the chain breaking. And I think its more likely than not the same would have happened had 
she stayed with Platform. 
Considering everything, its clear Mrs E was given some misinformation along the way, but 
the timescales involved are relatively short and I dont think this would have had a significant 
impact on Mrs Es ability to proceed with her property purchase. I know moving home is a 
stressful life event for most people, and that Mrs E may have felt pressure to make a 
decision about how to proceed. But I dont think it was essential for her to switch to a 
different lender in order to purchase her new home, so I dont think Platform is responsible 
for the ERC she had to pay as a result. 
Mrs E was clearly frustrated with the contradicting information she received, and its 
understandable she was worried about whether she could rely on the new information 
Platform had given her, but ultimately it was her decision to go elsewhere and she was 
aware she would have to pay an ERC to get out of her existing agreement early. Mrs E 
seems to have considered the pros and cons of this when she emailed her solicitor 
accepting that she would have to pay the ERC to ensure everything was done on time. 
Platform has offered Mrs E £75 to say sorry for the misinformation she received, and I think 
thats fair in the circumstances. I know this may seem like a small sum due to level of impact 
Mrs E says this experience had on her, her family and the other families involved in her 
chain. But as Ive said above, the complaint concerns isolated events where some incorrect 
information was given. This was over a relatively short period of time and the timescales 
Mrs E anticipated in terms of her mortgage application only increased by 15 days. And I 
think its more likely than not Mrs Es purchase would have gone ahead if she stayed with 
Platform, so I dont think it needs to do anything more to put things right. Platform has confirmed Mrs E didnt accept its offer, so if she wants to accept it now, she 
can sign and return the settlement form attached.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Es 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman