DRN-4153656
The complaint
Ms C and Miss S complain that Advantage Insurance Company Limited didnt notify them 
that their motor insurance policy had been cancelled. They want it to reinstate the policy and 
refund the cost of a new one. Ms C is a named driver on Miss Ss policy and represents her 
in this matter.
What happened
Advantage said it cancelled Miss Ss policy because it hadnt received driving data from her 
telematics device. It said it had sent emails to Miss S telling her that it wasnt receiving data, 
notifying her that the policy would be cancelled, and then notifying her of the cancellation. 
But Ms C said they didnt receive these.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Miss Ss contact 
preference was by email, and he saw that Advantage had her correct address. He saw 
screenshots that showed that Advantage had sent its three letters by email to Miss S. And 
he thought Advantage was entitled by the policys terms and conditions to cancel the policy if 
driving data wasnt received. So he thought Advantage had most likely sent notice and then 
fairly cancelled the policy. 
Ms C replied that they hadnt received the emails and Advantage hadnt provided proof that 
they had been sent to her. She said their preferred contact method was by email, but initial 
notifications came through an app. She said the cancellation notice came by letter. She 
thought Advantage should have written or called when they hadnt responded to its emails. 
She said the consequences for her daughter were significant. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms C and Miss S feel frustrated that their policy was cancelled, and 
that Miss Ss premiums have increased as a result. I can also understand that it must have 
been a shock to learn of this a week after the cancellation. Fortunately, nothing untoward 
happened in the meantime. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Miss S policy requires that driving data is received from her telematics device 
or else the policy will be cancelled. I dont think this an unusual requirement in telematics 
policies. And I think it was sufficiently brought to Miss Ss attention when she took out her 
policy for Advantage to rely on it. 
When she bought her policy, Miss Ss stated preferred contact method was by email. The 
email address on her policy was that used by Ms C. And so I think Advantage had her 
correct email address. 
Advantage has provided us with a screenshot of its correspondence to Miss S. It firstly sent 
her a welcome email. I cant see that Miss S has said she didnt receive this. Then further 
letters were posted on her online account site. Ms C said they had received these. 
Then five months into the policy, Advantage said driving data wasnt being received so it 
emailed Miss S a letter to ask her to correct this. No response was received from Miss S, so 
Advantage emailed her a letter notifying her that her policy would be cancelled in fourteen 
days unless she made contact. Miss S again didnt respond, so Advantage cancelled the 
policy and it sent Miss S a letter by post and an email to confirm this. 
Miss S received the letter by post, but Ms C said she hadnt received the emails. When Ms C 
complained, Advantage emailed its response to her. And I can see that this was sent to the 
same email address as on the policy documents and on Ms Cs complaint to us. I havent 
been told that Miss S changed the email address on her account. 
Ms C said she searched her account for Advantages emails, but she couldnt locate them. 
And I have no reason to doubt her. But Advantage has provided sufficient evidence to show 
that it sent the emails to the correct address. And because some were received by Ms C, I 
have no evidence to show that there was an error that stopped them from being sent. I cant 
hold Advantage responsible for Ms Cs internet provider. 
Ms C thought that when no response was received, Advantage should have used other 
methods of contact. But, whilst this may be good customer service, I think it was reasonable 
for Advantage to rely on Miss Ss stated contact preference. 
We believe that insurers should take reasonable steps to ensure that policy holders are told 
that their policy has been cancelled as this will have serious consequences for them and 
expose them to possible court action. And I can see that Advantage sent its final notice of 
cancellation by post and email, so I think it did this. 
So I think Advantage took reasonable steps to make Miss S aware that her driving data 
wasnt being received. And then I think it cancelled the policy fairly and reasonably in 
keeping with the policys terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman