DRN-3279967
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) has handled her 
claim on her buildings warranty.
What happened
Mrs S purchased a new flat in 2006, which came with a ten-year buildings warranty provided 
by NHBC. Soon after moving in she discovered problems with damp and mould at the 
property which were first dealt with by the developer. When they went into liquidation in 
2009, HNBC took over. In the years that followed NHBC carried out investigations and 
attempted repairs. However the problems remained unresolved. 
In this time Mrs S made a number of complaints to NHBC and this service. She was 
unhappy with how NHBC had handled the claim and didnt agree with the action it had taken 
to fix the problems. 
In 2020 the flat was still experiencing problems with damp and Mrs S raised a further 
complaint. In this, she accused NHBC of professional negligence and said she thought it had 
falsified information and tried to cover up the real cause of the problems. Due to the nature 
of the allegations, NHBC responded with a legal letter to deny the allegations. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs S brought her complaint to this service to be investigated. 
On receipt of the complaint, NHBC confirmed to our investigator that its position was as 
outlined in its legal letter and therefore was taking no further action to address the points 
raised. 
Based on this, our investigator looked into whether NHBC had done enough to resolve the 
issues. He concluded that as part of this complaint we wouldnt be able to review everything 
that had happened throughout the claim, due to time limits and previous complaints that 
were brought to the service. However from what hed seen he didnt think NHBC had done 
enough to resolve matters for Mrs S. He therefore upheld the complaint and recommended 
NHBC Pay Mrs S:
 £1,500 compensation to apologise for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
 £1,500 as a goodwill payment to make up for the additional heating costs.
 An additional £200 compensation for the distress caused by it sharing her private 
information.
 £3,971.84 to resolve her claim for the ventilation of the flat. 
However he didnt agree that loss of rental income should be paid, as this wasnt something 
provided for under the warranty.
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators view. She thought she should also be paid for loss 
of rental income, as due to the condition of her property, she wasnt able to rent it out during 
the period of the claim. She said our investigator had incorrectly interpreted her request as 
she felt NHBC should pay loss of rent as compensation for her financial loss and not as part 
of the warranty cover.
Our investigator considered this and agreed we could consider loss of rent as part of the 
complaint. However he didnt think it was fair ask NHBC to pay it in this case. He said that in 
order to say a payment was due hed need to see evidence of a specific loss and not just a 
potential loss. And NHBC had paid for alternative accommodation for this time, so it wouldnt 
be fair to ask it to also pay for loss of rent. 
Mrs S didnt agree and said she still felt a loss of rent payment was due. She asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Since the complaint came to me, NHBC has agreed to our investigators recommendations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S hasnt disputed our investigators findings in relation to the compensation, heating 
costs and the ventilation costs awarded. And NHBC has now agreed to these 
recommendations. 
Having considered everything I think these awards are fair. So I see no reason to depart 
from our investigators recommendations and will require NHBC to make payment in line 
with these recommendations.
The issue left in dispute here is whether loss of rent is also due in addition. So Ive focussed 
my review on considering this point.
Mrs S has said that had NHBC dealt with her claim promptly, she would have been able to 
rent out the property for a number of years. And has therefore suffered a direct loss from not 
receiving the rental income she would have, which is due to the condition of the property and 
delays caused by NHBC.
When considering whether a business should pay compensation for a financial loss, 
including loss of rent, I must consider two things. Firstly, I need to be satisfied that the 
consumer is out of pocket due to either having not received money or having spent money 
they otherwise wouldnt have done. And then I need to be satisfied that had it not been for 
the business error or poor service, the consumer would not be out of pocket.
 
Usually where this service finds that a loss of rent payment is due, a property will already be 
tenanted or tenants will be lined up to move in. In these cases we can say that rent would 
have been received if the property had been habitable, as an agreement has been made 
between the owner and the tenants about how much will be paid each month. So it can be 
evidenced that the consumer was out of pocket by that amount. Here, Mrs S daughter was 
living at the property. And while I understand Mrs S had a buy to let mortgage, so she likely 
had the intention to rent the flat out, I cant say that she would have been out of pocket by a 
certain amount each month. I say this as there had never been a rental agreement in place 
or any potential tenants. And there would no doubt be costs associated with her daughter 
living elsewhere.
Ive also considered that while the property hasnt been habitable, NHBC has paid for Mrs S 
daughter to live in alternative accommodation. This meant that while the flat may not have 
been able to be marketed to tenants, Mrs S daughter was provided with somewhere else to 
stay at no cost to Mrs S. So I dont think it would be fair to ask NHBC to also pay for loss of 
rent during this time. I note Mrs S comments that this was part of NHBC paying for a valid claim and didnt make up part of her compensation claim against NHBC. However I dont 
consider this relevant. It is my role to consider whether NHBC has acted fairly in resolving 
Mrs S complaint and to do this I need to consider what it has done as part of her claim. And 
the fact it has already paid for alternative accommodation is a consideration when reaching 
my decision about loss of rent. 
And finally, while Mrs S has provided a valuation from an estate agent that shows how much 
rent the flat would likely attract, as it was never marketed and had no confirmed tenants its 
not possible to say with any certainty how long the property would have taken to rent out or 
what rent it would have gone for. So Im not satisfied that a direct financial loss has been 
evidenced.
So for these reasons, Im not satisfied that Mrs S has suffered a direct financial loss of rental 
income due to NHBCs handling of her claim. And I therefore wont ask NHBC to cover this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Mrs Ss complaint. And require National House-Building 
Council to pay her:
 £1,500 compensation to apologise for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
 £1,500 as a goodwill payment to make up for the additional heating costs.
 An additional £200 compensation for the distress caused by it sharing her private 
information.
 £3,971.84 to resolve her claim for the ventilation of the flat. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman