DRN-1619501
 
complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her two payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies. 
background
Mrs M took out two credit cards with Lloyds in 1994. Both sales happened in the same 
transaction. At some point  either at the point of sale or in the years afterwards up to 
January 2000  Mrs M was sold PPI policies which wouldve helped cover the repayments 
on the cards for up to 12 months at a time if she couldnt work. It also provided life cover for 
the outstanding balances.
Mrs M says the optional nature of the policies wasnt made clear and neither were the costs 
and benefits of the PPI. She says that she didnt need the two policies.
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. Mrs M disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs 
Ms complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Its not certain when the PPI was sold, but it seems most likely that it happened at the point 
at which Mrs M applied for the cards. Lloyds has provided a sample copy of the application 
form which it says would have been completed. I can see that it provides a clear choice 
about taking the PPI. I think its likely Mrs M selected PPI at this stage. Mrs M says it wasnt 
made clear that the PPI was optional. But she cant remember anything about the sale so I 
dont think I can rely on her evidence here.
On balance, I think its likely Mrs M bought the PPI knowing she had a choice about it, 
although its understandable if she doesnt remember this over a quarter of a century later. 
Its not clear whether Lloyds would have given Mrs M a personal recommendation to buy the 
PPI, so Ive looked at this case on the basis that it did, because it holds Lloyds to a higher 
standard. It means Lloyds should have taken reasonable steps to make sure the PPI was 
right for Mrs M. 
Looking at Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale I think the PPI was suitable for Mrs M. 
For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and 
she seems to have had a need for the cover. Mrs M had sick pay from her employer, but the 
policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than her full sick pay would have lasted. Similarly, the PPI would have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay, 
leaving any redundancy pay to cover other uninsured expenses. Mrs M didnt have any other 
means to meet her repayments
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Mrs Ms representatives have stated that Mrs M was sold two of the same policy and 
intimate this is evidence of mis-selling. Mrs Ms representatives have misunderstood the 
circumstances. Mrs M completed one application resulting in the provision of two credit 
cards  one Mastercard, one Visa. Each balance was covered by PPI. There was no 
duplication of cover.
So I dont think Mrs M lost out as a result of anything Lloyds mightve done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint so it follows that Lloyds Bank Plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman