DRN-2089267
The complaint
Ms R complains that TSB Bank plc delayed returning funds shed sent to it in error.
What happened
Ms R had a credit card account with TSB. On 23 September 2019 she made a payment from 
an account with a credit card provider (the payer bank) to her TSB account in error. She had 
meant to send the funds to a credit card account with a different bank (the intended payee 
bank).
Ms R realised that shed made an error. She says she contacted both TSB and the payer 
bank about this. She says she was pushed around between these two banks and felt stuck 
in the middle. She says she made over twenty phone calls, sent emails and visited both 
banks to try to get it sorted. She says shes also incurred interest with the intended payee 
bank that she shouldnt have to pay. 
She complained to TSB about what had happened. TSB investigated her complaint. It said it 
wasnt responsible for the payment not being sent to the intended payee. It said it couldnt 
return the money until it got a request from the payer bank. It didnt get that request until 22 
October 2019 and it had sent the money back on 24 October 2019. So, it didnt uphold her 
complaint.
Ms R wasnt satisfied with this response. She complained to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her complaint. She said TSB had dealt with the matter fairly. She thought TSB 
had done everything that it could do in the circumstances. It had told Ms R that the payer 
bank had to initiate the process to return the payment. Once it got the request TSB had 
returned the money to the payer bank within two days. So, she didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms R didnt agree. She said shed incurred significant costs as a result of the time it had 
taken to sort the matter out. She referred to the interest shed been charged when the 
intended payee bank hadnt received the funds. And she referred to the amount of time and 
effort shed spent trying to get it sorted out.
Because Ms R didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id just point out that in this decision Im only dealing with the complaint which 
Ms R has raised about TSBs actions after it received the funds in error. I know Ms R has 
raised other issues in relation to the payment. Those issues need to be dealt with separately.
There is no dispute that the problem in this case arose because Ms R made a mistake when 
she incorrectly asked for the funds to be sent to TSB instead of the intended payee bank.  
Mistakes of this nature can happen when entering the sort code and account number for an 
intended payee. This is recognised in the legislation which applies to electronic payments.
The legislation is set out in the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These state that where 
an incorrect sort code and account number has been entered then the payers bank must 
make reasonable efforts to recover the funds. There is also an obligation on the payees 
bank (in this case TSB) to co-operate with the payers bank in its efforts to return the funds. 
It is important to note that these obligations dont mean that it will always be possible to get 
the money back. And in those circumstances, the payer (in this case Ms R) will end up out of 
pocket. 
As TSB stated in its response to Ms R there are industry procedures to deal with payments 
which have been made by mistake. These procedures have been agreed between the banks 
and are known as the credit payment recovery process. This process is designed to assist 
banks to work together to comply with their obligations under the legislation. The procedures 
set out what each bank needs to do to help a customer when a mistake is made. 
So, I think its fair and reasonable for TSB to say that when a payment has been made into 
one of its accounts, by mistake, it will comply with its obligations by following the agreed 
industry procedures. Thats what wed expect it to do.
In this case Ive looked at what TSB has done  it is the payee bank. Its obligation is to co-
operate with the payers bank in its efforts to return the funds to the payer. Having looked at 
TSBs actions, I agree with our investigators view on this matter. TSB co-operated fully and 
quickly with the payer bank as soon as the payer bank sent it a request, under the industry 
procedures, to return the funds to it. The funds were returned within two days of the request 
from the payer bank.
Ive also considered whether TSB couldve done more to get the payer bank to initiate the 
process.
I can see that TSB correctly informed Ms R on 24 September, 29 September and again on 8 
October that she needed to ask the payer bank to initiate the correct procedure. I have noted 
that due to a misunderstanding about what had happened TSB incorrectly informed Ms R on 
30 September that TSB could complete the necessary form to start the payment recovery 
process. But, although TSB accepts this was an error on its part, I dont think it changes the 
overall position. 
Ive also considered whether TSB should simply have returned the funds when Ms R told it 
shed made a mistake. The account that the funds had been paid into was a credit card 
account. So, although Ms R couldve transferred the funds herself she may have incurred 
fees and charges. And, its also the case that, as soon as she informed TSB the funds had 
been paid into the account as a result of a mistake, it had to ensure that the funds were dealt 
with appropriately. So, I think it was fair and reasonable for TSB to wait until it received an 
instruction from the payer bank to return the funds to it.
I understand that as a result of what happened Ms R has been inconvenienced and shes 
incurred interest with the intended payee bank. I can appreciate how frustrating this must 
have been. But I dont think TSB did anything wrong here. And, having considered 
everything, Im satisfied it acted fairly and reasonably when it didnt send the funds back to 
the payer bank until it got the appropriate request under the credit payment recovery 
process.My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman