DRN-4118694
The complaint
Mr Js complaint is about a mortgage account with Nationwide Building Society. Mr J says 
that Nationwide incorrectly told him hed have to make a £34,000 overpayment on his 
mortgage in order to meet affordability requirements, and to bypass the need for a full 
application with income verification. He later found this wasnt correct. Mr J also says that 
the mortgage term was incorrectly reduced.
To settle the complaint Mr J wants Nationwide to refund his overpayment and issue a new 
mortgage offer for a higher loan amount.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
Secondly, Nationwide has acknowledged some errors were made, and so I dont need to 
analyse what happened in detail in order to decide if Nationwide is at fault. 
Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr J being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what 
happened quite brief.
The events giving rise to the complaint arise out of the unhappy situation of a marital 
breakup. Mr J and his former wife had a joint mortgage with Nationwide secured on their 
matrimonial home. The mortgage was taken out in August 2017 and was on a fixed rate of 
interest until 31 August 2022, and was over a term of 25 years. 
Briefly, from December 2021 onwards (when the mortgage balance was about £234,000 
over a remaining term of 20 years) Mr J applied for a Change of Borrower (COB) to remove 
his former wife from the mortgage. The application didnt go smoothly, and Nationwide has 
accepted it made errors. Mr J was told hed need to reduce the mortgage balance, but when 
he did, this resulted in a reduction in the mortgage term to 17 years, due to the way 
Nationwides system was set up.
Nationwide also incorrectly recorded information about Mr Js employment status, which 
resulted in him being wrongly classified as employed rather than self-employed.
Mr J thought that, by making the £34,000 payment, it would expedite the application. 
However, Nationwide still needed to carry out underwriting. Mr J was asked for additional 
information about his financial circumstances, which he wasnt happy about, because hed 
been told that this wouldnt be needed if hed made the lump sum payment. After considering 
the application, the mortgage offer was issued by Nationwide in March 2022.
Nationwide has since acknowledged that what Mr J had been told wasnt correct. Nationwide 
said that the mortgage representative shouldnt have told Mr J to make the lump sum 
payment; rather, it was the mortgage consultant who should have done this, after the 
application had been submitted and prior to completion. 
Nationwide said it wasnt possible to re-set the account back to its original term once it had 
been reduced and the application was pending. Nationwide then said it could arrange 
manually for the term to be re-set, but then said that if the COB completed on the shortened 
term, after completion the term could be set back to the original end date.
Nationwide said that it did need to assess affordability. Therefore, although errors had been 
made at the Decision in Principle (DIP) stage, this didnt override the need for Nationwides 
underwriters to ensure that the mortgage would be affordable.
Nationwide agreed with Mr J that it appeared that the application might not have been 
successful if the lump sum hadnt been paid, based on the online affordability calculators.
Nationwide also explained that it wasnt able to assess an application as if the £34,000 
hadnt been paid; instead this could be done if the overpayment was refunded. There was, 
however, no guarantee that an application for the higher amount would be agreed. 
Nationwide paid Mr J total compensation of £600, of which £200 was for inputting incorrect 
information at the DIP stage, and £300 for the issue concerning the £34,000 overpayment 
and a further £100 for inconvenience.
In May 2022 Mr J brought his complaint to our service. Mr J said he has suffered significant 
financial loss of tens of thousands of pounds in interest as a result of having made the 
overpayment, because his savings have consistently averaged growth of 9% per annum 
(which Mr J later amended to nearly10% per annum). Mr J said this is not offset by the 
reduced term on the mortgage. Mr J claimed that the interest he could have earned on the 
£34,000 would in ten years time easily have paid off the entire mortgage.
On 15 September 2022 the COB was completed. Because of the issues caused by the 
inadvertent re-setting of the mortgage term, Nationwide agreed to put in place a 1.99% 
five-year fixed rate product from 1 September 2022. 
An investigator looked at the complaint. He noted Nationwide had accepted its mistakes, and 
that the COB had now gone through with the term changed back to the original end date and 
the new product applied. However, he didnt think the redress paid was sufficient. 
The investigator thought the main issue was the overpayment of £34,000. He noted that 
Nationwide had offered to refund the £34,000, but that this would have required a fresh 
application, which he considered was not unreasonable, given that removal of one borrower 
would have affected affordability. Mr J clarified that he decided to go ahead with the 
mortgage offer issued in March 2022 for the lower amount, due to the time constraints.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that the application would have been approved without 
the capital reduction, and thought it might have been a necessity in any event. He also 
wasnt persuaded that Mr J had been earning the interest on the £34,000 that he claimed. 
Given this, he didnt think Nationwide was required to reimburse Mr J for the overpayment.
However, the investigator asked Nationwide to increase the compensation, by £100 per 
month for the ten months of delay in completing the COB (£1,000) plus a further £500 for distress and inconvenience, so a total of £1,500. The investigator said that Nationwide can 
remove the £300 theyve already sent him from this.
Neither Mr J nor Nationwide accepted the investigators findings. 
Mr J clarified that Nationwide had paid a total of £600 compensation. However, he said It 
seems clear from the various correspondence from Nationwide that at no point have they 
offered any compensation, or indeed a solution, aimed at fixing the situation Mr J wants to 
be put back in the situation hed have been in if Nationwide hadnt made any errors. He says 
the £600 will never cover the losses I face.
Nationwide said it didnt think any additional compensation was warranted, and pointed out 
that the £34,000 used to reduce the mortgage balance had, in fact, been a gift from Mr Js 
mother.
Provisional decision of 20 April 2023
I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following findings:
Where there is a change to an existing mortgage contract likely to affect affordability, 
Nationwide is entitled to consider whether or not that change will be affordable. This 
includes a situation where it is being asked to release one borrower from their 
covenants under the mortgage contract. 
Im satisfied that Mr J was told at too early a stage that hed need to make a capital 
reduction in order for the mortgage to be considered affordable. But the evidence 
doesnt persuade me that he was told that there would be no assessment of 
affordability if such a payment was made.
Nationwide gave Mr J the option of having the £34,000 returned to him but, correctly, 
explained that this would require a fresh application. I cant say if the application 
would have been approved if the capital reduction hadnt been made; its not my role 
to assess mortgage applications. However, based on the income shown on the 
application made in February 2022, I think its more likely than not that Nationwide 
would not have lent the full amount of the original mortgage balance before the 
capital reduction.
The reduction in the mortgage term as a result of the capital payment was triggered 
by the way the account was set up on Nationwides system, something that wasnt 
anticipated when the payment was made. I can see that this caused some delay and 
inconvenience whilst various ways of resolving the situation were looked into. I have 
no doubt this was frustrating and stressful for Mr J, particularly given the 
circumstances in which the need for the COB had arisen. Ive considered, therefore, 
whether the compensation already paid is sufficient. 
In relation to the £34,000 overpayment, I think the £300 paid for the incorrect 
information about this is sufficient. Mr J claims to have lost tens of thousands of 
pounds of interest, and said this sum was earning interest at the rate of about 10% 
per annum. Hes provided no evidence of this. 
Nationwide, however, has provided us with a copy of a gifted deposit form to show 
that the £34,000 was a gift from Mr Js mother. Mr J also confirmed in writing to 
Nationwide that the money was a gift from his mother. Given this, there is no basis on which I could fairly conclude that Mr J has lost 
interest on £34,000 of his own savings. It follows that I cannot fairly conclude that 
Nationwide should compensate Mr J for the loss of interest he is claiming. I think the 
£300 already paid is fair and reasonable.
I think that the £200 compensation offered for the error in keying information at the 
DIP stage is also fair. Although this resulted in Mr J incorrectly being classified as an 
employee, it didnt affect Nationwides regulatory obligation to ensure that the 
mortgage would be affordable. Im therefore not ordering Nationwide to do anything 
further in regard to this aspect of the complaint.
With regard to the incorrect term in the mortgage offer (arising from the capital 
repayment), I think that this caused some confusion and delay. Nationwide had told 
Mr J it would manually re-set the mortgage offer, but then didnt do this (because the 
staff member was away) and then said it couldnt do this. Overall, I dont think the 
£100 offered is sufficient for this. I think Nationwide should pay £300 for this (to 
include the £100 already paid, so an increase of £200).
This would bring the total compensation to £800.
Nationwide agreed to pay the additional compensation. Mr J had nothing further to add and 
said that he would also accept the decision, albeit reluctantly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file, and re-visited my provisional decision. Having done so, and as both 
parties have accepted the outcome, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached 
in my provisional decision.
I am therefore upholding the complaint, for the same reasons given in my provisional 
decision, which are set out above.
Putting things right
In addition to the compensation already paid of £600, Nationwide Building Society must pay 
additional compensation of £200, as detailed above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Nationwide Building Society to 
settle it as outlined above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman