DRN-1818992
The complaint
A complains about the interest rate on its loan being increased by HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC).
What happened
A is a business and is represented by a solicitor in bringing this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to all submissions as having been made by A directly.
A took a loan from HSBC in 2008. In 2017, HSBC sought to renegotiate the interest rate on 
the loan. It was agreed that the rate would increase by a margin of 0.25% each year, up to a 
maximum margin of 2.5%. HSBC says that this was all done in line with the terms and 
conditions of the loan. But A is unhappy with the situation and says it had no choice but to 
accept the new terms which were imposed on it by HSBC, because HSBC had threatened to 
end the loan facility. It says this amounted to economic duress.
A also says that HSBC breached the terms of the loan as follows:
A says the terms only enable HSBC to request a renegotiation of the interest rate. It 
says that HSBC cant compel A to renegotiate.
A says that its an implied term of the loan that HSBC will only seek to renegotiate the 
interest rate if there is a significant and detrimental change to As risk profile. It says 
there has been no such change.
A says HSBC is profiteering by raising the interest rate. HSBC says it was 
renegotiating the rate to market pricing levels. A says the terms dont allow HSBC to 
do that.
A says that HSBC hasnt negotiated in good faith.
For the reasons above, A says that the new loan arrangements are void. It wants the loan to 
return to its original interest rate and terms, and for HSBC to refund the interest it has paid 
over and above the original rate. But HSBC says it acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the loan and that the new arrangements are valid.
A raised its concerns with HSBC but remained unhappy with HSBCs response, so it asked 
this service to look into the situation. Our investigator didnt think HSBC needed to do 
anything here. But A didnt agree, so the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The parties have made detailed arguments, and Ive taken them all into account in order to 
reach my decision. But, in writing this decision, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key 
points. So, if I dont comment on a specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it into 
account. Its because I dont think I need to comment on it specifically here in order to set out 
my overall findings clearly and concisely.
requirement to renegotiate
A says that the terms of the loan are ambiguous and should be interpreted in its favour. It 
says the correct interpretation is that it had the right to refuse to renegotiate. A says it didnt 
agree to enter into the renegotiations and that HSBC couldnt insist that it did. 
Ive considered the relevant terms and I think its helpful to set them out here  I have added 
the emphasis:
(a) The Borrower and the Bank each has the right to request the other to renegotiate the 
terms and the conditions of the Loan (but not the Term), including those relating to the rate 
of interest and the Security, to take effect from the fifth and tenth anniversaries of the date of 
the drawdown of the Loan (each a Relevant Anniversary).
(b) The renegotiation may be initiated by:
(i) the Borrower, provided no Termination Event has occurred; or
(ii) the Bank,
giving written notice to the other requesting the renegotiation. The notice may be given not 
earlier than three months or later than one month before each Relevant Anniversary.
(c) Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower and the Bank shall in good faith renegotiate 
the terms and conditions of the Loan to take effect from the Relevant Anniversary.
I dont find these terms to be ambiguous. The parties have a choice over whether to initiate a 
renegotiation, and this can be done by either party. But, once one of the parties has initiated 
the process, both parties must renegotiate. There is no element of choice at that stage and 
the agreement of the party receiving the notice is not required.
So, once HSBC had given A notice, both parties had to renegotiate the terms. I dont find 
that A had the right to refuse.
reason for renegotiation
A says that its an implied term of the loan that HSBC will only seek to renegotiate the terms 
if there is a significant and detrimental change to As risk profile. A says that, as there had 
been no such change, HSBC wasnt entitled to request the renegotiation. I dont find that to 
be the case.
The terms dont limit either partys right to request a renegotiation, other than by specifying 
when they can do it. So a party can request a renegotiation for any reason.
The term A seeks to imply is very specific. I think such a requirement would have needed to 
be expressly included in the terms and conditions in order to take effect. I havent seen any 
evidence that the parties discussed this issue or intended to limit HSBCs ability to initiate a 
renegotiation in this way. And I think the clause  which gives either party the opportunity to 
renegotiate terms at given points during the term of the loan  makes sense without the term 
being implied. 
So I dont think the term is implied, and I find that HSBC was entitled to seek the 
renegotiation.
Profiteering / renegotiating to market pricing levelsThe terms allow the renegotiation of the interest rate. They dont place any limits on this or 
specify the purpose for which HSBC may renegotiate. So I find that HSBC was entitled to 
renegotiate the interest rate for any reason, including to bring it in line with market pricing 
levels.
A says that, by raising the interest rate, HSBC is profiteering. I dont find that to be the case. 
I havent seen anything which suggests HSBC acted unreasonably or unfairly here.
Good faith
The terms require both parties to renegotiate in good faith. A has referred to the fact that 
HSBC issued a formal demand for repayment and says this is an indication of bad faith. But 
HSBC was entitled to do this under the terms and conditions. And, in the circumstances 
here, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to do so. I havent seen anything which I think 
amounts to bad faith on the part of HSBC.
Economic duress
A says there were no negotiations between the parties because HSBC unfairly sought to 
impose a renegotiation which A didnt have to participate in. But, as I found above, HSBC 
was entitled to initiate the renegotiation. And, after that, both parties were obliged to 
renegotiate in good faith. If A chose not to participate in negotiations, I dont find that to be 
the fault of HSBC.
A says that, following receipt of HSBCs formal demand, it had no choice but to accept the 
new terms. But the arrangement which was ultimately agreed was proposed by A and 
accepted by HSBC. As to the timeframe for the renegotiation and any notices, these are 
dictated by the terms and conditions and Im satisfied that HSBC followed them here. 
So I dont find that A was placed under duress or that HSBC acted unfairly here. 
Conclusion
For the reasons above, I find that HSBC acted in line with the terms and conditions which A 
agreed to be bound by when taking the loan. And I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably or 
unfairly here. So Im not going to ask it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman