DRN-3738884
The complaint
Mr A complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank took duplicate
direct debit payments from him and they wont refund the excess payment.
What happened
Mr A has a Tesco credit card. He says that on several occasions in the past three years he
has missed a direct debit payment, but the missed payments have always been made within
two weeks of when the initial payment should have been made, so he has never been in
arrears.
Mr A says that on each occasion, with the following months direct debit, Tesco have then
taken the current months payment in addition to the previous months payment. He says
Tescos say this is because the following months statement is issued before he paid the
missed payment. When Mr A asked Tesco to refund the excess payment, they refused to do
so. Mr A complained to Tescos.
Tescos did not uphold Mr As complaint. They said there were four occasions where Mr A
had missed his direct debit due date between 7 February 2019-8 December 2021. They said
that as the statements had been produced before the minimum payments had been paid,
then this is why the minimum payment on the following statement included the missed
payment and the minimum payment for that statement period. Tescos said the payments
would not be classed as overpayments as he had an outstanding balance on his account.
Tesco said that as Mr A pays by direct debit, they can only collect the minimum payment
required at the time of the statement being produced, and no amendment can be made for
this. Tesco said that due to the method of payment, they were unable to repay the payments
back to him and suggested that he may want to try and recover the funds through a direct
debit indemnity (DDI), from his bank, but they added if he did do this then the outstanding
balance on his account would increase based on the payments being debited from his
account. Mr A brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr As complaint. He said that when a direct debit goes
unpaid, it will re-present itself at a later date to give customers another chance to cover their
payments. As per the agreement between Mr A and Tescos, he wouldve been required to
make these payments by a certain date each month to keep to the terms of his agreement.
Our investigator said that Mr A couldve requested to get his payment due date changed to
help cover these payments when there were sufficient funds in his account. Our investigator
said that Mr A had been able to make a DDI for £91.26 and suggested Mr A make a DDI
claim if he wished to recover the funds he considered he had paid as overpayments.
Mr A asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points, in
summary, he said that since he made his complaint, Tesco have done this twice more, and
he said Tesco could refund this money to him.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the enforcer for
the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts as an
informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. So I must be
clear to Mr A from the outset that Im unable to tell Tescos how to apply/refund payments on
a customers account, as this is a commercial decision for Tesco to make. But I will be
looking to see if they applied their process fairly for Mr A.
Mr A has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr A has that Tesco should simply refund the money
he has asked them to. But Mr As final response letter says unfortunately due to the method
of payment were unable to refund this back to you. So here, Tesco have explained that
because the money came from a direct debit, their systems are unable to process a refund
back to him. As I previously explained, our service cant instruct a business with what
procedures or systems they should have, so Ive looked at how they have tried to assist Mr A
in getting this money back to him.
In their final response, Tesco later go on to say that you may be able to cover these funds
by requesting a DD indemnity claim through the paying bank, however, I cant comment on
their policy or guarantee that they will recover these payments for you. So Im persuaded
that Tesco has offered Mr A assistance to help recover this money. While this might not be
Mr As preferred way of getting a refund, it is one way of potentially getting a refund. Im
aware that Mr A has successfully obtained money through a DDI claim, so he may wish to
try this route for the other amounts he feels he has overpaid.
Ive also considered what Mr A would have agreed to when he opened the account. Ive
looked at an example of a credit agreement which Tescos have provided our service. On
the credit agreement, there is a section which is titled How much do I pay each month.
Under section 2.1 it says You must always pay your 'minimum payment' each month by
your payment due date. But on four occasions between 7 February 2019-8 December 2021,
Mr A was unable to do so, therefore Ive looked if there is any wording about what happens
in this instance.
Section 2.2 states Your minimum payment will be the greater of: the total of all interest and
default fees charged on your statement plus 1% of the new balance shown on your
statement (excluding 'Tesco Buy Now Pay Later' special offers) plus any arrears carried over
from your previous statement. So as this shows that the minimum payment would include
any arrears carried over from the previous statement, then Im satisfied that Tesco have
acted in line with their credit agreement by setting the payment after the missed payment to
include the arrears from the previous statement.
Ive considered that Mr A on each occasion has paid the missed payment within two weeks
of originally missing the payment. But Tesco would not be aware if a re-presented direct
debit would collect the payment. So Im satisfied they had set out the current position of the
account at the time the statement was produced. As they had given notice to their customer
about how much the next minimum payment would be (and therefore the direct debit
amount), I would expect them to take the amount they had told the customer they would on
their statement.
I can see that after a missed payment, Tesco sent Mr A communication about the missedpayment. For example, when Mr A missed his payment due in December 2021, they sent
him a communication dated 9 December 2021. This shows his name and address, a
customer service helpline telephone number and his account number. The communication
explains that Mr A has missed his direct debit. The communication states that Weve
automatically arranged for the Direct Debit to be taken from your bank account again and, if
theres enough money in your account, we should receive your payment within 10 working
days. This means your payment will reach us after your payment due date. So, to avoid fees
and additional interest, you should make at least your minimum payment by another method
as soon as possible.
But then the communication goes on to say Once youve made the payment, you may want
to cancel your Direct Debit instruction this month so that you dont pay twice. So Im
satisfied that it was explained to Mr A that they would attempt to take his direct debit again
within 10 working days and that they explained that he could cancel his direct debit
instruction so that he wouldnt pay twice. But it appears that Mr A did not cancel his direct
debit payment and that is why Tesco took the amount they said they were going to take on
his statement.
There are a number of ways Mr A could pay his credit card if he had cancelled his direct
debit  and some of these may be more flexible for Mr A to consider if he receives money at
different times of the month and he is not always able to pay on the direct debit collection
date specifically. These are set out on Mr As credit card statement, so Mr A may wish to
look into these options as these may be better suited to him rather than a direct debit
payment. This would put him in control of when and how much he pays, but he would need
to ensure at least the minimum payment is paid by his due date.
Mr As statement says If you are unable to pay the minimum payment, please contact us
as soon as possible. So if he is struggling to pay the minimum payment he may wish to
contact Tesco before the payment due date to see what help they can offer. Or he may wish
to change the direct debit date if this is currently set at an inconvenient date for him. But for
the reasons Ive already given Im not persuaded Tesco have treated Mr A unfairly when he
had missed a payment by the payment due date. So it follows, I dont intend to ask Tesco to
do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Tesco did not respond to my provisional decision. Mr A responded to my 
provisional decision. He said he made an indemnity claim with his bank for all of the direct 
debits which Tesco had charged him twice, as both Tesco and our service suggested, but 
Tesco declined his request. He said he will be seeking legal advice and he would expect us 
to ask Tesco why they rejected something they had told him to do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr A has said about Tesco rejecting the direct debit indemnity and he 
thinks our service should ask Tesco why they rejected this, when both our service and Tesco 
have suggested he do this. But here, my powers only extend to investigating Mr As original 
complaint. As the direct indemnity rejection was not part of the complaint he originally raised 
(as this happened after he made his complaint to Tesco), I am unable to investigate this as 
part of the complaint he brought to our service. 
Mr A will need to raise a separate complaint with Tesco about this. This will allow Tesco to 
investigate Mr As complaint and issue their response to him about the merits of his new complaint point(s). If he is not happy with their response, then he will be able to bring the 
complaint to our service within six months of their final response.
Mr A has also mentioned he will be taking legal advice against Tesco. Mr A is free to do so 
of course, but I must let him know that we may be unable to look into his new complaint if it 
is subject to legal proceedings at the time he brings the complaint to our service. 
In summary, Mr As response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr A will be disappointed, but I hope 
he understands my reasons. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman