DRN-3768446
The complaint
Mr P complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial 
Services (BMW) initiated the repossession his car without providing him with sufficient notice 
or support.
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint and my initial findings were set out in my 
provisional decision which said:
In January 2021 Mr P acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with BMW. 
The purchase price of the car was £16,100. Mr P made an advanced payment of £1000 so 
the total amount financed on this agreement was £15,100 payable over 60 months.
Mr P said after falling into arrears on his agreement, and discussing his situation with BMW, 
they placed a default on his credit file and initiated the repossession of his car without giving 
him any notice. Mr P said he contacted BMW to discuss his repayments, but they hadnt 
responded in around three months. Mr P complained to BMW about the situation and said 
hed like to repay the arrears and keep his car.
On 31 January 2022 BMW issued their final response to Mr Ps complaint, which they didnt 
uphold. BMW said they corresponded with Mr P several times via email and letter throughout 
July to December of 2021 informing him of the arrears on his agreement. They also said 
they spoke to Mr P to discuss the repayment of the arrears, and so believe they acted fairly 
in initiating the default action.
Unhappy with BMWs decision Mr P brought his complaint to this service for investigation. In 
a phone call with our investigator in February 2022, Mr P said he made payments towards 
the agreement, and in March 2022 Mr P said his car was impounded by the police as he 
believed BMW had reported it as stolen. Mr P later advised the car was returned to him.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint. During a phone call between BMW 
and Mr P in December 2021, our investigator felt BMW should have done more to inform Mr 
P about the possible default action and repossession. So, our investigator recommended 
BMW reopen Mr Ps agreement and pay him £500 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Whilst Mr P accepted the investigators view, BMW disagreed that they hadnt provided 
enough information and so asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
I sent Mr P and BMW my provisional decision on 31 October 2022. I explained why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. The key parts of my provisional findings are copied
below:
In October 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) says that its necessary for a creditor to serve a 
default notice before they can become entitled to terminate the agreement, demand early 
payment or recover possession of any goods.
In their final response BMW said theyd sent a default notice to Mr P on 21 December 2021. 
This is also noted on their system notes. I acknowledge Mr P says he didnt receive many of 
BMWs letters including the default notice. However, having considered Mr Ps address is 
correct on the copy correspondence provided to us by BMW, Im satisfied BMW sent Mr P 
the arrears correspondence. Had Mr P not received some of BMWs correspondence, Im 
not persuaded this would have been a failure of BMWs.
BMW said Mr P was given 20 days notice to bring his agreement up to date. Under the CCA 
creditors must give at least 14 days notice before any action is taken in relation to a default 
notice. As the agreement was terminated on 18 January 2022, Im satisfied Mr P was given 
enough notice about BMWs intention to repossess his vehicle if the arrears on his 
agreement remained unpaid.
In December 2021, during a phone call with BMW, Mr P said he expected to have his 
account back on track by the end of January 2022. BMW asked Mr P if he wanted to arrange 
a repayment plan, but Mr P said he wanted to get his finances organised first. BMW then 
advised that automated letters would be sent to Mr P in the meantime.
Our investigator felt that during the phone call BMW should have done more to advise Mr P 
of the severity of the situation, and the potential outcome. However, Im satisfied on the 
whole that BMW provided Mr P with enough information and notice about the arrears on his 
agreement and the potential consequences of not repaying it or making any arrangements to 
repay it. Im satisfied that BMW provided Mr P with the opportunity to put things right.
Having listened to a recording of the phone calls, Im satisfied that BMW never advised Mr P 
to ignore any of their correspondence. Mr P received several arrears letters and a default 
letter, this was because he remained in arrears on his agreement. Mr P also didnt make any 
contact with BMW following the default notice. So, Im persuaded Mr P had enough 
information to know that his agreement was at risk of being terminated and his vehicle of 
being repossessed. 
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), which can be found within the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) handbook, says that a business must treat customers in default or in 
arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. CONC 7.3.5 provides some 
examples which include, suspending, reducing or waiving interest or charges, allowing 
payment deferrals or accepting token payments.
Mr P was unable to make his payments for July, September, November and December of 
2021 and in January 2022 when the agreement was terminated. The arrears letters, sent to 
Mr P by BMW, explained that Mr P should contact them as soon as possible to discuss 
repayments and provided advice on financial difficulties. Mr P spoke with BMW in August, October and December of 2021 to discuss his agreement. Im satisfied BMW demonstrated 
forbearance for example by offering Mr P a repayment plan. 
Mr P said hes unhappy with the impact this has had on his credit file. Im in agreement with 
our investigator that it appears the arrears on Mr Ps agreement would have been 
unavoidable in the circumstances, and BMW have a duty to report accurate payment 
information to credit reference agencies (CRA). During a phone call with Mr P in October 
2021 BMW advised that late payments could have an impact on his credit file. So, Im 
satisfied BMW havent acted unfairly in accurately reporting Mr Ps credit information to the 
CRAs.
I recognise Mr Ps strength of feeling about what has happened, Ive carefully thought about 
the circumstances of this complaint along with all the evidence provided including the further 
testimony from Mr P about how this situation has affected him. However, Im satisfied this is 
the fairest outcome in the circumstances.
I invited both parties to make any further comments. 
Mr P responded to say he didnt accept my provisional decision, and made some further 
comments which Ill address below.
BMW didnt respond to my provisional decision but made a revised offer to Mr P. BMW said 
if Mr P was to clear the default or allow repossession, theyd remove the default from his 
credit file.  
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made submissions in response to my provisional decision. I have considered all of 
what it has said. Ill address what I consider to be the main point Mr P has raised and explain 
why it doesnt change the outcome Ive reached.
Within his response Mr P focused on the treatment he received from BMW. Mr P said his 
main concern was about the conduct of BMW and how they treated him during a difficult 
period. Mr P believes BMW were in breach of the rules set by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and should have treated him as a vulnerable consumer.
This is a summary of what I considered to be the main point raised in Mr Ps response to my 
provisional decision. To be clear, Ive considered all the information provided by both parties 
in relation to this complaint, however, to maintain the informal approach of this service Ive 
focussed on what Ive considered to be the main issues here.
The FCA have set out 11 principles for business which are considered as fundamental 
obligations. The principles can be found within the FCA handbook. Mr P said he felt BMW 
were in breach of the FCA principles and guidance in relation to consumers in financial 
difficulties.  
Having reviewed the information provided by Mr P, I recognise Mr Ps strength of feeling 
about how BMW have treated him in the circumstances of this complaint. I also acknowledge 
Mr Ps personal circumstances and understand why having use of the car is important to 
him. However, from the evidence provided Im satisfied that BMW acted fairly.In my provisional decision I referred to the FCA rules which says how a business should 
treat consumers who are in arrears difficulties. And these rules are in consideration of 
principle six of the FCAs principles for business, which says that a firm must pay due regard 
to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
When Mr P fell into arrears difficulties in July 2021, BMW sent correspondence informing Mr 
P of the arrears on his account and provided statements which illustrated the current position 
of the agreement at each point. BMW spoke to Mr P in October 2021 to discuss his arrears, 
where Mr P explained he was waiting for some funds that would settle his account. BMW 
made further attempts to speak with Mr P and allowed him to make ad hoc payments. In a 
phone call made in December 2021 Mr P declined BMWs offer to set up a repayment plan 
to help with his arrears.
In addition, BMW have allowed Mr P to continue having use of the car after theyd 
terminated the agreement. In consideration of what the FCA says about how businesses 
should treat consumers who are in arears difficulties, Im satisfied that its reasonable to 
consider BMWs actions here as forbearance.
Although Mr P said he expected to have his finances in order within a few months, I think it 
would have been reasonable for him to arrange a repayment plan in the meantime. I also 
think it would have been reasonable for Mr P to contact BMW about the default notice he 
received. Particularly as he was never told to ignore any correspondence.
I acknowledge Mr P raised further concerns over BMWs integrity and intentions, for example 
with the matter of the car being reported as stolen. I also acknowledge Mr P has been in 
contact with the police about the situation involving the car being held by them; and that a 
separate complaint may be raised in relation to this. 
The incident surrounding the impounding of the car, or how its status was recorded is not 
part of this complaint and isnt something Ive considered. It seems to me this may be more 
of a police matter rather than a matter that falls under financial regulation. Having said that, I 
do hope Mr P and his family are able to reach some resolution and closure to what appears 
to have been a serious and unfortunate situation.
BMW have provided a recent statement of Mr Ps agreement which shows Mr P has 
continued to maintain his normal monthly repayments and has paid-up what the original 
arrears were on the account. However, as the agreement has been terminated, as confirmed 
by BMW on their system notes dated 18 January 2022, and in their final response, theyve 
taken the outstanding balance as arrears, which in November 2022 was recorded as 
£12,820.44.  
In an email to our investigator dated 22 November 2022, BMW made an offer to Mr P to 
have the default removed from his credit file, on the proviso that the default amount is 
satisfied or they repossess the car to settle the outstanding balance. 
In the circumstances, I leave it to both parties to decide if on reflection they can reach a 
suitable arrangement for Mr P to settle the outstanding balance in a reasonable timeframe, 
so Mr P can retain the car and have the default information removed from his credit file. 
However, as Ive found that BMW have acted fairly in the circumstances of this complaint, I 
wont be asking them to reinstate the agreement. 
I still consider my provisional decision to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Neither party has added anything which gives me cause to change these. Therefore, for the reasons as set out above and in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that BMW acted fairly 
when they terminated Mr Ps agreement. So, my final decision is the same. 
I recognise that this decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr P, however I can assure him 
that Ive considered all the evidence provided and believe on balance that my provisional 
findings are fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as ALPHERA Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman