DRN-4471904
The complaint
Mr J and Ms D complain about how Coventry Building Society is managing their offset 
mortgage. They said that although their mortgage is fully offset, Coventry continues to take 
occasional payments, without warning, and had recently taken a large sum.
What happened
Mr J and Ms D told us they took out an interest only offset mortgage with Coventry in 
December 2020. By early 2021 they had paid enough into the linked savings account for 
their mortgage balance to be more than fully offset. So they werent expecting to have to 
make any monthly mortgage payments. But they said during 2022, several small direct 
debits were taken, and in January 2023 a much larger sum was taken, of £612.36.
Mr J and Ms D didnt think it was right for a mortgage which was supposed to be fully offset,
to still charge interest. They said this directly contradicted Coventrys literature, which says
".... We only charge you interest on the difference between your mortgage and your savings
balance.... They also said that sometimes Coventry wasnt crediting them with interest until
two months later, which must also be costing them extra interest.
Mr J and Ms D wanted Coventry to refund all the interest it had charged them while the
mortgage was fully offset, and any additional interest it had only charged because they
werent credited with savings interest until two months later.
Coventry said it hadnt sold this mortgage to Mr J and Ms D. They had taken this mortgage
out on the advice of a broker. So Coventry said it would have expected that broker to explain
to Mr J and Ms D how this mortgage worked.
And Coventry said this mortgage was working the way it would expect. It explained to Mr J
and Ms D that an offset mortgage has two parts - the mortgage account, and a linked
savings account. Each month, the savings account earns interest, and at the start of the
following month, the interest (which Coventry calls benefit) earned on those savings is
used, first, to pay off the monthly payments due on the mortgage account.
Although interest is usually earned on the savings account at the same rate as its charged
on the mortgage account, because the interest is earned and charged on different months,
the amounts arent always the same. So a mortgage payment is needed in months when the
interest rate rises, or when the previous month (when interest was earned) had fewer days
than the month interest is being charged on.
Conversely, when the previous month has more days than the month interest is being
charged on, there can be a little of the interest (or benefit) left over. When that happens,
Coventry uses that to reduce the balance owed on their mortgage.
Coventry said that Mr J and Ms D had previously been paying their mortgage payment early
in the month, and that meant Coventry didnt have enough time to base their direct debit on
the previous months earned interest. In that situation, it had to base the direct debit on the
interest earned the month before. Coventry said it had now amended the direct debit date for
Mr J and Ms D, so this wouldnt be a problem in future.
And Coventry said that the large payment taken in January 2023 happened when Mr J and
Ms Ds fixed interest rate ended on 31 December 2022. So they started to pay Coventrys
Standard Variable Rate. This meant their interest rate rose quite sharply, from 1.87% to
5.34%. The offset interest earned on the savings was based on their previous rate of 1.87%,
but the interest charged on their borrowing was based on the new rate of 5.34%. So thats
why Coventry claimed a direct debit payment of £612.36 on 4 January 2023.
Coventry said if interest rates go down in future, then the opposite would happen. As when a
shorter month follows a longer one, no direct debit would be charged, and Coventry would
use the excess amount of interest earned to reduce the balance of their mortgage.
Coventry didnt think it had done anything wrong. It had written to Mr J and Ms D twice, the
first time to explain how their offset mortgage worked, and the second time, it had responded
to their complaint, explaining again, but this time also saying it had changed the date of their
direct debit to later in the month.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said hed read the guide to
how the offsetting mortgage worked, and he also thought this mortgage was operating in line
with that guide. He set out in some detail for Mr J and Ms D how their offset mortgage would
work. And he said it was their brokers responsibility to explain to Mr J and Ms D how the
mortgage worked before they took out this mortgage, not Coventrys.
Our investigator explained that interest accrued on the savings held to offset the mortgage
was paid one month in arrears. That explained why Mr J and Ms D had been charged in
January, when their interest rate went up. Our investigator also said he could see Coventry
had explained why it used to use the interest from two months previously to cover the
monthly payments, as well as why it changed Mr J and Ms Ds payment date so this didnt
happen in future.
Our investigator said, unfortunately, as Mr J and Ms D had found, it wasnt always possible
to completely offset and avoid making any payments at all towards a mortgage, due to the
differing number of days in a month and the impact of changes in interest rates. But he didnt
think Coventry was doing anything wrong.
Mr J replied to disagree. He said Coventry had repeatedly used the phrase ".... we only
charge interest on the difference between your offset savings balance and the mortgage
amount in its guide to the offset mortgage but also on other communications like his annual 
mortgage statement. That gave the misleading impression that interest will not be charged
while a mortgage is fully offset.
Mr J felt that the underlying way in which this mortgage operated was unfair, because he
was being charged interest on a mortgage account which was more than fully offset. And he
said it wasnt a justification just to say other lenders did the same.
Mr J didnt think our investigator had looked at the impact of crediting interest only from two
months previously, not one month. He said that only seemed to operate in Coventrys favour,
and if Coventry could have fixed this, it should have done so a year ago, when he first
contacted it about this mortgage.
Mr J said he wasnt told about the direct debit payment of £612.36 before it was taken in
January 2023. He could have fixed a new rate, or even paid the mortgage off entirely, if hed
known this payment was going to be taken. Mr J said that direct debits had been taken again
in February and March 2023, and he couldnt see how these had been worked out.Mr J also said hed had no notice of changes in interest rates, although hes since asked to
withdraw this point.
Our investigator wrote again, to say that the guide to offset mortgages needed to be read in
full to understand how a mortgage like this one works. He said that just relying on one
sentence wouldnt give a true reflection of how the account operates.
Our investigator said Mr J would be able to see that, in fact, his mortgage balance was going
down slightly over time, although it was a repayment mortgage. That reduction in his balance
was greater, on his 2022 statement, than the direct debit payments hed made that year.
Our investigator said what Mr J was complaining about was, in essence, how an offset
mortgage works. Applying interest two months after it was earned wouldnt always work in
Coventrys favour  if interest rates decrease, then the benefit wouldnt have reduced for two
months. But this wasnt an issue now Mr J and Ms D had changed their payment date.
Our investigator said Coventry had told Mr J and Ms D about the changes in their interest
rate which resulted in the January direct debit being claimed. And he said Coventry hadnt
profited, as that payment had reduced the capital balance on the mortgage. Mr J and Ms D
had then been asked for small payments in each of the following two months, because their
mortgage interest rate had increased slightly during those months.
Our investigator reiterated that he didnt think Coventry had done anything wrong.
Mr J still disagreed. Aside from the point hed asked to withdraw, he said he was dissatisfied
with our services response. In particular he was unconvinced by our investigators
suggestion that Coventry was effectively using his interest payments to reduce his capital
debt. He said it seemed illogical, and he couldnt see that explained in the literature. And he
said he had no practical way of checking, as he only gets annual statements.
Mr J said he wanted this complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it came to me for a
final decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
I will arrange for Mr J and Ms D to be sent the short table that Coventry has sent our 
service, showing how their payments have been applied in early 2023. Although their 
balance does fluctuate, as one would expect, I dont think theres any suggestion that 
their mortgage balance is being increased, as they have claimed.
As Coventrys guide explains, Mr J and Ms D have two accounts. They have a mortgage
account, with a debt on which interest is charged. And they have a savings account, 
which earns interest at the same rate which is charged on their mortgage that month.
Mr J says he shouldnt be paying any interest, because he doesnt owe Coventry any
money. But he does  he and Ms D together owe it over £200,000.
Mr J and Ms D also happen to have the same amount in a separate account, as 
savings. But the existence of a large savings lump sum doesnt change the fact that Mr 
J and Ms D still have a debt to Coventry. The debt and savings are still separate amounts. And Mr J and Ms D are under no obligation to keep their savings in the linked 
account.
Placing their savings in an offset account means Mr J and Ms D often dont have to 
make mortgage payments. And when they do, those payments arent anywhere near as 
large as they would otherwise be.
But this debt and savings are still separate amounts. So if Mr J and Ms D want to move 
their savings elsewhere, or simply spend them, they have the option to do so. That is
considerably more flexible than applying for fresh mortgage lending.
Usually, Mr J and Ms D wont need to pay much towards their mortgage, if anything. But
sometimes they will need to make a payment. So, even if Mr J and Ms Ds mortgage is 
fully offset, they still need to have a direct debit in place.
Thats because of how this arrangement works. What Coventry is doing, is to take the
savings interest that Mr J and Ms D earned during the previous month, and use it 
towards the payment of mortgage interest that they are about to be charged for the 
following month.
I know that Mr J and Ms D take the view that much of the publicity Coventry has 
produced is misleading. Ill return to this point below. But before I look at that, I wanted 
to confirm that I do think their account overall is working in the way that Coventry 
intended, and in the way it has explained in the guide to their mortgage which Ive seen.
I dont know if Mr J and Ms D had understood how this mortgage works, before they 
took out the lending. But, as Coventry has pointed out, it didnt provide Mr J and Ms D 
with any mortgage advice. They took out this mortgage with the support of a broker, and 
I would have expected that broker to advise them on this, if they werent clear on how it 
might work.
Mr J and Ms D said they didnt know when Coventry was going to ask them to make a
payment. And if they had known, before the January direct debit, they could have re-
fixed the interest rate on their mortgage, or might even have paid it off.
The direct debit guarantee says this 
If there are any changes to the amount, date or frequency of your Direct Debit the
organisation will notify you (normally 10 working days) in advance of your account
being debited or as otherwise agreed.
That usually means banks tell customers before their monthly payment changes. 
However, the guarantee itself says that customers and banks can agree something 
different, between them. And in this case, Coventry has been able to show that its 
original mortgage offer to Mr J and Ms D contained the following, in reference to the 
option to reduce monthly mortgage payments 
If you take advantage of [the option to make your monthly payment less than it would
have been] you agree that under the Direct Debit Scheme we need not give you
Advance Notice of the amount of each reduced payment.
So I do think Mr J and Ms D have agreed to waive the usual notice of a change in 
upcoming direct debit payments. Coventry has told us it does inform Mr J and Ms D of 
any change in the underlying interest charged on their mortgage account each month. 
But it doesnt tell them each month how much of that will be paid by the interest from their offset savings. I do think thats in line with what Mr J and Ms D were offered 
originally, and agreed to.
There is one thing I wanted to clarify from our investigators view. He suggested that the
interest payments Mr J and Ms D were making, were being used to reduce their 
balance. And I dont think thats right. I think those payments are being used to pay 
interest charged on the mortgage debt which the previous months savings interest (or 
benefit) isnt enough to cover. But, as Ive explained above, in months with fewer days 
than the preceding month, or months after an interest rate reduction, there is likely to be 
a surplus. And when there is a surplus, Coventry is deducting that from Mr J and Ms Ds 
overall debt.
I want to turn, finally, to where I think this complaint may have started, with the wording
Coventry uses in its annual statements, and elsewhere, to describe this mortgage. Mr J 
has repeatedly quoted Coventry as saying We only charge you interest on the 
difference between your mortgage and your savings balance. And I can see that 
Coventry does say that, in a number of places. It also makes similar statements, like this 
one We will charge interest as if the balance of advances (including any further 
advances) owed on your mortgage was reduced by the amount in your Offset Savings 
Account at the time.
I do think thats unhelpful when taken in isolation, as this describes a very simple and 
clear mortgage arrangement, which, in my view, doesnt fit well with what Coventry is 
actually doing with Mr J and Ms Ds mortgage.
Sometimes, as in the offset mortgage guide, this phrase is accompanied by a fuller
explanation of how this mortgage actually works. In other places, Coventry signposts
customers to that guide, or to the full terms of the mortgage. But in other places, like the
annual statement, Coventry simply states the above.
And I think thats what has caused the confusion in this case. Because the above quite 
short and simple explanation would, I think reasonably, lead Mr J and Ms D to think that 
they oughtnt to be paying any interest at all on their mortgage when its fully offset. And 
as Ive explained, I dont think thats how this mortgage was ever intended to work.
I think this has caused Mr J and Ms D a great deal of concern. Its left them thinking that
Coventry was making very serious mistakes in the operation of their mortgage. Although 
I can see that Coventry did respond to Mr J and Ms Ds complaint, and explain how their
mortgage worked, that didnt deal with Mr Js concerns, which do seem to me to centre 
on how different Coventrys fuller explanation is, to the short phrase Ive quoted above. 
So Mr J and Ms D have been put to quite some trouble, in making this complaint, to get 
the reassurance that Coventry isnt wrongly administering their accounts. Because of 
that, I do think Coventry should pay some compensation in this case.
I have discussed this concern with Coventry, and whilst it doesnt agree that it has 
steered Mr J and Ms D in the wrong direction, it said it did recognise their loyalty to the 
Society, so it has now offered to pay Mr J and Ms D £500 to address their 
disappointment in how their mortgage is working.
My provisional decision is that this would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this
complaint. And because this award was suggested by Coventry, Id like to reassure Mr J 
and Ms D that this amount is not less than I would otherwise have awarded in this case, 
if Coventry hadnt made this offer.I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Coventry wrote to confirm it had received my provisional decision. It said it had nothing 
further to add. Mr J and Ms D also replied, to say they had no further submissions. They 
wanted to accept the proposed award, which they thought would provide a reasonable 
outcome to their complaint. And they closed by thanking our service for its work on their 
complaint. 
So neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my 
mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Coventry Building Society must pay Mr J and Ms D £500 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman