DRN-2701252
The complaint
W, a community interest company, is unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled 
a fire claim under its commercial combined insurance policy.
What happened
On 9 December 2019 W made a claim to Aviva after a fire damaged part of its building which 
was let to a childrens nursery.
Aviva accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster. The loss adjuster visited the 
property in mid-December. It also appointed a contractor to repair the damage. Work started 
in January 2020 and was largely finished by the end of March.
W had its own electrician redo some of the electrical work after two fuse connection units 
burned out. Avivas contractor paid for that.
W wasnt happy with the way the claim was handled, delays and the quality of the work. It 
said some of the electrical work carried out by Avivas contractor was unsafe. It complained 
that the cost of the repair was excessive, leading to a huge increase in its premium.
Aviva didnt accept that thered been unnecessary delays. It said its contractor had worked 
hard to resolve the electrical issues. It also said the cost of the claim reflected the 
pre-agreed scope of works and no additional works had been charged. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the repair of the damage took longer than W expected. The Christmas period 
might well have set things back two weeks. However a scope of work was drawn up in early 
January and work started not long afterwards. Having looked at the scope of works, I dont 
think there were any particular delays on Avivas part.
When considering how a claim was handled, I look at what went wrong and what steps the 
business took to put things right. W did have legitimate concerns about the electrical work 
particularly after two electrical units fitted by Avivas contractor burned out. Ive considered 
Avivas response and can see it took this extremely seriously. It carried out an investigation 
involving its health and safety expert. It also asked for all the electrical work to be checked 
by an independent external electrician at the contractors cost. I think this was a reasonable 
response in the circumstances.
Its generally accepted that insurers will often take into account the cost of a previous claim 
when calculating the premium. So I can understand it being of concern to W that its claim 
cost might have been higher due to the failings of Avivas contractor than would have 
otherwise been the case. But I can see that wasnt the case here.
Aviva has explained that all its contractors work on pre-agreed rates. So the scope of works 
determined the end cost. Neither the extra time taken by the contractor to carry out snagging 
works nor the amount paid by its contractor to electricians to put right and/or check the 
electrical work actually increased the cost of the claim to Aviva. So I dont think Aviva is 
responsible for Ws increased premium costs.
I appreciate that one director of W was heavily involved in the claim and in particular, sorting 
out the problem with the electrical work. As our investigator explained, a limited company is 
a separate legal entity from the people who run it. We cant compensate the directors 
personally for any trouble and upset theyve suffered. But even if that were not the case, Im 
satisfied that Avivas apology would have been sufficient in any event.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman