DRN-2497460
The complaint
Mr H complains about call handling by Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich)
What happened
Mr H said that in early January he tried to call Zurich. He called four times but couldnt get 
through either because Zurich terminated the call or the person answering said they couldnt 
hear Mr H, even though he could hear them perfectly. When he called again, he was told this 
was a known issue if headsets are not connected properly. He was frustrated that a known 
issue was allowed to persist, and that the call handler didnt check her headset after the first 
problem. The call handler said she would call back but didnt. He was put to the expense of 
multiple calls and said his complaint was not handled well and he was talked over when he 
complained. He wanted an apology and a goodwill gesture for the inconvenience caused 
and for Zurich to address its internal issues to ensure good service going forward.
Zurich didnt agree with the cause of the problem but apologised and offered a payment of 
£150, £50 to cover call costs and £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
The investigator thought the offer from Zurich was fair and in line with what this service 
would expect to be paid.
Mr H didnt agree. He said that the investigator had made a number of assumptions about 
his complaint. In particular that, the multiple, unheard calls were answered and handled by 
the same operative. He said this was unknown  it could have been one person or four 
separate operatives. That meant it wasnt possible to base her outcome on one persons 
human error. He also thought the response from Zurich was misleading, contradictory and 
false and this hadnt been considered in the investigators view. He felt this showed Zurich 
had not taken his complaint seriously. He didnt think they had conducted any degree of an 
investigation and were as a matter of course misleading their customers by default. 
When asked to provide specific details Mr H said he felt the complaint was clearly 
documented but there were several key elements in the review and escalating failings by 
Zurich which are not in either their own or the publics interest. He felt this service was 
accepting Zurichs position by default and this didnt demonstrate the independence of this 
service. He referred to the papers already submitted to this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should be clear that I have reviewed all the papers submitted to this service in 
considering this complaint. This service cannot tell Zurich how to run its internal business 
operations nor direct it to investigate or remedy the telephone problems whether caused by 
a known or unknown issue, even if this is bad for its service to him and the public more 
broadly. So, I will not be directing Zurich how to prevent a recurrence. I can however 
consider the impact of the problem on Mr H. 
Where a mistake is made this service can make an award for any financial loss and if 
appropriate for distress and inconvenience.
In terms of financial loss Mr H has said he had to make multiple calls which meant he 
incurred expense. I can see that Zurich has offered a payment of £50 for this. Mr H has not 
suggested that his call costs have exceeded this amount. So there is no need to make any 
further award for financial loss.
I have considered whether to make an award for distress and inconvenience. Such an award 
is made to reflect the impact on Mr H not to punish Zurich. 
I can see that the need to make multiple calls was frustrating especially as Mr H could hear 
but apparently couldnt be heard, that he was given conflicting explanation as to the cause of 
the problem and at times felt the Zurich was not listening to him in a professional manner. 
He is also frustrated that the problem may recur. Zurich offered to pay £100 for this and has 
apologised. I note the problem persisted for a relatively short period of time on one day. I 
therefore think £100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and exceeds the amount 
that I wouldve proposed to award for distress and inconvenience had Zurich not made an 
offer.
So while I agree that Mr H had reason to complain, I dont think Zurich need to take any 
further action.
My final decision
I think Zurich has made a fair offer and doesnt need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman