DRN-3362779
The complaint
Ms S complains that Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Allianz Legal Protection (Allianz) has 
unfairly declined her legal expenses insurance claim. 
What happened
Ms S has a legal expenses insurance policy underwritten by Allianz. For ease, any 
reference to Allianz includes the actions of its agents. 
The policy provides cover for the cost of taking legal action or obtaining legal advice 
and began on 18 July 2020. 
Prior to this in March 2020, Ms S started work at a new employer. 
Ms S said her employer failed to make reasonable adjustments from the start of 
employment, even though it had been made aware of her disability. 
Ms S has provided a diary of events from April 2020 onwards that she says shows 
she experienced inappropriate behaviours from her manager. 
This  along with her employers failure to make reasonable adjustments  led to a 
grievance being raised in September 2020. 
A second grievance was raised in March 2021, as was an appeal against the 
outcome of the first. 
Around this time Ms S sought legal advice from a solicitor. Ms S subsequently 
contacted Allianz to pursue legal action against her employer for claims regarding 
reasonable adjustments and victimisation.
Allianz declined Ms S claim on the basis the insured event occurred before the start 
of the policy. It said all the issues were inextricably linked and would not have arisen 
but for the alleged failure of Ms S employer to make reasonable adjustments. 
Ms S disagreed and brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded the difficulties Ms S experienced upon joining her 
employer were entirely unrelated to the legal claims she later sought to make.  And 
so, she thought Allianz had acted fairly by declining the claim.
Ms S remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken in to account the requirements set by the Regulator, which include that 
insurers must deal with claims promptly and fairly and not unreasonably reject a claim. 
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is whether the insured event occurred before the policy started. 
The starting point is the policy document which sets out the terms of the contract between 
Allianz and Ms S. 
The policy terms say it will not cover any claim where the date of the event is before the 
date of inception of [the] policy.  The policy defines date of event as the date of any event 
which may lead to a claim. Where there is more than one such event, the date of the first of 
these. In other words, the first event in a series of events - which may lead to a claim - must 
happen in the policy period. So, Im satisfied there isnt any ambiguity about when the date 
of the event needs to have happened. 
Allianz says the insured event pre-dates the policy start date because the legal claims 
raised by Ms S relate to events which can be traced back to before the policy started. It says 
Ms S legal claims relate to her employers failure to make reasonable adjustments in March 
2020  which was before the policy was taken out. 
Ms S refutes this and says she wasnt intending to take legal action at that time, and so 
doesnt think its reasonable for Allianz to decline her claim on this basis. But whats key here 
is not whether Ms S knew there would definitely be legal action, rather that she reasonably 
shouldve known there was a dispute which may lead to a legal claim. 
To determine whether Ms S knew there was something which may lead to a legal dispute 
Ive looked at the very detailed work diary she submitted as part of her claim. Of note is that 
the diary evidences the difficulties she experienced with her employer dating back to the 
start of her employment in March 2020  and theres comprehensive information regarding 
the problems she faced during the period March to July 2020. 
I note that in an entry from April 2020 Ms S mentions feeling bullied by her manager. Theres 
also a section titled disability discrimination and lack of reasonable adjustments with 
regards to an entry of 8 July 2020. Here, she explains the impact of her managers actions 
related to her disability and inappropriate comments. 
The fact disability discrimination and lack of reasonable adjustments is mentioned in her 
work diary persuades me that Ms S considered it to be information which is pertinent to her 
claim. I dont think its reasonable to say it was included as background information  it has 
instead been included because it shows the duration of the difficulties Ms S experienced. 
And work diaries of these nature describing such events are often used by employment 
tribunals within these types of disputes.
Im also not persuaded the problems Ms S experienced with her employer can be said to 
have concluded prior to the start of the policy and that anything which occurred after could 
be considered new. I am instead more persuaded that theyre directly linked to the legal 
claim she sought to make  as explained above. This series of events ultimately led to Ms S 
raising grievances and a subsequent legal claim.  And because these events can be traced 
back to before the policy started, Im satisfied Allianz has acted in accordance with its terms 
and conditions in declining the claim.
Theres been some back and forth about when Ms S notified Allianz. But given this doesnt 
change the outcome of this complaint, I wont discuss it further. 
Its not clear if Ms S had legal expenses cover in place with another insurer prior to this 
policy commencing. If she did, she might want to consider contacting that insurer
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman