DRN-2841698
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs S complain that U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance  
(Churchill) has unfairly refused to meet a claim they made for food ruined whilst they were 
away from home. 
What happened
 Mr and Mrs S were abroad when they were told by their children that a power failure/fault at 
their home meant a large quantity of food in freezers had spoiled. That was in September 
2020. In October, having returned home, they realised they might be able to claim for the 
spoiled food and contacted Churchill. They told Churchill theyd lost nearly £4,700 worth of 
frozen food and explained theyd been panic buying before they went away because of the 
covid pandemic.
Churchill agreed to look at the claim, but eventually said it thought Mr and Mrs S hadnt 
proved theyd owned the amount of food theyd claimed for  which it thought was many 
times more than the amount people normally have in their freezers.
Mr and Mrs S acknowledged that theyd mistakenly included some of the evidence twice  
but said this still meant they had over £3,000 of food spoiled. They sent photos of receipts 
showing how much theyd spent since returning from holiday  and bank receipts for earlier 
food shops. They explained also that their family culture means they provide meals on a 
regular basis to their family even if they no longer live at home  and they always had more 
food than other families, even if they werent panic buying.
Churchill didnt accept this, and said Mr and Mrs S hadnt proved they had enough food in 
their freezers to trigger a payment  thats more than £250 worth. 
Mr and Mrs S complained, but Churchill wouldnt meet the claim, so they asked this service 
to look at the complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs S had shown they owned a number of freezers and that 
they regularly spent well above average on food. She accepted the argument that Mr and 
Mrs S provided food for more than just themselves on a regular basis  and noted theyd 
spent €690 (about £590) on replacing meat for the freezer, bringing it back from holiday with 
them. She also thought a substantial amount of Mr and Mrs Ss weekly shop was food that 
could be frozen. She concluded that Churchill should settle the claim by paying £800.
Neither Churchill nor Mr and Mrs S accept this. Churchill doesnt want to pay out any money 
at all, and Mr and Mrs S say £800 is not enough  although they would accept £1,500, which 
is half the amount they claimed for.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to comment on every point thats been made by either party. Instead Ill 
concentrate on what I think are the two main issues here  have Mr and Mrs S done enough 
to show they lost a substantial amount of food, and if they have, is the £800 recommended 
by our investigator a fair way to settle the claim.
The claim
To make a valid claim, Mr and Mrs S have to first show that something theyre insured for 
has happened. They say their children rang them on holiday to say that theyd visited the 
house and realised a fault had occurred  which meant their four freezers were off and the 
contents spoiled. Having checked Mr and Mrs Ss policy I can see this is something theyre 
insured against  and Churchill doesnt dispute this.
For Churchill to then say it wont meet a claim, the onus is on it to show that one of the 
exclusions or conditions in the policy apply. In this claim, Churchill says Mr and Mrs S 
havent shown conclusively that they owned the amount of food they claimed for. Its also 
pointed out some inconsistencies in the amount claimed and the evidence provided. Again 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions and they say that Mr and Mrs S must give Churchill 
proof of ownership of the items claimed for. They also say Churchill need not meet a claim 
they believe to be exaggerated in any way.
These are the arguments Churchill has made to support its position:
That bank statements showed expenditure of just over £3,000  not the £4688.45 Mr 
and Mrs S initially claimed for. Churchill also says Mr and Mrs S submitted the same 
statement twice with different items highlighted and were inflating their claim. Mr and 
Mrs S say that could have happened  but if so, it was a mistake. I think thats 
reasonable  mistakes do happen and Mr and Mrs S havent insisted theyre correct.
That Mr S used to run a food-based business  and it thinks that business might 
have failed, leaving him with a large amount of business stock. It thinks Mr and Mrs S 
have included this in their claim, even though losses connected to a business arent 
covered. Churchill hasnt provided any evidence to support this position other than 
that Mr S was a director when he and Mrs S first bought their policy. Churchill also 
knows that Mr S resigned as director of the business about 15 months before the 
claim. I havent seen anything that persuades me leftover food from the business is 
included in the claim.
That Mr and Mrs S went away for a month  so stocking their freezers before this 
would simply have left them with out of date food. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest thats the case, and its commonly accepted that frozen food keeps for 
several months, so Im not giving this argument any weight. 
That bank statement entries for supermarket shops dont prove that expenditure was 
only on food. I agree with that point, but Mr and Mrs S have sent in receipts for later 
months that show they normally spend about £700 a month on food. And theyve also 
sent in photos to show they do buy food in bulk  both frozen and non-perishable 
items that could make their way into pre-prepared frozen meals. I think Mr and Mrs S 
have shown they do spend substantially more than the average family on food. I also 
think that their explanation of why they bought a lot of food before they went away is 
reasonable  and that their national culture of feeding the wider family is generally 
well known.
That photos of bin bags dont show that they contained food or the potential value of 
that food. I agree with that point  but I can also understand that the family members 
disposing of the thawed food might well not have wanted to open the bags  nor 
realised they needed to take photos of the food itself.That there was little point in looking for cctv recordings from the tip  as these would 
only show bags being disposed of, not the contents. And theres also little point in 
visiting Mr and Mrs S at home, given the freezers would have been emptied. I think 
both of those comments are reasonable  but I also dont think either of these points 
affect my decision.
Mr and Mrs S have shown us that they do spend more than the average family on food each 
week. And theyve also sent photos of both the replenished freezers and other foodstuff 
which supports their argument that they buy in bulk.
I think Mr and Mrs S have done enough to show they would have had a substantial amount 
of frozen food. So I think Churchill should settle the claim fairly.
Putting things right
I cant say overall that Mr and Mrs S have shown they held over £3,000 of food in the 
freezers  so I need to consider what a fair resolution to the complaint could be. Our 
investigator suggested Churchill settle the claim by paying £800  which is the equivalent of 
£1050 of food once the £250 excess is taken into account. So shes estimated the payment 
based on about one third of the amount claimed for. I think, taking everything into account, 
thats a fair resolution to this complaint. I accept Mr and Mrs S would like more, but without 
better evidence I cant ask Churchill to pay more than this.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require U K Insurance Limited trading as 
Churchill Insurance to pay Mr and Mrs S £800 to settle this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman