DRN-3372537
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat Financial 
Services (VWFS) recorded arrears with the Credit Reference Agencies (CRA) relating to 
the hire purchase agreement he had with them.
What happened
On 22 March 2020 Mr J was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS. He paid an advance payment of £30.42 and the agreement was for £29,540.28; 
with 48 monthly payments of £445.67 and an optional final payment of £13,297.50 if he 
wanted to keep the car. 
Mr Js income was affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, and he didnt make the 
payments for May or June 2020. He arranged to repay the arrears in 39 monthly payments 
of £22.86, payable from January 2021 to March 2024. However, VWFS cancelled and re-set 
this payment arrangement in error. And, as a result, they started recording the arrears to the 
CRAs. Mr J became aware of this in December 2021 and complained to VWFS.
VWFS admitted their error and said they shouldnt have been reporting the arrears to the 
CRAs, as they were Covid-19 related. They apologised for this, corrected Mr Js credit file, 
and paid him an additional £250 for any inconvenience hed been caused. Mr J wasnt happy 
with this response, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said VWFS had made an error and, when Mr J made them aware of this, 
they corrected it and paid him compensation. Which he thought was reasonable. And, while 
Mr J had a mortgage application declined, the investigator couldnt say this was because of 
the information VWFS had recorded. So, he didnt think VWFS needed to do anything more.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt think £250 was sufficient, as it was around 
half of his normal monthly payment to VWFS. He said his credit history was excellent, and 
his mortgage broker told him the adverse information reported by VWFS was the reason his 
mortgage was declined. So, he asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
Mr J also referred to damage that was done to his car during a service, and that VWFS 
havent contacted him about this, four weeks after he made his complaint to them. The 
investigator explained that VWFS need to be given the opportunity to deal with this issue 
before we can investigate it. So, this isnt something that would form part of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr J was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate 
complaints about it. 
The basic facts of this case arent disputed. And VWFS have acknowledged they made a 
mistake, which resulted in arrears being reported in error. As such, my decision will 
concentrate on whether I think the £250 VWFS have already paid Mr J was sufficient given 
the circumstances.
Mr J doesnt think the compensation was sufficient as he was declined a mortgage because 
of what VWFS had recorded. While I havent seen anything to show me Mr J was declined a 
mortgage, I dont doubt that this was the case. However, I also havent seen anything to 
show me the mortgage was declined solely because of the arrears recorded by VWFS. 
Mr J has referred to an email from his mortgage broker, but the mortgage broker wasnt 
making the lending decision. This was the mortgage lender. And, without confirmation from 
the mortgage lender stating that it was only because of the arrears recorded by VWFS that 
the mortgage was declined, Im unable to conclude that Mr J didnt get the mortgage he was 
looking for solely because of VWFSs actions.
Whats more, when Mr J became aware the arrears had been recorded, following the 
mortgage application being declined, VWFS corrected this. And I havent seen anything to 
show me that, since this point, Mr J hasnt been able to obtain a mortgage solely because of 
what VWFS had recorded in error, and then removed from his credit file. So, while I 
appreciate the shock and inconvenience Mr J suffered because of VWFSs error, I wont be 
asking them to increase this compensation.
Mr J has also referred to the compensation hes been paid in terms of the monthly payment 
he pays. However, as the compensation is for the trouble and upset Mr J was caused, its 
not related to the value of the payments themselves. So, I dont think its reasonable to 
consider the compensation in terms of what percentage of a payment its equivalent to.
Having considered all the facts and circumstances, Im satisfied that the compensation paid 
by VWFS is in the region of what I wouldve asked them to pay, had they not made any offer. 
So, for this reason, I wont be asking VWFS to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman