DRN-3818564
The complaint
Mrs W says Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about two 36-month instalment loans that Bamboo provided to
Mrs W. The first loan was taken out in February 2021 for £3,000. The monthly repayments 
were £158.17 and the total repayable was £5,694. The second loan for £3,997.37, which 
was used in part to settle loan one, was taken out in August 2021. The monthly repayments 
were £210.75 and the total repayable was £7,578.01. There is an outstanding balance on 
loan two.
Mrs W says she cannot afford the repayments and is having financial difficulties, made 
worse by the cost of living. This is affecting her health. When she called Bamboo it said it 
would not offer a payment holiday and advised she contact StepChange. She says she 
should not have been given the loans as her credit score was very poor. She asks that 
Bamboo refund the interest she has paid, using the money to repay any capital balance she 
owes. She wants the missed payments removing from her credit file.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint. He thought Bamboos checks were 
proportionate, and that Bamboo made fair lending decisions based on the results it saw.
Unhappy with that assessment Mrs W asked for an ombudsmans review and so the 
complaint was passed to me. She said if Bamboo had done proper checks, like looking at 
her bank statements and credit score, it would have seen she couldnt afford the loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Ws complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that            
Mrs W would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
- If so, did it make fair lending decisions?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs W wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Bamboo to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mrs Ws ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Bamboo had to think about whether repaying
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mrs W. In practice this meant 
that the business had to ensure that making the payments to the loans wouldnt cause      
Mrs W undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough 
for Bamboo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs W. Checks also had to be proportionate to the 
specific circumstances of the loan applications.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mrs Ws complaint.
Bamboo has provided evidence to show that before each loan it asked for some information
from Mrs W. It asked for her monthly income, her employment status, her residential status 
and housing cost. It completed an income verification check with a third-party and used 
national statistics to make an assumption about her living costs. It carried out a credit check 
to understand her credit history and her existing credit commitments. Based on the results of 
these checks Bamboo thought it was fair to lend.
Loan 1
I think the checks Bamboo carried out were proportionate, given the loan value and term and 
the monthly repayment relative to Mrs Ws income. Mrs W said Bamboo didnt look at her 
bank statements but as I explained earlier there is no set list of checks  they just need to be 
reasonable, proportionate and borrower-focused.
I have then looked at the results of the lenders checks. They showed that Mrs Ws monthly 
income was £1,365 and after her outgoings (housing & living costs and credit commitments) 
she had around £480 disposable income. The credit check showed some adverse data, but 
it was historic and not, I think, a fair reason to decline her application. She was not over-
indebted (£3,561) and her active accounts were all up-to-date at the time.It follows I dont think Bamboo was wrong to give loan one to Mrs W.
Loan 2
Again I think the checks were proportionate in the circumstances. And they showed that     
Mrs Ws monthly income was £1400 and after her outgoings (housing & living costs and 
credit commitments) she had around £500 disposable income. The credit check showed the 
same historic adverse data as at the time of loan one, there were no new recent missed 
payments. All of Mrs Ws active accounts were up-to-date. She had taken out one new credit 
card since her application for loan one, but that had a low limit of £300. So I dont think there 
were any indications when Mrs W applied for loan 2 that it might not be sustainably 
affordable for her.
It follows I dont think Bamboo was wrong to give loan two to Mrs W. I also note Bamboos 
point that it can see from the contact records on Mrs Ws account that she experienced a 
change in circumstances after the second loan and this led to her financial hardship. 
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mrs W is unhappy that it did not offer her a payment holiday when she asked. But after 
completing a revised income and expenditure form with Mrs W I can see it advised she 
speak to one of the organisations that provide free debt management advice. This can be a 
reasonable response in certain circumstances, and I would urge her to do so. I am sorry   
Mrs W is struggling now with her debts. 
I would remind Bamboo of its ongoing obligation to treat Mrs W fairly and with forbearance. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman