DRN-2966853
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) rejected his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr K bought solar panels for his home in 2013. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Hitachi, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr K into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Ks complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr K, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide 
over a ten-year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual 
performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Hitachi 
didnt agree with our adjudicators view, so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Hitachi is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
I understand Hitachi has highlighted Mr K did not use the term self-funding in his complaint. 
Although Mr K didnt use the phrase self-funding in his complaint, as explained by our 
adjudicator, Mr K says he was told that he would receive benefit from the solar panels in 
savings on his electricity bills and payments from the feed in tariff (FIT) scheme. And he was 
also told the total benefits receivable would cover the overall costs associated with the 
system within a few years of installation. This also matches what was shown in the sales 
literature he was given. 
Im persuaded Mr K was led to believe the system would pay for itself within a few years of 
instillation. And, noting that the loan was repayable over a 93-month term, I think that 
provides context for what was meant by a few years. In this context, I would expect a few 
years to be less than the loan term. To pay for itself within a few years, the benefits of the 
system (in energy savings and FIT payments) wouldve had to at least match the monthly 
loan repayments during that time. In other words, the system would be self-funding. But the 
benefits of the system did not do this (and were never likely to).
 
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr K was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him. 
So, I think that Hitachi didnt treat Mr K fairly and he lost out because of what Hitachi did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Hitachi needs to do to put things right for Mr K
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ks complaint for Hitachi to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr K from the solar panels 
over a 10 year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
Ive decided the redress should be calculated over a 10-year period, rather than Mr Ks loan 
term. This is because I need to ensure the redress is fair and reasonable to both Mr K and 
Hitachi. 
Because Mr K can expect to benefit from the solar panels (through energy saving and Feed-
In Tariff payments) for 20 years, I think a 10-year period is reasonable when calculating the 
redress. In this specific case, I do not think a shorter period would strike the appropriate 
balance in terms of fairness.
In the event the calculation shows that Mr K is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Hitachi needs to reimburse Mr K accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr K by way of explanation.  
In its final response letter, Hitachi says that Mr K has settled the loan. So, I think Hitachi 
should pay Mr K the difference between what he paid in total and what the loan should have 
been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr K first 
contacted Hitachi that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Hitachi should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman