DRN-3164035
The complaint
Ms W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly registered a default on her credit file.
What happened
Ms W says she agreed a three-month payment break on her HSBC loan in September 2020. 
She says she then agreed a new plan with HSBC for a further six months. Ms W says that 
she tried to make a large payment towards the loan balance in around February 2021, but 
HSBC didnt wish to take the payment. She says that HSBC then later defaulted and closed 
the account. Ms W would like the default removed from her account.
HSBC says it agreed two plans or payment breaks with Ms W but made clear to her that her 
arrears would be reported to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). It says it explained the 
position in detail with Ms W about the lump sum payment she offered in February 2021. And 
told her that her account would default unless an amount was paid but wanted to carry out 
an expenditure/income assessment with her before accepting the lump sum payment. HSBC 
says it sent Ms W the default notices and correctly closed her account.
Ms W brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
listened to the telephone calls between the parties and thought HSBC explained the default 
position and how much Ms W needed to pay to avoid it. The investigator also thought Ms W 
didnt wish to provide her income/expenditure details.
Ms W says the call is key between her and HSBC and that she begged HSBC to take her 
payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Ms W will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no real dispute here that HSBC tried to help Ms W when she lost her job and was 
unable to repay her HSBC loan. Im satisfied having listened to the calls between the parties 
and having looked at HSBCs letters that it explained to Ms W that her account may default 
and that the arrangement would be reported to the CRAs. 
I have listened to the key call between the parties. Im satisfied that Ms W offered to make a 
lump sum payment of just under £2,000 and that HSBC explained that to avoid a default that 
a payment of just over £3,000 was needed. Im also satisfied that HSBC asked Ms W to 
complete a financial assessment with her to decide if the offer was affordable, but Ms W 
refused to do so. Im satisfied that HSBC explained on a number of occasions what Ms W 
needed to do to avoid the default and when she needed to make a payment. I think it clear 
that Ms W understood the position as she accepts on the call what she needed to do. So, I 
dont think HSBC made a mistake or acted unfairly by later closing Ms Ws account and 
registering a default on her credit file when no payments were made.
I appreciate Ms W wanted to avoid a default, but I also think HSBC on numerous occasions 
explained what needed to be done. I dont think Ms W begged HSBC to accept the lump 
sum payment as Ms W suggests and was aware that she could use that money to avoid the 
default if a payment was made some six weeks later.
Overall, I find HSBC acted fairly by trying to help Ms W and that it had little choice but to 
close the account and register a default on her credit file in circumstances where she was 
unable to repay her loan. It follows that I cant fairly order HSBC to remove the default from 
Ms Ws credit file. I appreciate Ms W says during the call between her and HSBC that she 
didnt receive the default notice but I can see she has provided us with a copy of it, so I think 
she must have received it at some point. I also think that Ms W didnt make contact with 
HSBC after the February 2021 call until some time after the account was closed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman