DRN-2792023
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, didnt update his address on 
their systems when he notified them that it should be changed.
What happened
In late 2019, Mr N called Halifax and asked them to update his address. Mr Ns address had 
been listed at his work address and he wanted it changed to his home address. One reason 
for this was that Mr N was working from home regularly, and because of this he no longer 
wanted Halifax to post correspondence to his work address, as had been the case 
previously.
In April 2020, Mr N had to go overseas and was unable to return until October 2020. On Mr 
Ns return to the UK he requested statements from Halifax, but they didnt arrive at his 
address. Mr N checked his details and discovered that Halifax were still using his work 
address, despite his request to change the address several months earlier. Mr N wasnt 
happy about this, so he made a complaint.
Halifax looked at Mr Ns complaint. They acknowledged that they didnt update Mr Ns 
address details when they said they would, so they rectified their mistake by correctly 
updating Mr Ns address and paid Mr N £200 compensation for the upset and inconvenience 
the matter had caused.
Mr N wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response and was concerned that his financial details 
had been seen by colleagues at work. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Halifaxs response to Mr 
Ns complaint, including the corrective action and the payment of £200 compensation, 
represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had happened. So, they didnt uphold 
Mr Ns complaint. 
Mr N remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax have accepted that they didnt update Mr Ns address when they should have done, 
and they upheld his complaint on that basis and made payment of £200 compensation to Mr 
N. The point of contention in this instance is that Mr N doesnt feel that Halifaxs response to 
his complaint goes far enough, and he feels that the circumstances of this complaint warrant 
a higher amount of compensation being paid.
I can understand how Mr N must have been disappointed to discover that Halifax hadnt 
updated his address details when they said they would. But its important to note that it isnt 
the remit of this service to punish or fine a business. Rather, in circumstances such as this, 
where a customers request hasnt been actioned by a business, what this service would 
expect would be that the business in question would take the necessary steps to correct the 
position and also make a fair and reasonable offer of compensation to that customer for any 
trouble and inconvenience caused.
I think that Halifax have done that here. Theyve corrected their mistake and updated Mr Ns 
address correctly, and they also made a payment to Mr N of £200 to compensate him for the 
inconvenience incurred.
Payment of compensation can be a subjective issue, with an offer deemed fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as such by another. And Im aware that Mr N 
feels that a far larger amount of compensation is merited by the circumstances here. But the 
£200 that Halifax have already paid to Mr N feels fair to be, given what happened, and I 
must note that its commensurate with the level of compensation this service would expect to 
be paid in situations such as this.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr N was wanting, but it follows from this that I 
feel that Halifaxs response to Mr Ns complaint, including correctly updating Mr Ns address 
and the payment of £200 compensation, does represent a fair outcome to this complaint. 
And this means that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Halifax to take any further 
action at this time. I hope that Mr N can understand, given everything I have explained, why I 
have made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman