DRN-2234577
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Collingwood Insurance Services (U.K.) Limited (CISL) in 
connection with a motor insurance policy it sold to him.
Background
CISL sold Mr M a policy through an online process. At that time Mr M told CISL he had a 
motoring conviction. A couple of months later, after the conviction became spent, he 
contacted CISL again. He asked if it could recalculate his premium to reflect that his 
conviction was now spent. CISL explained his insurer  which is a separate business to 
CISL  wouldn't recalculate his premium mid-term because the conviction had become 
spent.
Mr M cancelled his policy. CISL charged him a £30 cancellation fee and didn't return a 
£68.50 processing fee it had charged him when it set up his policy. Mr M complained. CISL 
didn't think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She thought it was 
reasonable for CISL to apply the charges it had. She added that while she couldn't make a 
ruling on whether CISL had breached any data protection rules or the Rehabilitation of 
Offenders Act (1974) (ROA), as Mr M alleged, she thought CISL had dealt with him fairly. 
Mr M didn't agree and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
After a colleague looked into the case our investigator issued a second assessment of 
Mr Ms complaint. She said she didn't think CISL had mis-sold the policy to Mr M. He didn't 
provide any further comments on that point.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
 
CISL is a broker so it sells policies and may help with their administration. But it doesn't 
provide the insurance cover itself. That cover is offered by an insurer which, while it shares a 
similar name to CISL, is an entirely separate business. That means CISL has no 
responsibility for the insurers actions. And its the insurer - and not CISL - which is 
responsible for any of the insurers underwriting decisions. Such underwriting decisions 
include things like: whether or not to recalculate a premium mid-term; the eligibility criteria for 
the policy; and the premiums charged. Mr M also brought a complaint to us about the insurer 
and weve looked at that separately. So I don't intend to comment on any actions or 
decisions which are the insurers responsibility within this decision.
Mr M is unhappy with the fees that CISL charged him. In particular those where a £68.50 
processing fee and a £30 cancellation fee. But I've seen that before Mr M bought the policy 
he had to tick a box to acknowledge hed read CISLs terms of business. And those terms of 
business clearly set out the fees CISL apply. The £68.50 fee is CISLs fee to set up the 
policy. That is its fee to cover its costs for arranging the policy and is payable once a 
consumer agrees to buy it. Its terms of business are clear the fee is non-refundable. So I 
think its reasonable that CISL didn't refund this fee when Mr M cancelled his policy.
Similarly the terms of business clearly show CISL charge a £30 fee on cancellation of a 
policy. And as CISL made Mr M aware of both the processing fee and the cancellation fee 
before he bought the policy, I don't think it did anything wrong in charging those fees when 
Mr M bought the policy or cancelled it.
Mr Ms added that CISL has discriminated against him and hasn't fairly applied the 
protections hes afforded by the ROA and was in breach of data protection rules. It appears 
that most of Mr Ms comments here are directed at the insurer rather than CISL as a broker. 
But I've considered if I've seen evidence of any unfairness by CISL. Ill explain that when 
deciding if a business has treated a consumer fairly and reasonably Ill take the law into 
account. But it's not my role to make a specific ruling on whether or not a business has 
breached the ROA  or any other law - as that would be a matter for the courts. Similarly, it's 
not for me to make a finding on whether or not a business has broken any data protection 
rules. Thats a matter for the Information Commissioner. But in any event I haven't seen any 
evidence which persuades me that CISL has treated Mr M unfairly.
Further, our investigator recently issued a second assessment of Mr Ms complaint 
addressing his concern that CISL had mis-sold the policy. Mr M hasn't provided any 
additional comment or argument to say whether or not he agrees with our investigator's 
second complaint assessment. But, for completeness, I agree with our investigator that CISL 
didn't mis-sell the policy. Thats because CISL sold it on a non-advised basis, which means 
that it didn't make a recommendation or say that the policy was suitable for Mr M. And, as 
such it was required to give Mr M information that was clear, fair and not misleading, and I 
think it did that. Mr M then chose to buy the policy on the basis of that information.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman