DRN-1442879
 
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Ald Automotive Ltd (Ald) 
trading as Kia Contract Hire.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr R acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr R responsible for keeping the car in a 
good condition allowing for fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photograph of the damage to the front alloy wheel that is the 
subject of this dispute. Im persuaded that the damage is beyond what would be 
considered fair wear and tear under the BVRLA guidance. The investigator has 
explained that guidance accurately.
Mr R says accepts that there is damage but says that the charge thats been made is 
excessive. I dont think Ald have been unreasonable making the charge that they 
have. It seems in line with similar charges made, for similar damage, that Ive seen 
levied by their competitors. Had Mr R wanted to avoid the charge I think its 
reasonable to suggest he could have arranged to get the damage repaired before the 
car was collected by Ald.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman