DRN-2340624
The complaint
Mr G complains that ReAssure Limited (then Legal & General) gave him unsuitable advice to 
take out a Personal Pension with it. In 2001 this advice was considered as part of the 
industry wide Pension Review. Mr G accepted the loss assessment then but now feels it 
wasnt adequate.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has complained that the advice was bad and carried out for the purpose of commission 
and he is now much worse of, for having left his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). 
However, this has already been considered under the Pension Review. Mr G accepted this 
in full and final settlement of any claim against the business. Ill explain in more detail why 
this means I cannot consider this complaint afresh.
ReAssure accepted in 2001 that the advice Mr G received may have been unsuitable and so 
went straight to calculating whether a loss had occurred. The intention was that the Pension 
Review would compensate Mr G for the losses he would later experience when he came to 
retire. 
The regulator provided assumptions for firms to use when carrying out the loss calculations. 
These assumptions attempted to predict future loss by determining things like future 
investment returns. 
Unfortunately, the assumptions used in the Pension Review calculations havent in hindsight 
turned out as expected. Investment returns were much lower than predicted and annuity 
rates have fallen. This has meant many people have ended up with a shortfall in their 
personal pensions when compared to what they wouldve have got within the OPS.
But I'm afraid this doesn't mean ReAssure must redo the calculation. Under the terms of the
Pensions Review, firms were only required to conduct the review once, using the
standards and assumptions the regulator told them to use at the time. This is because the
assumptions or predictions they used were considered reasonable at the time to assess the
future loss. The regulator intended that the review would draw a line under any pension mis-
selling and would put things right at the time. Once a firm carried out a Pension Review on a 
policy, they werent required to review it again. 
At the time most pension providers got specialist agencies to do many of the reviews. And
businesses carrying out the reviews were subject to internal and external quality checks by 
the regulator. So, Im satisfied that the review was likely carried out correctly.
I appreciate Mr Gs frustration, that now over two decades later, the Pension Review 
calculation hasnt worked out for him. Unfortunately, as previously explained the Pension 
Review was a one-off exercise. To do these review calculations at a much later date, had 
significant drawbacks, as firms may no longer have existed at that point. And so for the most 
part, reviews were carried out there and then as instructed by the regulator.
I am sorry for the position Mr G finds himself in because of the advice he received to transfer 
his OPS. And that the redress hasnt proven to be adequate. But as the transfer has been 
reviewed as it was required to by the regulator at the time, Im not able to ask ReAssure to 
look at it again.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman