DRN-4049011
The complaint
Mrs P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has declined to refund the money she lost when 
she fell victim to an impersonation scam in 2021.
HSBC says it is not liable for the loss because: Mrs P unwittingly authorised each payment; 
all of those payments were sent to accounts held in her own name, meaning the loss 
occurred at a later point; and, it could not reasonably have intervened to a greater extent 
than it did or done more to try to recoup the money.
What happened
Mrs P holds a savings account and a current account with HSBC. In March 2021, she 
received a call purportedly from HSBCs Cyber Security Team. She was told by the caller 
that there had been suspicious activity identified in relation to her HSBC accounts. Her help 
was needed with a Police investigation into a criminal gang believed to be responsible. 
The call was transferred to someone claiming to work for the National Crime Agency. Mrs P 
says she later received an email from that individual which appeared authentic. But unknown 
to Mrs P at the time, she was in reality dealing with scammers.
The caller led Mrs P to believe that the criminal gang had members inside the bank itself. 
Whenever she spoke to anyone else from the bank there was the chance they might be 
involved. Mrs P was told that if the gang were to find out that she was assisting the Police, 
then she could be personally targeted and physically at risk.
Subsequently the caller coached her step by step through the processes required to create 
accounts in her own name with four different cryptocurrency exchanges and to make 
payments to these, purportedly to entrap the criminal gang. Mrs P explains shed not 
previously used online banking and she had no prior experience of investments or 
cryptocurrency.
Mrs P made payments to these accounts between March and May 2021, accounting for a 
significant sum of money. Some money, less than £30,000, was credited back into Mrs Ps 
account - but in total she sustained a substantial loss. The scam eventually came to light 
when, during one call, Mrs P noticed that the person she was speaking to sounded 
inebriated. This clearly wasnt consistent with it being a Police officer and Mrs P realised it 
had been a scam. She alerted HSBC to what had happened.
HSBC looked into the matter. This type of scam is known as an APP scam. While a 
voluntary code (the CRM Code) has been introduced to provide greater financial protection 
for APP scam victims and HSBC is a signatory, the code does not cover all scams or all 
payments (for example international payments or payments that dont go directly to another 
persons account). Here the accounts at the cryptocurrency exchanges were set up in 
Mrs Ps own name, although she says the scammer had control over the accounts.
HSBC didnt consider it was liable to refund Mrs P for the payments shed instructed it to 
make. It had a duty to make payments in line with correctly authorised requests, which these 
had been. There had been no cause for it to prevent the payments at the time.
However, HSBC noted that it had intervened and spoken to Mrs P after she attempted a 
payment of £20,000 on 2 April 2021. As part of the scam, Mrs P had been given a detailed 
cover story that she was making investments. HSBC said the answers Mrs P gave to its 
enquiries stopped it from identifying and preventing what was really happening. Furthermore, 
HSBC couldnt recover the funds Mrs P had sent, as the money shed transferred had 
already been moved out of her wallet accounts into cryptocurrency.
Mrs P didnt accept this outcome. She referred her complaint to our service for review.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mrs Ps complaint on 3 March 2023. In my 
provisional findings, I explained why I didnt intend to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. An extract of 
that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
Upon reading all the available evidence and arguments, I have reached a provisional 
finding that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, is that HSBC is 
not liable to refund the losses Mrs P sustained through the scam she fell victim to. I am 
extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Mrs P and I appreciate this will be a 
significant disappointment to her. But I hope the following will help her understand why 
I intend to reach this decision.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im 
required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. Both sides to the 
dispute agree on that. Mrs P had taken the necessary steps to authorise HSBC to 
make each payment these were authorised payments.
In other words, at the time Mrs P sent the money, she authorised the payments and 
wanted them to be made. So, although Mrs P did not intend the money to end up with 
the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, which apply to all of 
these payments, and the terms and conditions of bank accounts, Mrs P is presumed 
liable for the resulting losses in the first instance
This holds even though Mrs P was the victim of an elaborate scam. I must take this 
starting position into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
So, while I am satisfied that Mrs P has been the innocent victim of a scam here, that 
doesnt mean she has any right to reimbursement by HSBC. That depends on whether 
the bank did anything wrong and could be held liable for her losses  that is, should 
HSBC have done more to prevent the scam from taking place or intervened so that 
Mrs P would have realised what was happening and not sent her money. 
I consider that where a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of 
a fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the 
customer even though the customer authorised the transactions. I consider that a bank 
also has a duty to take reasonable steps to protect its customers against the risk of 
fraud and scams.
With that in mind, I will address what I think is the heart of the matter here, that being: when Mrs P instructed these payments, did HSBC intervene to an appropriate extent 
and could a reasonable level of intervention by HSBC have identified the scam and 
prevented the loss from taking place?
Here HSBC has evidenced that it blocked and intervened in the payment made on 2 
April 2021. I am satisfied that it was not unreasonable for HSBC to have intervened at 
this point (if not sooner). I note, having reviewed the discussion between Mrs P and 
HSBC on that date, that it appears there may have been an earlier intervention by 
HSBC. 
Even if there were to have been an earlier intervention, I think it reasonable to assume 
that would have resulted in a discussion similar to that which took place on 2 April. I 
say this considering that Mrs P has since explained she had been prepared by the 
scammer with a scripted cover story. It appears this script in effect provided Mrs P with 
a series of answers to respond to HSBCs questions.
Given that the bank did intervene, and at an appropriate stage, I must next consider 
the steps HSBC took against the extent of intervention that I believe could reasonably 
be expected (given the relevant considerations I have outlined above) of a bank such 
as HSBC in relation to an authorised online Faster Payments transfer.
Significantly here, Mrs P had been given a cover story by the scammer to use when 
answering questions from her bank about the payments she was making. Everything 
suggests this cover story was carefully designed by the scammer with the purpose of 
defeating the banks efforts to protect Mrs P. 
That said, I dont consider a bank ought always to accept what a consumer tells it at 
face value. Banks have long been aware that, particularly in some types of scam, 
customers may have been tricked into deliberately deceiving their bank about the true 
purpose of a payment. Knowing that, Id expect a bank to be on the lookout for 
anything that might suggest the explanation it is given in response to reasonable 
questioning is improbable or otherwise has signs of being a false cover story being 
used to disguise a scam.
But, while it now appears Mrs P was using a script to prompt her responses, based on 
the discussion that she had with the bank I dont consider this would have been at all 
apparent to the call handler at the time. During the call, Mrs P answered all of the 
questions HSBC posed without any noticeable hesitations or other signs of anything 
being amiss. She was able to provide details of the various transactions shed made, 
and why. The answers she gave were exactly as might have been expected had she 
been making a legitimate investment in cryptocurrency in the hope of securing a better 
return than could be achieved on her savings. 
I dont think there was anything missed by HSBC here that suggested this wasnt what 
was happening. Mrs P confirmed shed set the accounts up herself and was doing this 
herself and that no-one was forcing her.
So, I dont think HSBC was at fault  it asked questions appropriately and was 
reassured by the answers given. HSBC was not permitted to provide unsolicited 
financial advice about the suitability of an investment in cryptocurrency. There was 
nothing that would obviously have pointed to the true situation underpinning the 
payments being made.
Even had the call-handler had concerns at this point, Im not sure those concerns 
would have prompted them to give Mrs P a relevant warning about scams. What she was saying and the payments she was making could have been consistent with a 
cryptocurrency investment scam  she was making payments to a crypto wallet and 
later received what would have appeared to be returns from the investments. At the 
time these events occurred that type of scam (Police assistance disguised as a 
cryptocurrency investment) wasnt prevalent to the extent Id expect HSBC to have 
been alert to this possibility. Rather I think it would have reasonably considered the 
risk to be an investment scam.
That means, even if I thought there was enough in the call to prompt a greater degree 
of intervention or warning by HSBCs call-handler (which I dont) then that would have 
been unlikely to make a difference. Any such further intervention and warning would 
undoubtably have been targeted on what appeared the relevant risk. And HSBC faced 
a primary obligation requiring it to carry out its customers instructions to make the 
payment. Having reassured HSBC as to the validity of the payments discussed during 
the call, Mrs P requested not to be contacted again about similar payments in future. I 
dont find it was unreasonable for HSBC not to have done so in the circumstances 
here.
In other words, I dont think HSBC had cause to have stopped Mrs P from making 
these payments, nor that it could reasonably have identified a valid reason to do so. 
Unfortunately, I think it is simply the case that the construction of the scam made it 
very unlikely this could have been prevented once the scammer had gained Mrs Ps 
trust. Mrs P was the innocent victim of a crime, but I dont find that HSBC was at fault. 
Mrs P reported her concerns that she might have been the victim of a scam to HSBC, 
and while the bank attempted to recover her funds, from what I have seen these had 
long since been removed from the wallets held in Mrs Ps name and been converted 
into cryptocurrency. I dont think there was anything more HSBC could reasonably 
have done at this point to recover Mrs Ps losses.
As Ive noted above, the CRM Code affords greater protection from the impact of some 
scams, specifically where consumers are the blameless victim of an APP scam. 
Unfortunately, the CRM Code isnt currently applicable where payment is sent via an 
account held in the customers own name. It does not apply here. I cant fairly require 
HSBC to consider this under the CRM Codes requirements.
Overall
I am sorry to hear about the substantial losses Mrs P has suffered as a result of this 
elaborate scam, and the impact this has had on her. 
But having considered everything, I dont think HSBC could reasonably have 
prevented these losses. For the reasons given above, Im satisfied the CRM Code 
cannot apply here. Nor can I see there are other grounds on which I could say that 
HSBC should, fairly and reasonably, bear the responsibility for the loss.
It follows that I am not currently minded to make any order or award.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decisionHSBC had no comments to add. 
Mrs P responded to my provisional decision. In summary she said:
- I should fairly apply the CRM Code to her case, given that the accounts to which she 
moved her money were under the control of the scammer, and so could be deemed 
accounts held by another person despite being in her name;
- HSBC ought to have taken steps prior to the call on 2 April referenced in my 
provisional decision, and if it did not this was a failure on its part to protect Mrs P 
from financial harm.
- She recalled a telephone interaction with HSBC at the time which had ended abruptly 
when Mrs P couldnt understand what the banks representative was saying due to 
their strong accent. If this took place prior to the call referenced in my provisional 
decision this could indicate another failure to execute the banks duty of care to her. 
- She remembered there having been telephone calls with HSBC besides that on 2 
April, and these could be relevant.
- HSBC ought to have identified that Mrs P was using a cover story and thereby 
uncovered the true situation.
My further review
Ive reviewed everything afresh in light of Mrs Ps comments. However, my provisional 
outcome and the reasoning behind it remains unchanged. I will set out why in more detail 
below.
Applicability of the CRM Code
I will turn firstly to the CRM Code. The nature of the crime Mrs P fell victim to is commonly 
referred to as an APP scam. The CRM Code can provide additional protection for some APP 
scams. But it does not cover all APP scams, defining its scope in more narrow terms. It 
specifically excludes certain payments from the scope of the code (including international 
payments, payments to or from accounts denominated in currencies other than sterling, etc). 
Relevant here, the scope of APP scams covered by the CRM Code is limited to payments 
made to another persons account. 
Mrs P argues that, while the beneficiary accounts to which she made the payments were 
nominally hers, the scammer had access to and control over those accounts and so they 
effectively belonged to another person. 
Strictly of course, the accounts were in her name  she was the beneficial owner. They were 
not held by another person. But I appreciate Mrs Ps point. If she had no access to, no ability 
to view, and no control over the beneficiary accounts, then whilst they were in her name, it 
might be argued it would be fair to view these as being another persons.
The evidence though indicates that Mrs P was not completely unconnected to the accounts 
bearing her name.  She knew with which companies those new accounts had been created, 
confidently confirming the same to HSBC in calls both during and after the scam. When 
Mrs P ultimately notified HSBC that shed been scammed, she reported shed had to provide 
her own identification documents in order for the new accounts to be set up in her name. 
She told HSBC shed received emails from those same companies, confirming her payments 
had been received to those accounts. She also told HSBC shed logged into the new accounts and seen the payments. Mrs P told HSBC that towards the end of the scam shed 
realised the scammer might also be able to access these accounts. 
In these circumstances, and on the balance of the evidence, I dont find these were another 
persons accounts, nor would it be fair for me to view them as such. Rather I find that these 
were her accounts, to which it later transpired the scammer had been able gain access, 
unauthorised by Mrs P. This also corresponds with what Mrs P told HSBC at the time she 
reported the scam.
So, I do not find the CRM Code applies here. As noted above, the construction of the CRM 
Code excludes payments that would otherwise meet the broader definition of an APP scam. 
I consider that to have been by design - including the design of the signatory firms. The code 
is voluntary, not statutory, and the specific scope of the code is not something I consider I 
should fairly extend in the circumstances of this case.
Additional calls with HSBC
In Mrs Ps response to the provisional decision, she referenced earlier calls with HSBC that 
could be relevant. I had noted that at least one additional call appeared to have taken place 
(although I said I believed any such call would most likely have been similar in content given 
Mrs P was relying on a scripted cover story to answer HSBCs questions).
So, I have since gone back to HSBC to ensure it has provided every call available during the 
relevant period and listened to every call HSBC says it has been able to locate. 
Mrs P specifically referred to a call in which she was simply unable to understand the banks 
representative due to his strong accent, and that the call ended abruptly (seemingly because 
they were unable to communicate effectively). Mrs P doesnt argue that this call contained 
relevant discussion, but rather than it was a missed opportunity for the bank to act in 
identifying the scam.
Despite my subsequent enquiry the bank has been unable to locate such a call. It is 
therefore not one I can review. In the absence of clear evidence, I am required to reach a 
finding on the balance of probabilities. By Mrs Ps own testimony, she was unable to 
understand the representative. It seems to me quite possible that that would mean she was 
unable to complete the identity verification process which might well have the effect of 
meaning the call was never linked to her account.
But based on what I can establish from the available calls, it seems most likely to me the 
failed call took place on 29 March. In a call later on that same day, Mrs P begins by saying 
she had tried to speak to someone earlier and unfortunately got cut off. 
There had been no prior payment made on that date (or on the previous two days) before 
the second (and completed) call. During that completed call on 29 March the payment Mrs P 
made that day was authorised by Mrs P and released by the bank.
So, I find it unlikely the failed call would change the outcome I have reached even were that 
recording subsequently to come to light. In particular, the completed call from 29 March 
included discussion about the nature of the payment Mrs P was attempting and I think that 
would likely have been the conversation that would have occurred had the earlier call not 
ended prematurely.
In more detail, during the call on 29 March, the conversation included a number of questions 
about what was happening  very similar to the call highlighted by HSBC on 2 April. In 
response to these questions Mrs P adhered to her cover story as in the later call. The call handler explained that the reason they were asking Mrs P these questions was due 
to the risk of scams. The call handler described how, after a customers funds had been 
released, they might come to realise the payee wasnt genuine. Mrs P was also asked what 
checks shed carried out into the company she was paying. 
She explained she was aware of these scams and had looked into what she was doing. She 
explained why she was investing in Bitcoin, and how shed reached that decision. What she 
said was reasonably detailed and plausible. She said shed previously made payments to 
the same account and that shed been able to log into the destination account and 
successfully confirm receipt. She was adamant she wanted to go ahead with the payment 
that day. 
In short, the call shared significant features in common with the call referenced in my 
provisional decision that happened a few days later on 2 April.
Similarly, a call also took place on the day Mrs P made the first payment from her HSBC 
account  24 March. She made this payment by telephone banking. Again, the bank asked 
Mrs P about the reasons for the payment and asked if shed recently received any 
unexpected calls or emails which Mrs P denied. Mrs P again gave a confident explanation of 
the cover story shed been told to use by the scammer. As with the other calls, I dont 
consider this sounded scripted or otherwise false.
So, during all the calls listed on HSBCs contact history, Mrs P maintained her cover story. 
Throughout, I dont consider she sounded scripted or that there was anything that would 
have been apparent from her tone or what she said that should have alerted HSBC that all 
might not be well. 
In the round, nothing differs substantively from the call HSBC had highlighted previously 
(that on 2 April). But I hope this reassures Mrs P that in the light of her comments about 
additional calls, Im satisfied that with one exception I have been able to obtain and review 
every call that could be relevant here. Its simply the case that those other calls were broadly 
similar to the call on 2 April, in the sense that in response to HSBCs questioning Mrs P 
maintained the cover story consistently throughout, and without obvious signs of duress. 
The call that appears to be missing is the one in which Mrs P says she couldnt understand 
what the representative was saying, and that the call was abruptly ended with an apparent 
disconnection. Given that this partial call was followed shortly after by a successfully 
concluded interaction, I dont think this missing call is material to the outcome.
Should HSBC have uncovered the true situation?
Of course, in my provisional findings I commented that banks are aware that in some 
circumstances customers may be tricked into deceiving it about the payments they make, as 
part of the operation of a scam. However, from a practical standpoint I consider the starting 
point must be that a bank can rely on what its customer is telling it unless there is sufficient 
cause for the bank to believe that what it is being told is designed to hide a fraud or scam.
Here, having reviewed the conversations Mrs P had with HSBC (whether in the call on 
2 April, or in the calls where Mrs P instructed HSBC to make payments), I find that while the 
story was false, Mrs P was consistent and convincing in what she told the bank. I dont think 
there were any signs of distress or confusion, or other signs of this being a fiction. I dont 
think there were sufficient signs that what the bank was being told was a cover story that I 
could reasonably find the bank at fault in not identifying this.
Mrs P argues that the bank should have realised that it wasnt reasonable for a customer such as her to make a legitimate investment in cryptocurrency. But I dont agree that would 
be a safe conclusion to draw, nor an obvious conclusion for the bank to have drawn at the 
time. When the scam took place, the exceptional returns being achieved on cryptoassets 
were being widely reported in the mainstream media. I dont consider the interest in making 
investments in these assets was limited to those of a certain demographic. Indeed, I think 
that is likely why investment scams targeted this interest at the time. 
And the prevalent risk of such payments being linked to investment scams is one which Id 
expect HSBC to have been alert to. By contrast the actual scam that occurred is not one 
known to have been particularly common at the time, and not to the extent that I could find 
HSBC at fault for not identifying it from what Mrs P was telling it. So, I dont find HSBC at 
fault for focussing on the prevention of an investment scam in the questions it asked her. 
Unfortunately, the cover story disguised what was happening, and did so in a way that I 
consider prevented HSBC from reasonably being able to identify that Mrs P was the victim of 
an impersonation scam - and thereby be in a position to take appropriate steps to protect 
Mrs P and prevent her losses.
In summary, I think that unfortunately this scam was so convincingly worked it meant HSBC 
couldnt reasonably have prevented these payments from being made. Id include here the 
effect of the credits received back into Mrs Ps account with HSBC. She explains she hadnt 
noticed them at the time, so it seems the intent behind the part return of her funds wasnt to 
build her trust but was rather aimed at diverting any suspicions HSBC might otherwise have 
had.
In conclusion, having looked afresh into all the evidence thats available to me and the points 
and further information provided by Mrs P, I dont think HSBC is required to reimburse her. 
I dont underestimate the impact this crime has had on Mrs P, and I am very sorry to have to 
disappoint her. But I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for the money she lost here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mrs Ps 
complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman