DRN-3721793
The complaint
Mr A complains that Saga Services Limited, trading as Saga Insurance Services (Saga) 
havent explained why there has been a significant increase in the cost of his motor 
insurance premium. 
What happened
Mr A says his car insurance was due for renewal in March 2022. Having been a customer for 
Saga for number of years he expected to renew the policy as usual. Especially given there 
had been no change in his circumstances. 
A week before the renewal was due Mr A checked the price of the premium and says he was 
shocked to see it had increased by over £2,500. Mr A says he contacted Saga but no one 
was able to explain the reason for the increase. 
After several calls to Saga Mr A says he had no option but to obtain a policy elsewhere. He 
says he uses Saga because he thought it was a fair insurer. Mr A complained to Saga. Mr A 
wants Saga to guarantee future insurance and compensate him for the fact he has lost time 
and sleep due to the poor service. 
Saga said Mr As premium is calculated by taking his individual circumstances into 
consideration. It said insurance was an assessment of risk and this is reviewed regularly.  It 
explained it had checked the policy premium with its pricing department which confirmed the 
premium had been calculated as intended. 
Mr A wasnt satisfied with the response from Saga and so referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. The investigator looked into Mr As complaint for him. He said he 
could understand the frustration felt by Mr A but he thought Saga had acted in line with its 
policies. He said since Saga arent responsible for the cost of the insurance policy he didnt 
agree it had done anything wrong. 
Mr A disagreed with our investigators view. He said Saga had treated him unfairly and he 
wasnt happy his premium had increased by such a significant amount. And so Mr As 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr A Ive decided not to uphold Mr 
As complaint. Ill explain why. 
It is important to explain we are not the industry regulator. That means its not my role to tell 
an insurer how much it can charge for its policies. And our service generally takes the view 
that provided it treats people fairly an insurer is entitled to charge what it feels it needs to in 
order to cover a risk. 
Insurers each have their own view about the risks they are being asked to take on and how 
much they need to charge to do so. There are a variety of factors insurers take into account 
when calculating risk. These include factors directly related to a customer, such as claims 
history, and factors that arent directly related to a customer, like the number of claims in the 
area a customer lives or an increase in fraudulent claims in the area. Insurers regularly 
review these factors and they can lead to increases or decreases in the premiums they 
charge. How they gather, analyse and assess this information is up to each insurer. If an 
insurer thinks that the risk has increased for some reason it may be fair to increase the 
premium. Its not for me to decide what is a reasonable cost for the insurance, and what risk 
factors the insurer should take into consideration. It is important to explain my role here is to 
look at whether the insurer acted in a fair and reasonable manner, and within the terms and 
conditions of the policy in its dealings with Mr A. 
Businesses in the insurance industry often use bespoke software and criteria in assessing 
an insureds risk and therefore the price it will charge, to include the profit it seeks to make. 
Insurance is a competitive market and so pricing algorithms and the way policies are priced 
are commercially sensitive. Businesses do not want to risk competitors getting insight into 
their pricing practice such that they might lose a competitive advantage. And so I dont think 
its unfair that Saga wishes to keep its pricing information confidential and so isnt willing to 
explain how it quoted a policy at a lesser premium for Mr A. 
Mr As complaint is against Saga. Apart from some discretion over its level of commission it 
isnt responsible for settling the annual premium. Thats the responsibility of the insurer. I 
have been provided with some business sensitive information provided by the insurer. Im 
afraid I cant share that information as its confidential, but I would like to reassure Mr A that I 
have checked it carefully. As Saga explained the insurers on Sagas panel are invited to 
quote for a policy. The insurer who quoted did so based on its own criteria of the risks and 
the cost of that. 
In 2021 Mr As renewal cost was around £700. In 2022 the premium was over £3,000. The 
renewal letter says, please review your level of cover to ensure it still meets your needs. 
You have been with us a number of years. You may be able to get the insurance cover you 
want at a better price if you shop around.  And so I think Saga did tell Mr A he should shop 
around for his policy since often new customers receive discounts when taking out a new 
policy. 
I completely appreciate that the increase in premium must have come as an unpleasant 
surprise to Mr A. Particularly because he hasnt made any claims and has been a customer 
of Saga for many years. But from what Ive seen Mr A hasnt been unfairly treated by Saga 
or singled out in any way. In any event, it doesnt set the premium. The insurance contract is 
an annual one and consumers arent obliged to accept the renewal terms they are offered if 
they are unhappy with them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman