DRN-3359614
The complaint
Mr H complained that a claim was recorded against him and he was unhappy with how his 
claim was handled under his home insurance policy which included Home Emergency cover 
with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA).
What happened
Mr H called RSA to make a claim on his policy when his tap was leaking  water was coming 
out at full speed and couldnt be stopped. RSA were unable to fulfil its obligations under the 
policy by sending a plumber out to fix the leak.
Mr H said he wanted the issue resolved, so arranged for his own plumber to fix the leak and 
he paid him directly. RSA agreed the level of service provided was unsatisfactory and it 
compensated Mr H £75 for his experience dealing with the deployment centre and £200 for 
any costs he incurred to stop the leak.
The crux of Mr Hs complaint is that RSA recorded a claim against his name on the Claims 
and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). Hes unhappy as he doesnt think the call to RSA 
constituted a claim, as it wasnt able to fulfil its obligations and he arranged his own plumber. 
He said, I was misled in how they intended to characterise the £200 they paid me, which I 
assumed was compensation awarded for my complaint.
Mr H also raised some points he was unhappy about in relation to his bank whose name the 
policy was branded in, as well as comments on RSAs handling of the complaint.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He said RSA need to keep an accurate 
record of whats happened on Mr Hs policy and he said he thinks whats been recorded on 
fairly represents whats happened. He thought the £75 compensation paid was fair. Mr H 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made comments that hes unhappy with the inconsistency of what has been said 
by his bank who branded the policy and RSA who were the broker and insurer on the policy. 
Unfortunately, as Mr Hs bank isnt regulated by our service to handle claims, I wont be able 
consider anything related to his bank, as its not in our services jurisdiction to do so. Its 
worth noting, if Mr H has contacted any of the telephone numbers that are listed on the 
policy, its very likely he wouldve spoken to someone who was representing RSA.
I wont consider the amount that RSA has paid out (£75 and £200) as Mr H has indicated to 
our service that his complaint is not about this. His complaint was specifically about his claim 
been formally recorded against his policy.
I have looked to see what has been recorded by RSA for the claim. The claim has been 
recorded on CUE, so is visible to other insurers if they choose to search for Mr Hs history. 
The detail of the claim shows as not pursued and no costs. 
I have considered what normally happens when the home emergency part of a policy cant 
be fulfilled by the insurer. Often in times of peak demand, the insurers appointed contractor 
wont have capacity to fulfil every emergency. In these circumstances, an insurer may allow 
the policyholder to source their own contractor and reimburse these costs either on 
production of a quote or an invoice.
Whats happened here appears slightly different. At first, RSA declined Mr Hs offer to find 
his own plumber and reimburse him the costs. However, RSA said it changed its decision 
and agreed that [Mr. H] could and it shouldnt exceed a cost of £200. RSA further said, as 
a gesture Ive marked the claim as not pursued and compensated £200 for any costs you 
incurred to stop the leak.
Ive listened to the call between RSA and Mr H. Mr H was clear in that he said he didnt want 
the claim recorded against him as he didnt feel he had received the service he was 
contracted for. However, RSA clarified the claim did need to be recorded but it would be 
recorded as not pursued and no costs. RSA also said it would pay Mr H the £200 to cover 
his costs as a gesture of goodwill as thats what his entitlement was under the policy. Mr H 
said he was still unhappy with the claim being recorded. RSA said it would review its position 
and put its response in writing.
I think RSA has been reasonable in recording the claim against Mr H. He did ring RSA to 
make a claim. RSA has a responsibility to record what has happened on the policy. Whats 
important is that whats recorded is correct. And I think, what RSA has recorded in CUE 
accurately reflects what has happened. I think RSAs approach was consistent in both the 
phone call and its written response. I havent seen any evidence it has misled Mr H. So, 
whilst I know Mr H is disappointed with this outcome as its not what he wanted, I dont think 
RSA has acted unfairly. RSA has recorded the information in the same way as I would 
expect any other insurer to have done in the same circumstances. So, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Mr H said he was unhappy with the general service he received. For example, he thought a 
letter was worded in a threatening manner. In reviewing the case, I havent seen any 
evidence that RSA has acted unreasonably. Where its service has failed, I think it has 
compensated Mr H fairly. I dont think there is evidence that warrants further compensation 
being awarded.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman