DRN-2109377
The complaint
Mr K complains Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans irresponsibly lent to him. He says 
Buddy Loans didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks before approving him for 
a loan, and had it done so it wouldve seen the loan was unaffordable to him.   
What happened
Mr K was approved for the below loan:
Date Capital Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentsTotal 
Amount
January 2018 £5,000 60 months £197.62 £11,815.73
Mr K says that at the time the loan was approved he was in financial difficulties and was in a 
cycle of debt. He says proportionate checks would have shown the loan was unaffordable to 
him, and as such Buddy Loans shouldnt have approved him for it. Mr K says the loans have 
added to his financial difficulties and he has had to pay additional interest and charges. 
Buddy Loans says it completed proportionate checks before it approved Mr K for the loan. It 
says it completed a credit search on Mr K, as well as a detailed income and expenditure 
assessment. It says it also verified Mr Ks income via an online tool. Buddy Loans say the 
checks it completed showed that Mr K had an income of approximately £4,000 and after 
deducting Mr Ks outgoings as well as existing credit commitments he had approximately 
£1,300 disposable income left each month. Buddy Loans argues this showed the loan was 
affordable to Mr K.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Buddy Loans had 
completed proportionate checks. He argued that the credit report showed Mr K had a high 
debt ratio, as well as a total unsecured debt balance at over £63,000. This balance was 
spread across several credit products including credit cards, loans and an overdraft facility. 
Our investigator also highlighted that Mr K had missed payments on some of his products in 
the past. Our investigator argued these factors combined shouldve prompted Buddy Loans 
to conduct further checks; and had it done so it wouldve seen Mr Ks financial situation was 
poor. In particular that his debt was unmanageable, and that he was in a cycle of debt. As 
such the loan was always unaffordable to Mr K, and shouldnt have been lent.
Buddy Loans disagreed. It maintained the checks it completed were proportionate. As no 
agreement could be reach the matter has been passed to me to issue a final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ks complaint. Bearing in mind 
the dispute before me, I think that there are two overarching questions that I need to 
consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Ks complaint. These are:
1. Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr K, to satisfy 
itself that he was in a position repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
a. If so, did it make a fair decision to lend? 
b. If not, would those checks have shown that Mr K would have been able to do 
so?
2. Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Ill deal with each question in turn.
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr K, to satisfy itself 
that he was in a position repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
Buddy Loans needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to be able to 
understand if any lending was affordable to Mr K. The relevant rules dont set out which 
specific checks it has to complete for them to be reasonable and proportionate. But relevant 
checks could include things such as a customers income (over the full term of the loan), and 
their outgoing expenses. These checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the 
amount of credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments 
and total length of the term. The checks also need to be borrower focused.
It is also not sufficient for Buddy Loans to just complete proportionate checks. It also needs 
to consider the information it is provided with and make a fair lending decision. 
Ive set out above the checks that Buddy Loans completed, and why it believes they were 
proportionate. Having carefully considered this argument I disagree with it. This is for largely 
the same reasons that our investigator gave. 
Considering the amount being borrowed, and the high utilisation of his existing credit 
commitments, Im satisfied Buddy Loans shouldve sought further information to verify Mr Ks 
financial commitments and income. 
The income check which Buddy Loans completed showed that Mr K declared a self-
employed income of £4,000. Mr K declared his outgoings as approximately £825. Buddy 
Loans then used the results of the credit report to give a figure of approximately £1,840 for 
Mr Ks credit commitments. These combined gave a disposable income of approximately 
£1,340.
In reaching these figures Buddy Loans used an online verification tool as well as applying 
2% minimum payment to Mr Ks credit commitments. Ive considered this approach, but I 
dont think its proportionate in this instance. I say this because the credit report check 
showed that Mr K had a substantial unsecured debt balance; which was approximately 
£63,500. This balance was shared across multiple products including credit cards, 
unsecured loans and an overdraft. The credit report also shows that Mr K was using his 
credit cards to a very high ratio, with many of them close to their maximum limits (often in the 
thousands of pounds). There are also some historic missed payments. 
Buddy Loans needed to consider the information it received and because of the high credit 
amount and utilisation of Mr Ks credit cards, Im not satisfied an application of 2% minimum payments for the existing credit commitments is proportionate. This is support by the fact 
that Mr K had missed some payments in the past. Whilst this information alone isnt enough 
to decline an application, Im satisfied it is sufficient to suggest that Buddy Loans conduct 
further checks to verify Mr Ks income and outgoings. So, it follows that Im satisfied that 
Buddy Loans didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks in this instance. 
Would further checks have shown Mr K was able to sustainably meet the repayments?
As Ive explained above, Im satisfied Buddy Loans shouldve completed further checks in 
this instance. In particular Im satisfied they shouldve done further checks to verify Mr Ks 
income and outgoings. It couldve achieved this by asking for bills, payslips or bank 
statements (amongst others). 
Mr K has provided our service with copies of his bank statements for multiple accounts; and 
Ive reviewed these when coming to my decision on this complaint.
The statements show that Mr K does not receive a consistent salary from his business. The 
amounts coming into the account vary significantly, and often show any deposits being 
transferred out of the account soon after. Importantly they show Mr K was not managing his 
finances well. He is often in his overdraft across all of the accounts, and is managing his 
finances to a very tight, and sometimes negative margin. For instance, one of his accounts 
shows an overdraft of close to £5,000 being used consistently.  When looking across the 
statements it is hard to see the declared disposable income being available; and instead 
looks like there is very little if any buffer remaining once all commitments have been met.
The statements also show that Mr K was taking on more credit commitments in the lead up 
to the application of this loan with Buddy Loans. I can see for instance that Mr K had taken 
another credit card, as well as further unsecured loans, weeks prior to the application of this 
loan. Again, this suggests someone who is not managing to maintain their finances and is 
having to take further credit to supplement any potential income.
As Buddy Loans is aware it needs to ensure any repayments Mr K made were sustainable. 
That means without having to borrow further or incurring financial difficulties. Considering the 
state of Mr Ks account Im satisfied this wouldnt have been possible, and on that basis Im 
satisfied any lending wouldve been unaffordable to Mr K.
Putting things right
In order to put things right I require Buddy Loans:
- To add up the total amount of money Mr K received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr K made should be deducted from this amount. 
a) If this results in Mr K having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Buddy Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr K
- To remove any negative information from Mr Ks credit file in relation to this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans to take off tax 
from this interest. It must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman