DRN-3981348
The complaint
Mr S complained because Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) declined a claim he
made on his motor insurance policy.
Calpe is the underwriter of this policy ie the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the
actions of a company, Ill call X, who are the administrators of the policy. As Calpe has
accepted it is accountable for the actions of X, in my decision any reference to Calpe
includes the actions of X.
What happened
Mr S made a claim on his car insurance policy when he said his car was stolen. Mr S gave a
statement to Calpes investigators and was later asked to attend a second interview with the
investigators. Calpe ultimately declined the claim. It said Mr S gave a different version of
events in his second statement compared with the first statement. It also said the information
he provided about the payments he made to purchase the car and when they were made,
didnt match the details given by his friend who sold him the car. It said Mr S had provided
information that it believed was fraudulent, false, or exaggerated.
Mr S complained about its decision, but Calpe didnt change its position. As such, he brought
his complaint to our service because he thought it was unfair it declined his claim, given the
length of time that had passed between his initial statement and the second one taken by the
investigators.
Our investigator thought Calpes decision to decline the claim was fair. He thought the
version of events Mr S gave Calpe was fundamentally different to what he told the claim
investigators. He thought its investigation into the claim was of sufficient depth and quality to
reach the decision it did. Mr S didnt accept our investigators opinion and asked for an
ombudsmans decision. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 3 February 2023 in which I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to uphold this 
complaint, Ill explain why.
Its not the role of our service to say whether Mr S committed fraud or not, thats something a
court would decide. So, Ive thought about whether Calpe acted in line with the terms and
conditions of the policy, carried out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence available to
it and if its decision was fair and reasonable.
The policy provides cover against loss or damage caused by theft and in the case of a fire or
an accident. Mr S says when he discovered his car was missing, he phoned and notified the
police. I can see he then provided Calpe with a crime reference number which enabled it to
obtain a police report. And as Ive seen no evidence to the contrary, Im persuaded Mr S is
no longer in possession of the car. Ultimately, Im satisfied Mr S has done enough to show
he suffered a loss and had grounds to make a claim. But it doesnt automatically follow that
the claim should be paid, that would depend on the other terms and conditions of the policy.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy state:
If You or anyone acting on Your behalf Makes any claim or any part of any claim that is
fraudulent, false or exaggerated or supported by any fraudulent device;
We or the Underwriters may: 
Immediately cancel or avoid Your Policy and/or all other Policies which You have 
with Us from the date of the claim arising.
Refuse to pay the claim in its entirety.
Calpe thinks Mr S provided information, in relation to the claim, which was fraudulent, false
or exaggerated. It is therefore for Calpe to demonstrate this. As it had concerns about the
veracity of the claim, I think it was right to investigate this further. Ive carefully considered
the details of the investigation it carried out and its conclusions. While I accept its concerns,
Im not satisfied its provided sufficient evidence to show Mr Ss claim was fraudulent.
At Calpes request, Mr S provided copies of his bank statements and he has explained that
the payments for the car were made to his friend (the seller) via bank transfer and cash
payments. Mr S also informed the investigators he didnt have evidence to account for the
last £5,000 cash payment he said he made to him. His statements show a bank transfer was
made from his account to an account in the sellers name and he also provided evidence
that ownership of the car was transferred to him on the same date. His statements also show
cash withdrawals as he stated. So, I think he has done enough to show he paid for and
owned the car.
Mr S said after an initial deposit he made when he took possession of the car, he made
further payments over two to three months, I think what he said was reasonable and I find
the bank statements he provided support his account. I accept that Mr Ss recollection of
how he paid for the car differs to that of the seller. On balance, Im more persuaded by Mr
Ss recollections than what the seller said  given the evidence hes provided which supports
his version. I also dont think Mr S can be held responsible for the sellers statement.
Furthermore, I dont find the discrepancies between his statement and that of the seller are
enough to say Mr Ss claim wasnt valid.
Calpe also thinks Mr S gave false information in relation to the circumstances of the claim. It
said there were fundamental differences between Mr Ss initial statement to its investigators
and his second statement to them. I must agree there are inconsistencies in what Mr S said
he was doing when the car was discovered to be missing. Mr S initially said he was at the 
shops and ran back home when he found out the car was missing. However, when
questioned later, he stated he was on his way to work and had driven back.
Considering how distressing it is to have a car stolen, I can appreciate why Calpe would
have expected Mr S to recall the events more consistently when he was interviewed. But I
think its important to highlight that it had been nine months between the two interviews and
almost ten months since the incident occurred, so I dont think its unreasonable for Mr S to
have forgotten some of the details of what happened at the time.
Nevertheless, Mr S maintained that he parked the car overnight and his partner first noticed
the car was missing before she phoned him. He also maintained that he asked her to show
him via video call before he then returned home. So, while I can understand Calpes
concerns about Mr Ss statements, I dont think it means the theft didnt occur and he was
attempting to claim for something he wasnt entitled to. On balance, I think its more likely
than not, that Mr Ss car was stolen, and he suffered an insured loss.Ive read the police report, and it doesnt suggest the police had any concerns regarding the
theft. While it appears to be quite vague, I find Mr Ss statement to the police was in line with
what he initially told Calpe about the incident. I can see from Calpes investigation notes it
questioned Mr S about a claim it said he made on a previous policy which was withdrawn
when the policy was cancelled. Its notes show the claim wasnt investigated by Calpe and I
dont think its concerns regarding that claim mean this claim is fraudulent. Ive also
considered the other points of concern it mentioned in its investigation notes, but I find these
to be circumstantial and I dont think theyre enough to conclude Mr Ss claim was fraudulent.
Following their second interview with Mr S, the investigators suggested that Calpe also
interview his partner, but it didnt do so. Considering his partner first noticed the car was
missing and would have been a witness to the events surrounding the theft, I think what the
investigators suggested was reasonable.
I also note Mr S notified Calpe during the first notification of loss phone call that there was a
council operated CCTV camera nearby, but it didnt request access to the camera footage
until a month later. The council then confirmed that the camera footage was not available,
and it only retained footage for 28 days. In Calpes notes, I can see it first raised concerns
about the claim a day after the incident, so I think it could have attempted to obtain this
footage sooner. While I accept it carried out a lengthy investigation, I think there is more it
could have done to ensure its decision to decline the claim was fair.
Overall, I dont think Calpe has provided sufficient evidence to show Mr S intended to
commit fraud, and benefit from cover he wasnt entitled to when he made his claim. So, I
dont think its decision to decline the claim was fair or reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive mentioned, Im not satisfied Calpe has sufficient evidence to support its
conclusions. So, I intend to tell Calpe to settle Mr Ss claim in line with the other terms of the
insurance policy. It should pay 8% simple interest per annum on any settlement payment it
makes directly to Mr S from the date it declined the claim until the payment is made.
It should also remove from any internal or external databases any record that it declined the
claim or any fraud markers relating to it. Calpe should provide Mr S with a letter to explain
this was done in error. If Mr S has taken new insurance elsewhere, he can present this letter
to his current insurer if he wishes to ask them to recalculate his premium.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided additional comments for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from what I said in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned, I uphold this complaint and require Calpe Insurance Company 
Limited to:
settle Mr Ss claim in line with the other terms of the insurance policy. It should pay 
8% simple interest per annum on any settlement payment it makes directly to Mr S 
from the date it declined the claim until the payment is made.*
It should remove from any internal or external databases any record that it declined the claim or any fraud markers relating to it. Calpe should provide Mr S with a letter 
to explain this was done in error. 
*If Calpe Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman