DRN-4295585
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint concerns Bank of Scotlands (BoS) actions surrounding his attempts to 
make payments to what he thought was a legitimate investment, but which turned out to be a 
scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties. And so I wont go into great 
detail about the circumstances here. In summary:
Mr M was introduced to a fraudulent investment scheme in December 2022. Convinced at 
the time that all was genuine he made a total of three payments towards the investment, by 
first sending funds to another account held in his name:
o£5,000 on 7 December 2022;
o£24,000 on 8 December 2022; and
o£40,000 on 13 December 2022.
BoS stopped the first payment to question Mr M about it. It was concerned he was at risk of 
financial harm from fraud.
Mr M first spoke to BoS on the phone. He told it he was looking to engage in a little bit of 
business and that his other bank had also blocked similar payments. 
BoS said Mr M would have to go into branch to discuss the payment as it wasnt satisfied the 
investment was legitimate. Mr M attended and discussed the payment further. BoS grew 
increasingly concerned, giving strong warnings against proceeding, believing Mr M was 
falling victim to a scam. Mr M was still convinced all was genuine, so BoS invoked the 
Banking Protocol, meaning the police were called.
The police spoke to Mr M and, like BoS, said he was likely falling victim to an investment 
scam. But Mr M wasnt persuaded by what BoS or the police had to say, and he insisted his 
payment was completed. BoS proceeded to do so. 
The second payment was also flagged for additional checks but released at Mr Ms 
insistence. A later attempted payment of £21,000 was blocked and discussed with Mr M. At 
this point BoS took the decision to freeze Mr Ms account and not allow further payments.  
Over the course of the scam, Mr M received credits totalling £3,058.15, which he believed to 
be returns on his investment.
Mr M complained to BoS about its actions. He said it needed to either prove the investment 
was a scam or else release his money. BoS remained concerned that Mr M would continue 
to send money to fraudsters and so decided to close his account.
Mr M brought his complaint as he was unhappy with BoS actions. At this time, he still wasnt 
fully persuaded hed fallen victim to a scam. One of our investigators considered the 
complaint and said it should be upheld, with Mr M receiving a refund of 50% of his loss. She 
said:
BoS were strongly of the view that Mr M was falling victim to a scam. It blocked the 
payment and called the police. And so it should not have allowed the payment to go 
through, even at Mr Ms insistence, given it knew (or at least very much suspected) 
the payment was going toward criminal activity.
Had BoS taken this action, blocked further payments, and perhaps even closed Mr 
Ms account sooner, his losses could have bene prevented.
Mr M ought to bear some responsibility for his loss, given the very strong warnings 
given by the bank and by the police. She didnt think it was reasonable for him to 
proceed after intervention and warnings received.
Her recommendation was that Mr M receive a refund of 50% of his losses. She also said 
BoS should pay simple interest on the refund at 8% per year, calculated from the date of 
loss to the date of settlement.
This outcome was initially put to BoS in a mediatory sense, in an attempt to resolve the 
complaint quickly and informally.  But it didnt agree, saying it had done all it could to protect 
Mr M from the scam. It didnt agree it was wrong to put the payments through given Mr Ms 
insistence.
Our investigator then issued more formal findings which Mr M and BoS have had an 
opportunity to respond to. Mr M accepted hed fallen victim to a scam and gave over no 
further evidence or arguments.
BoS objected to the outcome. It gave no comment about its actions during the scam. 
Instead, it said it should be given an opportunity to investigate the scam claim itself, as the 
complaint had originally been about the blocking and closing of Mr Ms account.
The case has been passed to me as a resolution hasnt been agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. 
A customer will generally be responsible for any payments made from their account that are 
properly authorised, as per the Payment Service Regulations 2017. And a bank should 
typically act on a customers payment instruction without delay.
However, there are times when a bank ought to step in to question payments. Particularly 
where there are signs that a customer is at risk of financial harm through fraud. This 
requirement is well demonstrated by many of the steps BoS took in questioning Mr M.
BoS could see there was a risk of harm and so it spoke to him on the phone and in branch. 
And it also called the police, to help with an intervention. It was doing the right thing by 
following through with all these actions. 
However, Im satisfied that BoS ought not have let the first payment (or any subsequent 
payments) through. BoS had rightly identified the supposed investment opportunity as a 
scam. It was so concerned that the police were involved, who also believed Mr M was falling 
victim to a scam.
I then consider it was wrong to allow payments to go through, knowing a scam was taking 
place, and knowing Mr M was going to be paying money toward a criminal activity. 
BoS evidently understands it can refuse to make payments and, if necessary, close 
accounts. Thats what it did following Mr Ms final attempt to send funds from BoS. It needs 
to be able to do so to protect itself as well as its customers. That action should have 
happened sooner, even if Mr M seemed assured of what he was doing. Had it done so the 
scam would have been avoided.Like our investigator, I have recognised Mr Ms own actions here and I agree he ought to 
have heeded the warnings he was given. Even if the investment seemed initially convincing, 
I find there ought to have been enough doubt and concern generated by BoS and the police 
that he shouldnt have continued. And so its right he bear some responsibility for his loss.
I dont accept BoS argument that it ought to now be given time to investigate Mr Ms scam 
complaint. Its been aware of the scam for a long time now and our investigator even 
attempted to mediate a resolution to the complaint. In response to that mediation BoS never 
suggested there was any issue with proceeding with a scam complaint at this service; that 
objection was only presented after the more formal opinion was issued.
Whats more, we have an inquisitorial remit. Whilst Mr M might have brought his complaint to 
us about the blocking and closure of his account, the scam complaint has naturally flowed 
from it. Its fair and reasonable, and within our remit, to have continued to investigate and 
provide an answer to it.
Putting things right
BoS should now:
refund 50% of Mr Ms total loss; and
pay simple interest on the refund at 8% per year, from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman