DRN-3385832
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) allowed him to go above his approved 
overdraft limit when he had informed it of a gambling addiction.
What happened
Mr H had an overdraft facility with HSBC with a formal limit of £200. At times HSBC allowed 
payments out of Mr Hs account which put him above this limit. In June 2020 Mr H informed 
HSBC that he had a gambling addiction and it placed a gambling restriction on his card.
Following this for reasons that are unclear Mr H was able to exceed his overdraft limit by 
£500 and by July was around £700 overdrawn. HSBC received an account switch out 
request on 1 September but because of the overdrawn amount HSBC wasnt able to close 
Mr Hs account until it was repaid.
In January 2021 Mr H agreed to pay back £100 a month to repay the outstanding balance.
Mr H complained to HSBC about the service he had received, how it handled the repayment 
of the overdraft and that his credit file has been impacted by the actions of HSBC. HSBC 
says that no errors were made but confirmed Mr H wasnt charged any interest or overdraft 
fees between April and September and that all other fees were refunded. HSBC also 
compensated Mr H £225 for the service he had received but said it was unable to amend his 
credit file as there had been no bank error. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Hs complaint and thought that HSBC had dealt with his 
complaint fairly and didnt think it needed to do anything further and so Mr H has asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Where a business accepts (or we decide) it did something wrong, wed expect the business 
to put the consumer in the position they would be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in 
an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a consumer in the position theyd now be in if they 
hadnt been charged the fees and given the credit they shouldnt have and we may award 
modest compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.
So where a business provides a consumer with a credit facility which it shouldnt have wed 
typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any 
interest and charges on that credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the 
interest and charges added to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised the 
credit was wrongly provided. 
HSBC has already done this as well as awarding Mr H £225 in compensation for the service 
he received which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr H might feel that 
HSBC should write off his overdraft debt as he shouldnt have been allowed over his agreed 
limit but ultimately Mr H used the funds and was made aware he was over his limit and 
HSBC is entitled to recoup its losses.
I understand Mr H is unhappy about negative information being reported on his credit file 
and would like this information removed. But HSBC does have a duty to make sure the 
information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to 
is factually accurate and HSBC has confirmed no error has been made in the information 
reported about how Mr H managed his account and the repayment of his overdraft. 
Mr H might be interested to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his credit 
records. The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any 
explanatory circumstances that he would like prospective lenders to take into consideration 
when making lending decisions. If he wishes to do this, he should contact the credit 
reference agencies directly.
So, bearing all this in mind, Im satisfied that what HSBC has already done for Mr H is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what HSBC UK Bank Plc has already done 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So Im not requiring it to do anything 
more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman