DRN-3627871
The complaint
Mr F complains about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr F hadnt used his account with HSBC for a long time. He tried to get a new debit card in 
April 2021 but didnt receive it, so he phoned HSBC on 5 January 2022 to order a new one 
and a PIN. He was told a card had been sent to him in April 2021, but it could be cancelled. 
Mr F was told he couldnt order a replacement card and PIN at the same time to be delivered 
to his home address due to security issues. He ordered the new card and raised a complaint 
about the way his call had been handled. Mr F was also concerned hed been able to order 
the card without being asked any security questions.
When a complaint handler called him back, Mr F was unhappy to be told hed need to call 
again to order a PIN. The complaint handler said she couldnt do so as she was on an 
outbound call with him. Mr F felt she could have ordered the PIN before the call, or asked 
someone else to do so. But his main concern had become the lack of security questions.
HSBC looked into Mr Fs complaints. It explained Mr F had registered for voice verification 
in April 2021 which meant its call handlers hadnt needed to ask security questions. It 
agreed it could have done more to ensure Mr F understood hed been identified and to make 
sure he received a new card and PIN more quickly. It sent him a number of response letters 
and paid several amounts of compensation totalling £450 for the problems hed experienced.
Mr F was unhappy with HSBCs responses - especially the level of compensation offered - 
and referred his complaint to us. When he did so, he completed a complaint form and told us 
he was financially affected as phone calls were very long, he had to use another bank and 
had to drive to the branch costing fuel and parking. To resolve his complaint, he requested a 
handwritten letter from the CEO of HSBC, compensation amounting to £3,750 and further 
written explanations regarding security procedures at the bank.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Fs complaint and felt the compensation paid by 
HSBC was sufficient in the circumstances. He didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr F didnt accept what our investigator said. He told us hed lost £500 as he was unable to 
access his account with HSBC. Our investigator asked for evidence of that loss to be able to 
investigate it further. Mr F was unable to provide any further evidence but said hed 
discussed it in calls with the bank. Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view of 
the complaint. As there was no agreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has provided a lot of information expressing his unhappiness with the service he 
received from HSBC. I wont refer to all hes said; that is not to be discourteous, but a lot of 
the points hes made are things for HSBC to consider and not for me to comment on (such 
as accents of staff, training requirements and fitness of staff to do their jobs). I have read all 
hes sent us but will focus my decision on what I believe to be the crux of his complaint. 
Ive listened to a number of calls Mr F had with HSBC from 5 January 2022 onwards. While 
initially he was only concerned with getting a card and PIN, as things progressed, his main 
concern became that he feels the security system HSBC used to identify him is inadequate. 
But he was also unhappy with the length of time he had to wait for his calls to be answered 
and to obtain a card and PIN. 
HSBC explained to Mr F that hed signed up to voice verification in April 2021. Im aware 
hes since removed that service as he was unhappy with the way it works because it doesnt 
give him the opportunity to answer incorrectly to verify who hes speaking to. While I 
acknowledge his concerns here, ultimately it is for HSBC to have processes in place to 
identify its customers and it has discretion to decide what those checks should be. I dont 
have the power to interfere with that discretion, but if a consumer was to lose out due to 
inadequate checks, I could ensure that was put right.
While I understand his concerns, Mr F hasnt told us hes lost out due to what he sees as a 
lack of checks, hes simply unhappy with HSBCs system. Ive seen nothing which suggests 
anyone other than Mr F has been able to access his account, so I cant make any award to 
him for that. I cant ask HSBC to give him further details of its security procedures; theyre 
commercially sensitive and it would be inappropriate for me to tell it to share them.
Mr F ordered a new card in April 2021, but it appears he didnt call to say it hadnt been 
received until January 2022. I cant hold HSBC responsible for that as it did send a card at 
the time. If Mr F had needed it sooner, Id have expected him to contact the bank earlier than 
he did. Having ordered the card on 5 January 2022, he activated it in a call on 14 January 
2022 and confirmed hed received it a few days earlier. I dont think thats an unreasonable 
time frame, but I acknowledge he had to call again to order a PIN to go with the card.  
Mr F told our investigator that evidence for his loss of £500 is included within the calls he 
made to HSBC. As Ive said, Ive listened carefully to those. Ive heard that he told the 
advisor he spoke to on 14 January 2022, that he wanted to use the card to make a purchase 
online. In that call, the advisor activated the card. So Mr F would have been able to complete 
his purchase  he wouldnt have needed the PIN to complete an online transaction. Ive not 
heard anything else regarding Mr F wanting to use the card to make a purchase or anything 
suggesting a purchase had become more expensive as a result of delays. And as I 
mentioned earlier, Mr F hasnt been able to provide us with any evidence of the loss he 
suffered, so I cant reasonably ask HSBC to cover it.
Mr F is clearly very unhappy with the service he received and particularly the security 
arrangements. He mentioned during several of the calls I listened to, that he planned to 
close his account with HSBC as the other banks he used provided a much better service. He 
is of course free to make that choice. 
Mr F had to go to some considerable effort to obtain a card and PIN. He had to call more 
than once and experienced long queue times and of course, was without a card and PIN for 
that time. Its right he should be compensated for that inconvenience. HSBC has agreed 
things didnt go smoothly for Mr F and it as paid him a total of £450 compensation since April 
2021 in recognition of that.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, but I think the awards made by HSBC are on the high side of 
what Id usually award in complaints of a similar nature. They more than cover any 
reasonable out of pocket expenses he may have incurred as a result such as phone, travel and parking costs. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask HSBC to pay anymore in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman