DRN-3012960
The complaint
Mr L complains that TFS Loans Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mr L was given a single loan by TFS. He borrowed £5,000 in July 2019, and agreed to repay 
the loan in 60 monthly instalments. Mr L told TFS that he would use the proceeds of the loan 
to repay two other debts. A balance remained outstanding on the loan when Mr L made his 
complaint.
Mr Ls complaint has been assessed by one of investigators. She thought that the results of 
TFSs checks should, at the very least, have caused the lender to dig deeper into Mr Ls 
finances. And she thought that if those additional checks had been performed TFS would 
have seen that Mr L was facing severe problems managing his money. So she didnt think 
that TFS should have agreed to lend to Mr L and she asked the lender to pay him some 
compensation.
TFS didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mr L accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ls complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time TFS gave this loan to Mr L required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr L. In practice this 
meant that TFS had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr L undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr L. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr L.
TFS gathered some information from Mr L before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess how much 
he was repaying to other creditors and how hed managed credit in the past.
Mr L was entering into a significant commitment with TFS. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of five years. So I think it was right that TFS wanted to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ls financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above were sufficient to 
achieve that aim  I think TFSs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.
Mr L told TFS that he wanted to use the loan to consolidate some borrowing from two other 
lenders  he told TFS both the names of those lenders and the amounts he wanted to 
consolidate. But when TFS checked Mr Ls credit file it couldnt find any record of the larger 
loan that Mr L said he wanted to consolidate. Whilst that might not be indicative that Mr L 
was being untruthful, it should certainly lead TFS to consider whether the results of the credit 
check were a full and accurate picture of Mr Ls finances. So I think that discrepancy should 
have caused TFS to probe deeper into Mr Ls financial situation.
I cannot be sure what those additional checks would have uncovered. But Mr L has sent us 
a more recent copy of his credit file that allows me to see what was happening with his 
finances shortly before he asked to borrow from TFS.
In the month before asking to borrow from TFS Mr L had taken, and still had outstanding, six 
other unsecured loans totalling more than £6,000. And he had another loan from around 
eight months before that added another £5,000 to his borrowing. And Mr L also had seven 
credit or store card accounts open. Three of those accounts had exceeded the agreed credit 
limit, and the remaining three accounts were at, or just below, the agreed limits.I think that the extent, and recent proximity, of Mr Ls borrowing clearly showed that he was 
facing significant problems managing his finances. I appreciate that he said the loan from 
TFS would be used to consolidate some of his debts  and I think it was entirely reasonable 
for TFS to rely on what he had said. But the loan from TFS would only consolidate a small 
part of Mr Ls total indebtedness. I dont think it was reasonable for TFS to conclude its loan 
would assist Mr L to get his finances back on track.
So, in summary, I think the results of TFSs checks should have led it to conclude that it 
didnt have a full picture of Mr Ls finances. And had it gained that full picture I think it would 
have been clear to TFS that Mr L was facing significant problems managing his finances and 
that any further borrowing would likely be unsustainable. So I dont think TFS should have 
given this loan to Mr L, and it needs to put things right.
  
Putting things right
I dont think TFS should have agreed to give this loan to Mr L. So TFS should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat any payments 
Mr L made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Ls loan account as Ive directed results in Mr L effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Ls loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind TFS that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr L
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation to the loan 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things 
right as detailed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman