DRN-2582708
The complaint
Mr K complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) wasnt willing to pay the cost of 
repairing his car under his motor insurance policy when it was damaged in an accident, and 
he is unhappy with the settlement figure it has offered him.
 
What happened
In August 2020, Mr K was stationery in his car when a garbage truck reversed into the car 
damaging the front of it. He made a claim under his motor insurance policy with Ageas. His 
car was first registered in 2004, and had a recorded mileage of some 145,000 miles.
Ageass engineer said the cost of repairing his car  over £8,900 - would significantly exceed 
its then market value. So it would treat it as a category N total loss. This means there is no 
structural damage to the frame or chassis of the car, and it can be repaired, but the insurer 
has decided not to. Ageas paid him £1,961.50, which it said was its market value 
immediately before the accident.
Mr K complained this wasnt enough for him to replace the car with an equivalent car of 
similar age, mileage, and specification. Having looked for a replacement, he said a figure in 
the region of £5,990 would be needed, which he wanted Ageas to pay him. He said he had 
paid over £5,000 in recent years in maintaining and servicing his car. Ageas wouldnt 
increase its offer, so he complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said the policy 
wording dealing with damage to the car said as follows:
What is covered under this section
This section provides you with cover for loss or damage to the car and its accessories 
caused by accidental or malicious damage, or vandalism.
The insurer will decide either to;
Repair the damage themselves; or
Pay to have the damage repaired; or
Pay to replace what is lost or damaged if this is more cost effective than repairing it; 
or
Pay you an amount equal to the loss or damage.
Ageas had decided to pay the amount of the loss or damage, which was in line with the 
policy wording. However, the wording also made it clear that in considering any claim Ageas 
wouldnt pay more than the market value of the car at the time of the accident. The policy 
defined this as:
The cost of replacing the car with another of the same make, specification, model, age, 
mileage and condition as the car immediately before the loss or damage happened.
 
In assessing market value, and the cost of any replacement, we consider its reasonable for 
an insurer to refer to the various motor trade guides. Having compared three different 
guides, Ageas came up with an average figure of £1961.50. This was slightly more than the 
figure of £1921.66 that the investigator obtained when she ran a similar check. So she didnt 
think Ageas needed to amend the figure it had offered, or to take any further action.
Mr K responded to say, in summary, that:
the way Ageas had assessed market value didnt meet the policy definition set out 
above, or produce a figure that was sufficient to buy a replacement car on the real 
market;
he had spent over £5,000 on the car in recent years which hadnt been recognised; 
and
he thought an appropriate figure would be nearer £5,990.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons the investigator explained, and I have set out above, I think Ageas has 
acted reasonably in considering Mr Ks claim. We consider its reasonable for insurers to be 
able to rely on valuation evidence produced by the motor trade guides in assessing market 
values.
The investigator checked the figures from the trade guides that Ageas had relied on and 
considered the resulting figure was fairly produced. So I dont think the figure Ageas has 
paid is an unreasonable assessment of the market value of the car immediately before the 
accident.
While Mr K says he had spent a significant amount in maintaining the car in recent years, 
this doesnt tend to increase its market value as it needs to be kept running. I accept that the 
cost of repairing Mr Ks car after the accident was more than its market value. So I agree 
Ageas acted reasonably in paying the amount of £1,961.50 under this claim, and dont 
require it to do anything more.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Ageas 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman