DRN-2930247
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the quality of a new car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Skoda Financial Services 
(VWFS).
What happened
In May 2018, Mr S acquired a new car using finance from VWFS. Hes had problems with
the car and wants to reject it. A few days after he acquired the car, Mr S complained to
VWFS as the engine and fuel flap were dirty and a door protector was missing. They issued
a final response dealing with those issues by fitting a door protector and offering to pay for
the car to be valeted.
In August 2019, Mr S complained to VWFS again. He said that during a minor service by the
dealership in November 2018 several fault codes were recorded but he wasnt advised of
them at that time. Then, in July 2019 (by which time, the car had travelled almost 19,000
miles), after collecting the car following a major service by the dealership, a stop-start error
came up and the car wasnt running well. He returned to the dealership who said the
problems were caused by poor quality fuel, but Mr S denied that  he had receipts for high
quality fuel.
Mr S took the car to a different garage who ran a diagnostic check who found numerous fault
codes  including those from November 2018. Mr S says the fault codes identified in
November 2018 (within six months of him acquiring the car) show the car wasnt of
satisfactory quality so he should be able to reject it.
VWFS investigated Mr Ss complaint. They said that they needed to be able to confirm that
the car was faulty in order to have grounds to allow Mr S to reject it. At that time, they felt
they didnt have confirmation of that because the fault codes hadnt been investigated. They
suggested Mr S ask the dealership to investigate but Mr S refused as hed lost faith in them.
VWFS tried to use a third garage, but that fell through due to staff sickness. So, as they
didnt feel there was enough evidence to show a fault, rather than allowing Mr S to reject the
car, VWFS offered to allow him to voluntarily terminate the agreement. 
Mr S was unhappy with that. He referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators
looked into it. Our investigator asked VWFS to arrange for an independent inspection of the
car and they agreed.
The inspection was carried out in June 2020 and the report said:
The car had travelled 20,275 miles.
32 fault codes were stored in the cars diagnostic system but stored fault codes do 
not automatically indicate a fault but highlight items that require further investigation.
The engine started and warning lights performed correctly with the exception of the
tyre pressure and the key battery monitoring systems both of which showed a fault.
There was no noise or rough running observed by the inspector.
The car performed well during a road test.
The report concluded the engineer found the engine performance to be acceptable with no
evidence of misfiring, hesitation or lack of power. However, the multiple fault codes
storedare a concern and it is strongly recommended that these are investigated
furtherand any necessary rectification work being completed.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He said that no repair work was carried out
or advised at the service in November 2018, and Mr S hadnt reported any issues with the
car to VWFS at that time. Our investigator said that the codes hadnt been investigated and
no fault had been identified. And as Mr S had encountered no problems covering 9,500
miles in six months, he couldnt reasonably conclude the car was faulty at the point of sale.
Our investigator noted that Mr S complained to VWFS in August 2019, 14 months after the
purchase having covered 18,900 miles in that time. He felt it was not unreasonable for
VWFS to refuse Mr Ss request to reject the car as there wasnt confirmation of a fault being
present. He thought VWFS had treated Mr S fairly by offering to allow a voluntary
termination of the agreement or trying to arrange for the codes to be investigated.
VWFS accepted our investigators opinion, but Mr S didnt. As there was no agreement, the
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I didnt agree with the findings of our investigator and issued a provisional decision. I said:
As part of this complaint, Mr S has raised a number of concerns about the service hes
received from the dealership. I cant address those issues here as the complaint Ive been
asked to consider is against VWFS and the dealership wasnt acting as VWFS agent in
connection with the issues Mr S is unhappy about.
I can however consider a complaint about the quality of the car against VWFS as they are
the supplier of it under the hire purchase agreement with Mr S. Therefore, VWFS are
responsible for the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says that every contract to supply goods is to be
treated as including a term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. It defines
satisfactory as meeting the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory
taking account a number of factors. It goes to say that the quality of goods includes their
state and condition; freedom from minor defects; and durability.
If a good (in this case the car) is found not to be of satisfactory quality, the consumer may
have the right to reject it in some situations. So my focus in deciding this complaint has been
on trying to establish if the car Mr S acquired was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale
and therefore whether I think he ought to be able to reject it.
Mr S had entered into a hire purchase agreement to acquire a brand new car worth in
excess £28,000 in May 2018. I think its fair to say that a reasonable person (as referred to
by the CRA) would expect a new car of this value to provide a few years of relatively trouble-
free motoring if its of satisfactory quality.
Mr S first complained to VWFS shortly after collecting the car as it was dirty and missing a
door protector. These issues were put right. Later he had the steering wheel replaced in thecar due to unusual wear and tear. This was a brand new car and these concerns were raised
very soon after Mr S acquired the car. Given that the CRA says goods should be free from
minor defects, these issues mean that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. That said, at the
time, Mr S requested a repair of these items and the repairs were carried out satisfactorily.
He appears to have been happy that the issues were resolved.
But following a service in July 2019, Mr S had problems with the car which ended up going
into limp mode. He returned it to the dealership who had carried out the service. They looked
into the problems over a couple of days and decided that the issue was caused by poor
quality fuel and/or the tank running too low. Mr S didnt agree with that diagnosis as hed
always used good quality fuel, so he took the car to a different dealer.
Following diagnostics carried out by the garage, Mr S provided evidence to show that fault
codes were being reported on the car as early as November 2018 when the car went in for
its first service. The fault codes didnt manifest in Mr S experiencing particular problems with
the car, so he was unaware of them until after the second service in July 2019, by which
time there were many more fault codes appearing. Mr S has lost faith in the car so parked it
in his garage and, I understand, it has largely remained there since.
I understand why VWFS were unwilling to accept Mr Ss request to reject the car given that
it was 14 months before he experienced the latest issues and they felt hed not had the fault
codes thatd appeared investigated to establish what  if any - the faults were. But Ive
carefully read the transcripts provided by VWFS between their advisors and the dealers
involved and, having done so, I dont think it was fair for VWFS to refuse Mr Ss request. Let
me explain why.
On 13 August 2019, VWFS spoke to the Dealer Principle at the garage (part of their network
of dealers) who had run some diagnostic tests following the problems Mr S had experienced
with the car. He told VWFS that theyd found 24 different logged faults in it which could
suggest something in the line of a control unit or whatever, but when we look up the part
number for the control unit and match it against the one in the car it seems that isnt right.
From what we can gather, the one in the car isnt for that car. The faults are weird faults
likeits sunroof related fault and the vehicle didnt have a sunroofthis is what led us to
think is it the right control unit or has it been programmed right. After further investigation
into the problem, the Dealer Principle said We got to the point where the numbers didnt
match
So I think at this stage its likely that there is a problem with the car  and one which must
have been present from the point of sale if it contains an incorrect part. I appreciate the
garage didnt want to carry out a repair because it felt a full investigation needed to be
carried out by the dealership.
We also have a transcript of what appears to be an internal call on 14 August 2019 between
the VWFS advisor and a colleague. The member of staff who spoke to the garage said the
person I spoke todid confirm they found faults on the vehicle however, they do not want to
repair it. So VWFS were aware there are faults with the car. The conversation continued
and the colleague suggests the faults may relate to work that had been carried out on the
car. But they acknowledged that the garage hadnt done anything other than carrying out a
diagnostic report, and theres no mention in the call with VWFS, that they felt the faults were
caused by poor workmanship. Further, in calls between VWFS and the supplying dealer, the
dealership says we havent done anything to the vehicle and weve not fitted anything to
the vehicle.
Finally, on 23 August 2019 VWFS spoke again with the garage who said 24 [faults] that
were there wont delete because their problems are still present.There has been very little investigation of the fault codes carried out on the car because,
understandably Mr S is not happy to deal with the supplying dealer. And the garage have
refused to get involved in the matter. A second garage was appointed to look into the faults,
but they pulled out due to staffing issues. VWFS would like further investigation to establish
what has gone wrong with the car, but I dont think thats necessary here. I say this because
I find the comments by the garages Dealer Principle to be very persuasive.
Its clear from the whole transcript that hes concerned about the car and there are problems
with it. Hes said he thinks the control unit in the car may not be the right one as the part
numbers dont match. Given that none of the dealers involved have admitted to changing
any parts on the car, it can only be a problem that was present at the point of sale.
The CRA says that in order to be considered satisfactory, a good should be free from minor
defects and durable. I dont think either has been the case here. There have been problems
from the outset with the car being dirty, missing a part and requiring a new steering wheel
and, from the testimony provided by the garage, there appears to be an ongoing defect. The
fact that a brand new car has encountered the problems Mr S has experienced after just 14
months, tells me that it wasnt as durable as a reasonable person would expect.
The CRA (section 19) gives a consumer a right to enforce terms about the goods including a
final right to reject, if it is established that the goods did not conform to the contract.
Section 24 of the CRA sets out a consumers final right to reject. It says he may do so if:
after one repair or one replacement, the goods do not conform to the contractor the
consumer has required the trader to repair or replace the good, but the trader is in beach of
the requirementto do so in reasonable time and without significant inconvenience.
I can see that there is no dispute that Mr S returned the car to the dealership after he had
problems following his service in July 2019. So they had the chance to repair the car to
ensure it conformed with the contract, but they didnt do so. At that stage, they ought to have
been aware of the numerous fault codes being reported, but rather than investigating further,
they told Mr S there was a problem with the type of fuel he was using. I cant see that the
problems Mr S had here were reported to VWFS at the time. But given VWFS appear to be
keen for the dealership to investigate the problems, if Mr S had contacted them at the time, I
think its likely that theyd have asked him to take it to the dealership. As thats what he did, I
dont think VWFS are in any different position now than they would have been had things
gone as they should.
Mr S has taken the car to another garage as well as having it inspected independently
following further issues with power loss, which suggests there is an ongoing intermittent
issue. Given there are numerous fault codes which cant be cleared, on balance I think there
is an underlying problem with the car.
When Mr S took the car to the garage, they were able to establish that it was likely the 
control unit in the car was not the correct one. I think that can only have been from the point 
of sale. As there have already been at least two repairs carried out and there have been 
additional opportunities to repair but the car still doesnt appear to be of satisfactory quality, it 
is my view that the car has not conformed to the contract from inception, so Mr S should be 
allowed to reject it.
My provisional decision
I am aware that in the time Mr S has had the car, hes covered in excess of 20,000 miles, so
Ill need to take that into account in working out how matters should be put right. The hire
purchase agreement allowed an annual mileage of 15,000 which equates to 1,250 permonth. 20,000 miles equates to 16 months worth of usage.
For the reasons Ive set out, Im minded to recommend that VWFS:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no further cost to Mr S.
Refund Mr Ss deposit of £7,000.
Refund Mr S all payments hes made, less 16 months which represents the use hes
had of the car.
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until
the date of settlement. If VWFS considers that its required by HM Revenue &
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its
taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file in relation to the agreement.
Both VWFS and Mr S have accepted the crux of my decision  that the car should be 
rejected - but each has submitted further arguments regarding the redress I proposed. 
VWFS said that £2,000 of the deposit paid for the car was a dealer contribution 
which means that Mr S paid £5,000 not £7,000. Mr S has accepted that. 
Mr S submitted a number of claims for expenses hed incurred as a result of VWFS 
not accepting his rejection of the car and also sought compensation for the distress 
the situation caused him. 
In my provisional decision, I said in error that the agreement allowed for 15,000 miles a year 
and based the proposed redress on the car having travelled a total of 20,000. In fact, the 
mileage allowed under the contract was 12,000 and the car has now travelled approximately 
23,000. Ive therefore amended the redress slightly to take into account these facts.
Ive shared my thoughts on Mr Ss arguments with both him and VWFS, and will summarise 
them here:
GAP insurance
Mr S says he purchased GAP insurance from VWFS when he acquired the car for £299. I 
think its reasonable that the premium should be returned to him.
Diagnostic tests
Mr S says he paid £48.38 for a diagnostic test in March 2021. But Mr S had the diagnostic 
test carried out rather than have an inspection at a dealer as VWFS had requested. If the 
inspection had been carried out at a dealer, he wouldn't have had that expense. I don't 
propose to ask VWFS to pay for that.
Motor insurance and road tax
Mr S has asked for his motor insurance premiums and road tax to be paid from the date he 
acquired the car. But Mr S had significant use of the car in the first year  May 2018 to 2019, 
and covered a significant mileage, so I cant see any grounds to refund that years insurance premiums. He hasnt claimed road tax for that period, so it seems likely that was covered by 
the dealer as it often is with new cars. 
We dont generally look to refund motor insurance premiums and road tax as the consumer 
will have had to insure and tax any vehicle they had. So if they'd been able to reject the 
vehicle in question sooner, they'd have spent money insuring and taxing the replacement, so 
there's generally no loss. 
Furthermore, Mr S has had some further use of the car. Since the full service in July 2019 
when the car's mileage was approximately 19,000 miles, Mr S has covered around 4,000 
more. That equates to approximately 15% of the mileage allowed under the hire purchase 
contract (12,000 per year for two years) which he wouldn't have been able to do had he not 
insured the car. So I dont think it would be reasonable to reimburse him the whole of any 
motor insurance premium or road tax in any event.
But in this case, Mr S has had very limited use of the car since September 2019 (three to 
four months in to second the insurance contract year  approximately a third of it). VWFS 
were aware of the problems by then and in my view, should have accepted his rejection of it. 
Mr S tells us he hasnt had use of an alternative car  and has only used this one to a limited 
extent. If VWFS had accepted the rejection, he would have had the cost of insuring another 
vehicle, but then he would have had use of a car. In this case, hes kept VWFSs car insured 
while its largely been sat in his garage. I appreciate the terms of the agreement say he must 
keep the car insured, but equally that assumes hell have had use of it up to 12,000 miles a 
year  he hasnt.  
So for that reason, I think its reasonable that VWFS should refund the motor insurance and 
road tax as follows:
2018-2019 2019-2020 2020-2021 2021-2022
Motor 
insuranceNone Two thirds premium, 
less 15%Full premium, 
less 15%Full premium, 
less 15%, 
less any 
cancellation 
rebate Mr S 
receives.
Road tax None Two thirds road tax, 
less 15%Full road tax, 
less 15%Full road tax, 
less 15% less 
any rebate 
Mr S receives.
Mr S should provide evidence of the motor insurance premiums hes paid and, when he 
cancels the current insurance, a copy of the cancellation notice. He should also provide 
details of any rebate he received for unused road tax.
Hire car
Mr S had a pre-booked holiday for which he needed a large car. Due to the issues hes 
experienced, he hired a similar car to enable him and his family to go on the trip. The hire 
car cost £184.74 and Mr S has provided a copy of the invoice. Ive already passed that on to 
VWFS. I dont think his actions were unreasonable, so I think VWFS should refund this.
Compensation
Mr S has made a claim for compensation for loss of enjoyment of the car and due to his 
father having to take public transport for hospital visits. Mr S says he acquired an expensive 
car to allow his father to travel in comfort and avoid the possibility of catching infections as he underwent treatment for serious illness.
I do understand Mr Ss claim for compensation and have some sympathy with it. But I have 
to consider the circumstances of the case as a whole. 
VWFS asked Mr S several times to have the car inspected at one of their network of dealers. 
They'd acknowledged that fault codes were being reported, but as has been explained 
several times, the presence of fault codes alone, doesn't necessarily mean there is a fault. 
So I think this was a reasonable request at the time and may well have facilitated rejection of 
the car much earlier. 
My decision is based on the fact that I think, on balance, it's likely there is a fault with the 
car. The only way of being sure, is for it to be inspected as VWFS has suggested. We don't 
have proof of a fault because the car hasn't been taken for inspection. So I dont think that it 
would be reasonable for me to make an award for compensation for loss of enjoyment when 
Mr S hasnt taken the steps necessary to allow VWFS to have the fault codes inspected, 
which may have led to the earlier resolution of this complaint. 
Further, I acknowledge his comments regarding the appointments his father had to attend, 
and that this will have been upsetting for Mr S. As a service we're only able to make an
award of compensation for the problems caused by a business to their customer, not to third 
parties such as family or friends. While I appreciate Mr S will have been disappointed not to 
have been able to facilitate his fathers transport for the appointments, I can't make an award 
for inconvenience it caused his father rather than himself. 
VWFS havent responded to my comments concerning Mr Ss latest claims. Mr S has, but I 
dont think hes raised anything materially new that hasnt already been considered or 
discussed in my provisional decision or here. That being so, I think the redress Ive set out 
below is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
In the time Mr S has had the car, hes covered in excess of 23,000 miles, so Ill need to take 
that into account in working out how matters should be put right. The hire purchase 
agreement allowed an annual mileage of 12,000 which equates to 1,000 per month. For the 
reasons Ive set out, VWFS should:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no further cost to Mr S.
Refund Mr Ss deposit of £5,000.
Refund Mr S all payments hes made, less one months payment for each 1,000 
miles the cars covered which represents the use hes had of the car.
Refund the GAP insurance Mr S paid.
Refund the motor insurance premiums as set out in the table above. Mr S will need to 
provide evidence of the premiums hes paid, and any refund following cancelation of 
this years contract.
Refund the road tax payments as set out in the table above. Mr S will need to provide 
details of whats been paid for this year and any refund he receives following 
cancellation.
Refund the car hire costs Mr S incurred for his holiday. Ive already sent VWFS a 
copy of that invoice. 
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until
the date of settlement. If VWFS considers that theyre required by HM Revenue &
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr S how much theyve taken off. They should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file in relation to the agreement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Skoda 
Financial Services should put matters right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman