DRN-2697368
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service provided by Wilson Tarquin Limited following instruction to 
look into payment protection insurance (PPI) claims on his behalf.  
What happened
Following an enquiry made by Mr S in July 2019, Wilson Tarquin received a signed 
engagement letter to pursue potential PPI mis-sale claims on Mr S behalf.
The terms and conditions document explained:
Definitions
Claim Service means identifying whether PPI or PBA was sold, preparing, 
submitting and negotiating your claim(s) to the Creditors
4. Our fees
A. We charge a total fee of 24% (including VAT) of the gross Compensation in 
relation to a PPI policy awarded to you
5. Cancelling this agreement
Section A
You have the right to cancel your Agreement with us at any time. You can do this by 
notifying us via telephone, email or post using the contact details in clause 9. 
Section 5.E
if we have obtained relevant information from you and submitted the Relevant 
Claim to the Creditor whom we believe sold you the relevant product, but less than 
8 weeks have elapsed since we did so, the Cancellation Fee will be a sum equal to 
the reasonable cost of any work we have carried out for you to date (capped at £75) 
per Relevant Claim (emphasis added)
Lender T
Mr S signed a letter of authority authorising Wilson Tarquin to look into claims against lender 
T on 13 July 2019. 
On 22 August lender T confirmed Mr S had taken out PPI. On 23 August Wilson Tarquin 
contacted Mr S and it was explained:
You are now entitled to make a claim for compensation from them. The next stage 
is to raise a letter of complaint You will have a 14-day cooling off period from us 
raising the complaint to your lender
Mr T agreed to proceed with the claim against lender T. Wilson Tarquin sent a letter of 
complaint to lender T. 
On 12 September Mr T emailed Wilson Tarquin saying:
 Apart from [lender T] I do not believe there is any claim against the other lenders 
mentioned and I would be obliged if you would discontinue any further investigation 
into all lenders mentioned, including [lender T]. In view of the fact that on two 
occasions you failed to telephone me when you said you would I assumed that you 
were no longer acting on my behalf and consequently I am now acting on my own 
behalf. 
Having not heard anything, on 24 October Mr T contacted Wilson Tarquin by phone saying, 
I would be obliged right now, if you would remove my name and my details from your 
database will you please confirm that you will not contact me any longer. The 
representative confirmed Ok I will put a note on the system now regarding your concerns
On 11, 13, and 26 November Mr T contacted Wilson Tarquin by phone unhappy that his 
details had not been removed, and that theyd failed to confirm cancellation of his claims. His 
comments included: you have utterly failed to respond I reiterate that I require you remove 
all details concerning me and my affairs from your database immediately and confirm in 
writing in an email that this has been done and You have completely disregarded my emails 
which is unprofessional and rude and Im sick to death of you and I have received no 
response which is massively unprofessional, and Id like this matter sorted out now.
On 27 November Wilson Tarquin wrote to Mr S about his claim against lender T saying, 
Unfortunately we have been unsuccessful in all our attempts to gather the additional 
information required by the lender to continue with your complaint this has unfortunately 
now resulted in a cancellation fee of £150 including VAT being made chargeable to yourself. 
Mr S contacted Wilson Tarquin questioning why hed been charged a cancellation fee when 
hed not had a response to any of his earlier cancellation requests. Mr S asked for the 
complaints team to contact him as he was unhappy with the service received, and 
cancellation fee demand. Mr S also sent a letter of complaint on 4 December. 
Wilson Tarquin attempted to contact Mr T by phone on 5 December, but Mr S was unable to 
speak as he was at work. 
Mr S contacted Wilson Tarquin by phone on 13 January 2020 unhappy that hed not heard 
back after the call of 5 December, and saying I want a letter saying that this matter is closed 
as far as you are concerned This request was again not responded to. 
Lender S, lender B and lender L
On 23 August 2019 Mr T signed a letter of authority authorising Wilson Tarquin to look into 
claims against lender S, lender B and lender L. Following confirmation of PPI, these claims 
were sent to each lender in November 2019, March 2020, and July 2020 respectively. An 
offer of compensation was confirmed by lender S in July 2020, and by lender B and lender L 
in August 2020. Mr S was sent invoices from Wilson Tarquin for their success fee to be paid 
for these claims.  
Unhappy that Wilson Tarquin had continued to act for him against his specific instructions for 
them not to, Mr S referred his complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a 
Financial Ombudsman service) for us to investigate.
The investigator found that Mr S had cancelled all his claims by email on 12 September 
2019. As this was within 8 weeks of the claim being sent to lender T, a cancellation fee of 
£75 should apply, but as Wilson Tarquin hadnt acted fairly in their lack of response to Mr S 
cancellation request, this fee should be waived. The investigator didnt think a cancellation or success fee should apply to any of the other 
claims because these claims were still within the free PPI check period so Mr S shouldve 
been entitled to cancel them free of charge. 
Mr S accepted these findings. Wilson Tarquin rejected these findings saying that:
-There is only ever reference the client wanting to close [the Lender T] casefile back 
in October 2019.
-Even so, as per our terms and conditions, if the client achieves an upheld claim, 
based on the work we have done, then the cancellation fee is 24% of the upheld 
offer. Due to auto convert, this would have been applicable to all of the clients files.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it was passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators outcome on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
In response to the investigators findings Wilson Tarquin provided a new set of terms and 
conditions applicable to Mr S complaint, saying that these terms and conditions allowed 
Wilson Tarquin to auto convert any claims found to have PPI. In practice this would mean 
that Wilson Tarquin would make a claim on Mr S behalf for any claims where PPI was 
found, without gaining his consent before doing so.  
I havent found any evidence to persuade me that Mr S was aware of his claims being 
processed in this way. On the contrary, Mr S own testimony is that he believed he was 
signing up for a free PPI check only. 
Ive considered the evidence overall to determine what was explained to Mr S about how the 
claim would be processed, and what Mr S ought reasonably to have understood by this.
Ive reviewed both sets of terms and conditions sent by Wilson Tarquin. These terms and 
conditions dont make any specific reference to there being a two stage process which would 
involve Mr S providing additional consent to continue with a claim after being informed about 
PPI being found. However Ive also considered what Mr S has explained about what he 
understood the service to be when he signed up, and what he was told on 23 August 2019 
when he was contacted by Wilson Tarquin about PPI being found with lender T. 
During the call on 23 August it was explained The next stage is to raise a letter of 
complaint You will have a 14-day cooling off period from us raising the complaint to your 
lender. This information matches what Mr S has explained about the PPI process only 
starting after him being informed of PPI being found, and consenting to a claim being 
pursued on his behalf. 
Mr S consented to the claim with lender T going ahead. However, just over two weeks later, 
on 12 September, Mr S sent an email asking Wilson Tarquin to discontinue any further 
investigation into all lenders mentioned, including [lender T]. In response to the investigators findings Wilson Tarquin have said that There is only ever 
reference the client wanting to close [the Lender T] casefile back in October 2019. I dont 
agree. I think Mr S email of 12 September clearly informed Wilson Tarquin that he didnt 
want them to act for him anymore on any of his claims. 
The cancellation terms and conditions refer to clause 9 as providing the relevant contact 
details for giving cancellation instructions. Ive checked the email address provided in clause 
9 and it matches the email address Mr S sent his 12 September cancellation email (and 
subsequent cancellation email of 11 November) to. So Im reasonably satisfied that Mr S did 
all that was required to give Wilson Tarquin notice of his request to cancel his claims.
I wouldve expected Wilson Tarquin to have acted on this request in September 2019. If this 
had happened, Mr S wouldve been sent a cancellation invoice for the claim with lender T, at 
a cost of £75. The claim was sent to lender T on 23 August. Mr S sent his cancellation email 
on 12 September, and so less than 8 weeks [had] elapsed. So the cancellation cost for the 
claim wouldve been £75 in line with the terms and conditions. 
Wilson Tarquin say Mr S wouldve also been sent a cancellation invoice for his remaining 
claims if cancellation had been accepted in September 2019. But I dont agree that this 
wouldve been a fair approach to take. 
In September 2019, Wilson Tarquin had only sent requests to Mr S lenders to find out if PPI 
had been attached to any of his accounts. None of these lenders had confirmed the 
existence of PPI at the time of Mr S provided his cancellation notice on 12 September. 
Based on what Mr S was told during the call of 23 August, I think it was reasonable for him 
to believe that these claims were still within the period where he could cancel without 
charge. At the time, no letter of complaint had been made, as the existence of PPI had not 
been confirmed. So I dont think Wilson Tarquin wouldve been entitled to ask for 
cancellation costs to be paid for any of these claims.
Even if I were to accept that cancellation costs wouldve applied for the outstanding claims, 
looking at the facts of this complaint, I dont believe it would be fair or reasonable to ask Mr S 
to pay these costs.
I say this because the level of customer service provided by Wilson Tarquin throughout Mr S 
dealings with them has been below the standard wed expect, and extremely poor. 
Mr S sent two cancellation emails to Wilson Tarquin- both of which went unanswered. I have 
listened to the calls Mr S had with different representatives, from October 2019 to January 
2020. During these calls Mr S made it clear that he was unhappy with the service, and 
wanted Wilson Tarquin to confirm in writing that theyd stopped acting for him, and that all 
his claims had been closed. 
Aside from one cancellation letter sent in November 2019, Wilson Tarquin failed to respond 
to any of Mr S requests for confirmation that all his claims had been cancelled. 
Instead Mr S was caused trouble and upset in having to continually chase Wilson Tarquin 
about cancellation of his claims. Its evident from the case notes that not only did Wilson 
Tarquin fail to respond to Mr S requests, but they also continued to work on his claims, 
despite his strict instructions for them not to. The standard of service here was well below 
what wed expect. Because of this I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Wilson 
Tarquin to charge any success fees for the successful claims, or cancellation costs. 
Having considered what Wilson Tarquin have explained about the auto-conversion terms, 
the information Mr S was told on 23 August about the cooling off period, and the way Mr S claims have been handled, I think a fair outcome is for Wilson Tarquin to waive any 
outstanding invoices/ cancellation fees, and cancel any outstanding agreements with Mr S, 
at no cost to him. This outcome feels fair given the numerous attempts to cancel by Mr S 
before any claim was submitted to lender S, lender B and lender L, and also reflective of the 
breakdown in relationship between the parties. 
Putting things right
Wilson Tarquin Limited is directed to waive any outstanding invoices and/or cancellation 
fees.  
Wilson Tarquin Limited is also directed to cancel any outstanding agreements with Mr S, at 
no cost to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint.
Wilson Tarquin Limited is directed to follow my directions above for putting things right. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman