DRN-3952200
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) treated him, when he 
raised several chargeback claims with them.
What happened
In the summer of 2022, Mr K complained to RBS about several debit card payments that had 
left his account. All of the payments Mr K had complained about, were paid to retailers 
offering similar services. To make it easier Ill call these retailers R.
After RBS spoke to Mr K, they said they couldnt start a chargeback claim for the card 
payments made to R. They said Mr K hadnt shown he had cancelled all of his agreements 
with R and this was needed under the chargeback scheme rules they have to follow.
But, as a gesture of goodwill, RBS refunded a total of £357.92 to his current account. RBS 
say this refund covers any card payments made by Mr K to R, over thirteen months. They 
also say this was the most time that a chargeback claim would have refunded, if they had 
been able to start one.
RBS also helped Mr K speak to a team who could help, if he needed to cancel any 
subscriptions still with R. 
Mr K didnt accept RBSs response and brought his complaint to us. He said that because of 
his personal circumstances, his very poor memory and his health, that the time limits within 
the chargeback rules, dont apply to him.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks case and found that RBS had treated him fairly. 
She said Mr K couldnt prove hed cancelled the subscriptions with R, so RBS didnt have to 
start a chargeback request.
The investigator also said RBSs refund of all the payments made to R over a thirteen month 
period, as a gesture of goodwill was fair. The investigator said RBS had offered help, by 
giving Mr K a direct contact to help cancel his subscriptions with R.
Mr K didnt agree with this and said over forty different retailers had taken money from his 
account over the last five years. And because of his circumstances, RBS should refund 
every payment.
The investigator didnt change her outcome, so Mr Ks complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has told us about his very difficult personal circumstances. Im aware of the difficulties 
and the worry the circumstances Mr K has described must cause. Particularly when trying to 
manage his bank account. And Id like Mr K to know that Ive very carefully considered how 
his circumstances affect his day to day life.
Mr Ks debit card from his current account with RBS was used to make payments to R. RBS 
is a member of Visa which provides card services. And Visa has rules which includes giving 
RBS a way for card transactions to be disputed with retailers through the chargeback 
process. 
Sometimes, when a cardholder has a dispute about certain transactions, like Mr K does, 
RBS, as the card issuer, can try to go through the chargeback process. This isnt a right for 
customers and banks dont have to raise a chargeback. But its good for banks to raise a 
chargeback when they think they will be able to get money back for their customer. 
In Mr Ks case, he says he contacted RBS in August 2022 and told them about his poor 
memory. He said he couldnt remember if he had agreed to any payments to R, but wanted 
them to be refunded. I can also see from RBS notes that Mr K hadnt been able to show if 
he had tried to cancel any subscriptions with R.
I think this left RBS unsure if Mr K had agreed any payments to R. They also had nothing to 
show if Mr K had tried to sort things out with R first. From looking at what happened, it 
seems RBS didnt think they should raise a chargeback dispute.
Part of the chargeback process is for a customer to give a reason for a disputed payment. 
Normally, this would be where a customer pays for goods they havent received, or where an 
unauthorised payment is taken from their account. I agree with RBS, that it was unlikely any 
chargeback request would win. So, I dont think RBS treated Mr K unfairly by not raising 
chargebacks about payments to R.
However, as a gesture of goodwill, RBS refunded all the payments made to R from 
November 2021, to the date of their final response letter in October 2022. The amount 
refunded to Mr K was £357.92, covering 18 separate payments to R and included a payment 
of interest.
RBS have also placed a stop on Mr Ks account, so any more payments requested by R 
shouldnt leave his account. I think this was helpful for Mr K. But it seems that he would 
needs to cancel any subscriptions with R, to make sure no more payments are taken from 
his account.
Mr K has told us that his personal circumstances could prevent him from contacting R, to 
cancel the subscriptions. But, I can see from RBS records that they have offered to help him 
to do this. 
In August 2022, RBS wrote to Mr K and said that they are able to complete dispute forms for 
him, if more payments are taken from his account. RBS have also made a record of Mr Ks 
personal circumstances and have asked him about the best way they can help him manage 
his account.
Overall, I think RBS have tried to help Mr K with his disputes with R, by refunding payments 
as a gesture of goodwill, where they didnt have to start a chargeback claim. I also think RBS 
have offered Mr K more help, if he needs to dispute payments in the future. In all the 
circumstances, I think RBS have treated Mr K fairly.
Visa has a set of chargeback rules. These rules say a claim about cancelled services must 
be raised to RBS no later than 120 days after a payment is made. Or, if the services are to 
be provided at a later date, the claim shouldnt exceed 540 days from when a payment is made.
I know Mr K says RBS should automatically refund every payment to R over the last five 
years, because of his personal circumstances. This is longer than the chargeback rules 
allow. So, I dont think RBS responsibility to Mr K goes further than the chargeback rules set 
out by Visa.
I accept Mr Ks overall point that RBS should make adjustments to help him in light of his 
needs. Having considered everything though, I think RBS have given Mr K a way to raise 
chargeback claims, in a way he says will help him. So, I dont think RBS need to do anything 
else to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman