DRN-3476836
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd (BBI) unreasonably and 
unfairly refused to pay her claim under her pet policy.
What happened
Mrs K has an Elite Extra Perfect Pet policy underwritten by BBI for her dog. It covers vet fees 
up to £4,000 per year. Sadly, in October 2021 Mrs Ks dog became unwell and less active. 
Mrs Ks vet thought it was back pain and referred Mrs Ks vet to a specialist vet who 
identified her dog was suffering an intervertebral disc extrusion which required surgery. 
Mrs K then made two claims cover this treatment. BBI on reading the vet history decided Mrs 
Ks claims were excluded because the vet history noted her dog was overweight some time 
previously and its policy doesnt pay claims, if the pet was overweight. Mrs Ks vet and the 
referral vet disagreed that Mrs Ks dog was overweight, but BBI wouldnt change its stance.
So, Mrs K, having had to borrow money from friends and family to pay the vet fees, brought 
her complaint to us. The investigator thought it should be upheld. BBI disagreed so Mrs Ks 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
As BBI is aware, whilst cases are decided on their own merits and facts at this service, I 
have decided a previous case on this clause in this policy, again upholding the complaint 
against BBI for very similar reasons too. 
BBI refused to pay Mrs Ks claim on this basis on 5 November 2021:
To confirm, our policies do not look to cover any conditions where your pet has been 
deemed overweight and has a condition associated with this. Please may we refer 
you to your policy wording:
What is not insured?
General Exclusions
12. If in the opinion of a Vet Your pet is overweight and this results in Your pet 
needing Treatment.
Whilst reviewing your claim, your vets have noted the following in [name of dog] 
medical history:
 08/12/20 12:36 All ok at home, no problems, BCS 7/9, ideal weight around 10kgs
 18/10/21 10:36Weight updated from 11.780(Kg) to 11
Due to [name of dog] being noted as overweight within the clinical history, we would 
be unable to provide cover for this claim and no payment will be made on this 
occasion.
This clause ensures most importantly the overweight aspect must result (my emphasis) in 
the claim. In the vet history whilst there is mention of Mrs Ks dog being potentially 
overweight in 2020, there is singularly no evidence in the vet history that this resulted in this 
dogs condition which required surgery which is the cause of the claim. 
So initially I dont consider BBIs invocation of this clause as a reason to reject the claim was 
sufficient or at all reasonable and fair. It ought to have made further enquiries at that stage 
with Mrs Ks vet and the subsequent referral vet or indeed produced some vet evidence of its 
own to link any potential weight issues with the cause of Mrs Ks claim. Its extremely 
unreasonable in my view, to simply run through the vet history looking for any weight entries 
and then deny any claim regardless of what it is (apparently), on that basis and regardless of 
how long ago any weight issue might be mentioned. There must be coherent evidence that 
the weight issue caused the condition, which is now being claimed, on the basis of the 
wording of this clause, for which BBI is anyway responsible. And this wasnt the case here.
Further this is BBIs burden of proof too, to connect the weight issue to the cause of the 
claim. Its grossly unreasonable to simply rely on a vet entry concerning weight issues, 
without then connecting those weight issues to the cause of claim and thereby at least 
attempting to discharge its burden of proof in invoking the clause in the first place. 
Further Mrs K appealed BBIs decision. And both her vet and the referral vet supported her 
and frankly made sense of the vet history entries plus referenced the weight issues properly 
to the cause of the claim. Mrs Ks vet said the following:
[Name of dog] was seen by myself most recently on 08 January 2022.1 can confirm 
that at this time she weighed 10.6kg and was in an ideal Body Condition Score. This 
therefore supersedes the subjective estimate that 10kg is an ideal body condition 
score for [name of dog] as noted in December 2020. This also confirms that at the 
time of her degenerative disc disease, weighing 11kg she was not overweight, and at 
11.8kg she would not have been significantly overweight.
I would also like to bring your attention to the policy details  It is my professional 
opinion that [name of dog] is not overweight.
Intervertebral Disc Disease is a degenerative condition not related to weight, 
therefore her weight did not 'result' in her requiring the treatment and cannot be 
declined on the policy wording.
And the referral vet said the following: 
[Name of dog]s claim was declined due to her being overweight in December 2020. 
Her approximated ideal weight was written as 10kg by her referring veterinarian; 
however, I saw [name of dog] on 21/10/2021 and can confirm that she weighed 11kg 
and was not overweight, with an appropriate body condition score.
She was diagnosed with an Intervertebral disc extrusion, for which she required 
surgery. Intervertebral disc extrusions (IVDEs) occur in dogs of every weight, and there is no evidence that body condition score is associated with IVDEs in [breed of 
Mrs Ks dog]. IVDE is known to be a degenerative condition of the disc itself, and I 
fail to see how her weight in December 2020 could have caused an IVDE ten months 
later.
I believe this claim has been wrongly declined, her weight is not the cause of her 
condition  in particular, this does not make sense in her case, as she was not 
overweight at the time it occurred.
So, these two treating vets have clearly explained that weight issues have no bearing on 
developing intervertebral disc extrusions. I consider thats very significant. And far more 
importantly that actually Mrs Ks dog was not overweight at the time she developed this 
condition either, which is clearly referenced in the vet history too. I consider that BBI were 
erroneously and very unfairly relying on a historical note about potential overweight without 
then noting that the dog had subsequently reached a weight with an ideal body condition 
score at the time she developed this condition and required treatment for it. 
Despite BBI having received the above, it continued to refuse to change its stance on its 
decision on Mrs Ks claims. I dont find that reasonable or fair either. More so, when the 
investigator fully explained the issues to BBI in his view. However, BBI merely said it 
disagreed with the investigators view, without detailing any coherent reasons at all. This was 
despite this overwhelming evidence from Mrs Ks treating vets. That in turn simply served no 
other purpose that creating further delay and inconvenience on Mrs K and her unpaid valid 
claims. Its simply not good enough service to Mrs K to fail to give coherent reasons for 
refusing to pay her claims in the first place and then to continue to refuse to cover her 
claims, just simply ignoring the overwhelming evidence, that its initial refusal to pay Mrs Ks 
claims was just wrong. So, I consider BBI should now pay Mrs Ks claims with interest, 
subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
BBIs refusal to pay Mrs Ks claims in accordance with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions caused her significant upset and inconvenience. More so since she had to borrow 
from friends and family to pay these vet fees. And more so since BBI refused to consider the 
significantly persuasive treating vet evidence in Mrs Ks favour at every stage along the way, 
simply causing more delay to the settlement of Mrs Ks claim without any coherent 
reasoning. Therefore, as BBI is now aware, I am increasing the compensation it should pay 
Mrs K to £200 to take account of this unnecessary increased delay and consequent upset to 
Mrs K, given her treating vets evidence.   
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd to do the following:
Pay Mrs Ks claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date Mrs K paid her vet to the date it 
refunds her. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate 
documentation should be provided to Mrs K for HMRC purposes. Pay Mrs K £200 compensation for the unnecessary delay, distress, and 
inconvenience it caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman