DRN-2050101
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about poor handling of a claim for an escape of oil under their home 
insurance policy with the National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU).
What happened
Mr and Mrs Gs home was damaged by an escape of oil in January 2018 and they claimed 
to NFU. Mr and Mrs G said NFU and its agents caused many problems with their claim 
concerning poor workmanship, delays, and poor communications. They brought a complaint 
to our service and this was upheld by our investigator in November 2018 and compensation 
totalling £500 was paid to Mr and Mrs G for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs G brought a new complaint to NFU about delays after November 2018, and the 
time taken to rectify poor work. They said their boiler hadnt been properly connected by 
NFUs contractor. NFU apologised for poor service and ongoing problems with the claim. 
NFU arranged a meeting in December 2019 for Mr and Mrs G and a senior claims technician 
to progress the claim and paid them £800 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr and Mrs G werent satisfied with this response. They said at the December meeting they 
were promised that NFU would get their claim moving, but they only received one email in 
January with no real information. They said thered been little follow up action from NFU and 
they want proper management of their claim. And they brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said there had been 
delays and NFUs loss adjuster should have maintained better contact. But NFU had 
apologised, appointed new contractors and agreed to address the snag list. He thought the 
further compensation of £800 for these problems up until November 2019 was fair.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed saying they brought their new complaint because there were lots of 
unrectified problems. They said monitoring the contractors work on behalf of NFU and its 
loss adjusters had taken them away from their business activities. They said the requirement 
for a second planning application wasnt actioned for six months. And they said NFU should 
pay them £5,000 compensation and requested an ombudsman review their complaint.
Mr and Mrs G have recently told us they havent had any communication from NFUs loss 
adjuster since 24th February when they were copied into a reply to NFUs email asking the 
loss adjuster what was going on. Mr and Mrs G said there has been some building work on 
the claim that they arranged but they dont know what work is left to be done. NFU said there 
were delays due to the coronavirus outbreak, but repairs are nearly complete.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wanted to write a decision to cover events up to the present so that there would be no need 
for any further complaint. However, the claim still hasn't been finished and so I have 
restricted myself to the same period as the investigator, between November 2018 and 
November 2019. This means that I can only consider events that Mr and Mrs G raised in 
their second complaint. NFU responded to this in November 2019 and paid further 
compensation of £800. 
Our investigator thought the compensation paid by NFU for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr and Mrs G was fair. It is my role to decide if the compensation paid by NFU for 
avoidable problems is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. 
I have looked at NFUs records of the claim and Mr and Mrs Gs timeline and comments 
about the events. I can see that NFU was aware of the outstanding issues with the boiler 
and building works in July 2019 and from that point ought to have progressed the claim to 
completion. But, as NFU has acknowledged, this didnt happen, and Mr and Mrs G were left 
facing little progress. 
Its clear from the communications between the parties that Mr and Mrs G were already 
frustrated about the poor workmanship and delays from their first complaint and were now 
left to chase progress on their claim whilst trying to run their businesses. 
I can well understand Mr and Mrs Gs frustration at the time taken to identify and agree 
rectification work and to make planning applications. It appears that Mr and Mrs G spent 
much time monitoring NFUs contractors and felt that they were fulfilling the role of NFUs 
loss adjusters to ensure their claim was properly resolved.
From my review of the claims history I have reached a similar conclusion to Mr and Mrs Gs, 
that theres been very slow progress by NFU leading to avoidable delays at each stage of 
the claim. NFUs handling of the claim has been characterised by a lack of overall 
management, particularly of its agents and contractors, whos delayed follow-up action has 
let all parties down. Im pleased that NFU has apologised to Mr and Mrs G for this, and I 
think the compensation of £800 its paid for their distress and inconvenience during this one-
year period is fair.
It is now more important than ever that NFU resolve all outstanding issues and manage the 
claim to a conclusion. NFU needs to ensure that effective communication takes place with 
Mr and Mrs G about what remains to be done. However, it remains open to Mr and Mrs G to 
bring a further complaint for the period of the claim from November 2019 should they wish to 
do so. If they choose to do so I would recommend that they wait until all aspects of the claim 
have been finished.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld as 
I consider the National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limiteds payment of £800 
compensation to Mr and Mrs G to be a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience they 
have been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman