DRN-3890999
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as M has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was forced to 
close due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ms B and Mrs M, directors of M, have brought the complaint on Ms behalf.
What happened
M held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. It claimed on the policy after it was 
required to close due to a devolved governments actions in response to Covid-19.
RSA declined the claim. It said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a 
result of a notifiable disease at the premises, M hadnt shown that thered actually been a 
case of Covid-19 at its premises. It also said M wasnt covered under the denial of access 
extension to its policy as there hadnt been any damage to property in the vicinity of the 
insured premises which would have hindered or prevented the use of or access to the 
premises.
M brought its complaint to our service. It said it had been required to close by the 
government due to Covid-19. It believed RSA should cover the claim as in substance 
Covid-19 had led to the closure of its business. M also thought the Supreme Court judgment 
in the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case (the FCA test case) should make a difference 
to the outcome of their claim.
Our Investigator looked into Ms complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought 
RSA had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. She said 
there was nothing to suggest that M had closed its business due to a case of Covid-19 at the 
premises. And as there hadnt been a case of Covid-19 at the premises, the claim wasnt 
covered.
M asked for an Ombudsmans decision. Ms B said before the business was required to 
close, Mrs M and some other staff had continued working at the insured premises while very 
unwell with Covid-19 symptoms. She thought it was reasonable to assume Covid-19 had 
manifested itself at Ms premises.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ms business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ms claim.
The most relevant part of Ms policy covers loss as a result of:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the 
Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the Premises
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on 
the business premises to have been the result of a case of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, so Ive considered the 
information I have to decide whether I think its most likely there was a case of Covid-19 at 
Ms premises.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic and the government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result, or conclusive diagnosis, from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to 
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
manifested itself at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the 
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its 
policy covers.
I have to bear in mind that many of the people who were unwell in March 2020 didnt have 
Covid-19. And given that I only have Ms Bs testimony to support the fact that Mrs M and 
some of Ms staff had Covid-19 symptoms and she hasnt provided any information about 
those symptoms, I dont think its sufficiently convincing to conclude that there was most 
likely a case of Covid-19 at Ms premises before it was required to close.  As Ive said, many 
people at this time experienced symptoms of diseases other than Covid-19 such as colds 
and flu. As such, I think it was fair and reasonable for RSA not to accept that there was a 
case of Covid-19 at Ms premises before it was required to close. 
M has referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the FCA test case. However, the test case 
didnt consider all policies or all terms, and whether a claim should be paid still depends on 
the wording of the policy and circumstances of the claim.
Ive carefully looked at the rest of the terms in Ms policy. But I dont consider Ms claim 
ought to have been met under any of them. I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to 
M. But, having considered the matter carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay 
Ms claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman