DRN-1943851
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with Lloyds Bank PLCs decision to block a payment, and subsequently his 
account.
What happened
Mr W held an account with Lloyds. Mr Ws Father sadly passed away and in May 2019, Mr 
W received money from his Fathers Estate into his account.
In June 2019, Mr W attempted a transfer from his Lloyds account to an account in his name 
with another bank. The payment was rejected by Lloyds.
Mr W spoke to Lloyds on the telephone and passed security. Lloyds then asked Mr W what 
he was intending to do with the money he was trying to transfer. Mr W refused to answer 
Lloyds question and said it wasnt their business. Lloyds wasnt happy with Mr Ws response 
so explained they wouldnt be able to make the transfer and asked Mr W to go into branch 
with his identification.
The next day, Mr W went into his local Lloyds branch with his ID. The branch staff asked Mr 
W his intentions with the money, and where the money came from. Mr W wasnt happy they 
continued to ask him about his intentions. And he explained the money had come from his 
Fathers Estate. Lloyds rejected the transaction and blocked Mr Ws telephone and internet 
banking so he couldnt make any further attempts of the transfer until their questions had 
been answered.
A few days later, Mr W provided Lloyds with a letter from his solicitors  however, this had to 
be translated as it was in a different language so Lloyds couldnt act on it straight away.
Lloyds asked Mr W to come back into branch and when he arrived, he was met by two police 
officers. Mr W says they interrogated him but didnt ask for his ID or ask him what his 
intentions were with the money. After speaking to the police, the Lloyds branch staff made 
the transfer and removed the block from Mr Ws account.
Mr W is unhappy with how Lloyds treated him  he doesnt think they should have been able 
to refuse his transfer or block his account based on personal information. And he wants to 
know why they didnt have concerns about the money when it was transferred into his 
account.
The investigator who looked into things didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. She said Lloyds 
acted in line with their legal and regulatory obligations when reviewing and blocking the 
payment. And she thought they had reasonable concerns to ask additional questions.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator. I know this isnt what 
Mr W wants to hear, so Ive explained my reasons further below.
Ive considered Lloyds actions when reviewing Mr Ws account. Lloyds, like all UK banks, 
are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory 
obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing 
relationship. That means they sometimes need to review and block customers accounts. 
Lloyds have said that Mr Ws accounts were reviewed and blocked to meet these legal 
requirements. And having looked at all the available information and circumstances of this 
complaint, Im satisfied that Lloyds was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations. 
So, I cant say they have done anything wrong. 
Lloyds have explained they reviewed things because of a security trigger following an 
attempted transfer of around £5,000 out of Mr Ws account using his mobile banking app. 
Because of that, it was necessary for them to ask additional questions around the transfer. I 
appreciate Mr W thinks the information Lloyds asked for is a breach of his privacy, and I 
recognise how strongly he feels about this. But I cant agree. Lloyds have a duty to protect 
their customers and their money  they wouldnt be doing that if they didnt follow up on any 
concerns. I understand Mr W didnt have any concerns himself, and he is aware of where the 
money came from and what he intended to do with it  but he chose to trust Lloyds to protect 
his money when he opened his account with them. 
Lloyds should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm if they have any 
concerns. This is particularly so in light of the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years - which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
Mr Ws account was blocked to allow Lloyds to carry out a full review. Ive thought about how 
long the review took  and it was less than two weeks. Ive considered Lloyds actions during 
this time and Ive seen evidence that they were proactive with their investigation and in trying 
to obtain further information. They also continued to ask Mr W questions during this time and 
Im pleased that Mr W assisted with some of their investigations by providing them with a 
letter from his solicitors. Based on this, Im satisfied Lloyds didnt cause any undue delays. 
Mr W said he had to use his credit card as his Lloyds account was his primary account. 
However, Im aware Lloyds allowed Mr W to be able to use his debit card  and it was only 
his internet and mobile banking facilities which were blocked. So, while Ive considered what 
Mr W has said, I cant agree that he couldnt make payments using his Lloyds account like 
he usually would.
Following their review, Lloyds asked the police to have a conversation with Mr W about the 
transfer. I note Mr W says the police didnt ask about his actual intention with the money. I 
dont know the specifics of the conversation which took place between the police and Mr W. 
But I am aware Lloyds asked the police to talk to Mr W to alleviate their concerns they had 
with the transfer of the money. This is normal banking practice and based on the 
circumstances, Im satisfied Lloyds took the appropriate action to avoid any further delays to 
Mr W making his transfer. I appreciate Mr W doesnt think this was in his best interests as 
Lloyds didnt tell him hed be questioned by the police. I find it reasonable Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr W about the polices involvement until he got to branch. If Mr W had fallen victim to a 
scam, Lloyds wouldnt want to risk the scammer finding out about the concerns and 
preventing Mr W from attending branch. Lloyds actions were put in place to protect Mr W 
and his money.Once the police confirmed they were happy there was nothing untoward happening with the 
funds, Lloyds removed the block and transferred the payment.
I appreciate Mr W wants to know why Lloyds didnt have concerns when he received the 
money into his account  but the security trigger only happened with the attempted transfer. 
Lloyds had concerns and therefore put restrictions in place to protect Mr W from what could 
have been an attempt of fraud. And because of that, I cant fairly say Lloyds have acted 
inappropriately.
Overall, I recognise how strongly Mr W feels about whats happened, so I realise hell be 
disappointed by my decision. But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Lloyds 
have acted unreasonably when they reviewed and blocked his account. So, Im not going to 
ask them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman