DRN-3149371
The complaint
Mr P has complained that he was given unsuitable advice by Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
invest in the Barclays Managed Growth fund. 
What happened
In March 1999, Mr P was advised to invest £6,000 in the Barclays Managed Growth fund 
within a Personal Equity Plan (PEP). He surrendered it in 2006 and received around £7,000 
back. In 2020 he complained via a claims management company (CMC) that the investment 
had been mis-sold. The CMC said that as an inexperienced investor, he was advised to take 
too much risk and was advised to invest too much of his available money.  
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. At the meeting Mr Ps partner was present, who Ill call 
Ms P. They said Mr and Ms P had sufficient disposable income and that Mr P was left with 
an adequate reserve fund. They said the fund matched Mr Ps attitude to risk of medium, so 
the level of risk was suitable too. However, Barclays did pay Mr P £100 for delays in dealing 
with the complaint. The CMC, on behalf of Mr P, disagreed with the outcome of the suitability 
of the investment, and so brought the complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She said that the risk definitions 
werent clear, and as a first-time investor, Mr P wouldnt have fully understood the risk 
involved in the investment. She disagreed with the amount of disposable income that 
Barclays said he had, of £580, because that was based on Ms Ps income as well as his, so 
he wouldnt have had full use of it. 
Barclays didnt agree  they said the fund invested in blue chip companies, not speculative 
shares, and the government was promoting investments of this type. They felt Ms Ps 
income should be taken into account, as they were both present at the meeting. They 
maintained that the investment was suitable, due to Mr Ps age, investment horizon and the 
fact he was self-employed, which meant he would have been more familiar with making 
financial decisions. As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind, the case has 
been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. 
At the time of the advice Mr P was 28 and had been working for ten years as a self-
employed tradesman. At the meeting with the Barclays adviser, Mr Ps aim was to talk about 
his savings. He had £10,000 in deposit accounts, hadnt previously invested and his monthly 
income was £1,380. The adviser didnt record a detailed breakdown of Mr and Ms Ps 
expenditure, but they recorded that jointly, Mr and Ms P had £580 per month disposable 
income.   
Mr Ps attitude to risk was recorded as medium but theres nothing in the suitability letter or 
fact find that details what was discussed around this. The only note appears in what I believe 
is a Barclays internal document, which says, under Additional Comments that Mr P was 
Looking for growth. Unsure about risk. Its possible that this statement can be interpreted in 
two ways  the first that he was wary of taking any risk, and the second that he was not sure 
how much risk he wanted to take. Having carefully considered which I think is more likely, I 
think its the second interpretation and Ill explain why. 
Barclays has said that the adviser would have explained the definitions of the four available 
risk levels  risk averse, low risk, medium risk and high risk. In my opinion the definition of 
risk averse clearly states that it involves some guarantee and a wish to avoid any loss. As 
Mr P didnt pick that category, I think he was willing to take some amount of risk, which is 
why I think the second option is more likely the meaning of the above note in the internal 
document.  
Ive considered whether Mr P would have been able to make an informed decision about 
how much risk he wanted to take. The definitions of low and medium risk were:
Low Risk  You are a reasonably cautious investor. You require a significant proportion of 
your savings to be in cash form. For the remainder of your investment, you are prepared to 
accept fluctuations in capital values to achieve your longer term investment objective. 
Medium Risk  You are a more typical investor, requiring a proportion of your savings to be 
in cash form, but less than that of the low risk investor. Again, you are prepared for 
fluctuations in the value of the remainder of your investment, to obtain the prospect of higher 
long term returns to match your investment goals.
In my opinion it would have been tricky for first-time investors to grasp the difference 
between those two risk levels  other than the amount of money the investor is willing to hold 
in cash. For instance, typical investors and significant are subjective terms and could 
easily sway a consumer to one risk level over the other, without really ensuring they 
understand what the different levels of risk entail. Because of this I think the risk levels are 
not very clear and would be quite subjective depending on the individual investors 
understanding. Theres also nothing that sets out the different assets that are likely to be 
involved in funds at the different risk levels  and the types of return and fluctuations that 
each asset type could involve. This is especially important here, given that Mr P was a first-
time investor, so had no previous experience to inform his understanding.  
Barclays has said the adviser would have taken Mr P through the product literature, which 
included risk warnings. The key features document Ive been provided with is dated slightly 
later than Mr P invested and is from February 2000 and I believe this is the closest Barclays 
has, due to the passage of time. I think its likely the key features will have been quite similar 
in 1999 despite the time difference, given that funds are designed as long-term investments 
and so the objectives of the fund are unlikely to have changed much at all in just a year. So, 
I think its fair to rely on the documents Ive seen, in order to make a finding in Mr Ps case.
Ive looked at the warnings in the key features brochures and can see they do include 
general warnings about how the value will be subject to fluctuations, both due to the prices 
changing and the currency risk attached to the overseas investments. However, they dont 
illustrate how drastic the fluctuations could be, nor do they further explain the different levels 
of risk. Ive seen no evidence that the risk of equity investments, compared with the risks 
involved in other assets like fixed interest or property, were explained to Mr P.Considering all of the above  that Ive found the risk definitions werent clear, that Mr P 
wasnt given any information about the different levels of risk of different asset classes  I 
dont think he was able to make a fully informed decision about the amount of risk he wanted 
to take. Ive noted Barclays comments that because he was self-employed, he would have 
been more used to making financial decisions. However, Ive not seen anything to suggest 
he would have known any more than an average first-time investor, so I dont agree with 
Barclays on this point. 
If he had been given clearer information, I think its unlikely hed have chosen to take the 
amount of risk that this fund presented. This is because he was investing 60% of his life 
savings, and having never invested before, I think its unlikely hed have been willing to place 
quite that much at the level of risk involved in this fund.
The Managed Growth fund is a fund that invests in other funds and in 2000, it consisted of 
72.95% in UK funds, 26.69% in overseas funds, and 0.36% in cash/cash equivalents. There 
is evidence that some of the underlying funds involved fixed interest investments though 
Barclays has not provided any information about the underlying asset mix of the fund in 
1999. However, they have previously told our service that the asset mix of the funds in 2001 
meant that around 73% was invested in equities at that time.
Barclays have said that the fund invested in mostly blue chip companies, not speculative 
shares. However, from the description of the investment strategy, and the titles of some of 
the underlying funds I dont agree that the fund only, or even predominantly, invested in blue 
chip companies. For instance, titles like the Smaller Companies Fund, and the b2 Market 
Track 350 Fund suggest investment in non-blue chip companies. Theres no mention in the 
fund managers strategy of blue chip specifically, or descriptions of similar, more traditionally 
stable, types of investment. Theres also still significant risk of capital loss even with blue 
chip companies  they follow the market in times of wider market downturns.  
Barclays has also said that investments of this type were backed as government initiatives 
to encourage equity ownership amongst the wider population. This is largely irrelevant  
simply because the government was encouraging people to invest, or providing tax 
incentives to encourage people, doesnt mean that investing in shares was suitable for 
everyone. So, I dont agree that the investment was as safe as Barclays is making it out to 
be in their submissions to our service. Its a fund that appears to have invested in a range of 
investments which collectively had the potential to expose a large proportion of Mr Ps 
money to a significant risk of loss.
Ive also considered Mr Ps capacity to take the risk involved here. I dont agree with 
Barclays that Mr P truly had £580 per month available as disposable income. This amount 
would not have been his alone to use toward making up any losses he experienced in this 
investment, as it was made up of Ms Ps income too. Ms P, although present at the meeting, 
was not receiving advice about her savings and was there for a different matter. Though they 
were both present at the same meeting, they were receiving separate advice about their 
individual needs. 
There was no detail recorded about how the figure of £580 was calculated, including 
whether that was simply their disposable income after essential spending, or if it included 
amounts for things like food and clothing. Its unclear whether they equally contributed to the 
household and how much each had left over at the end of each month. With all that in mind, 
I dont think its fair to say the whole £580 would have been his to spend, or save, as he 
wanted. 
Mr P was self-employed with no pension provision at all at the time of the sale. I appreciate 
that Mr P was in his late 20s and would have had a long period of time pre-retirement to save and make up for any losses. However, given the lack of pension provision, and the fact 
we dont know what his true disposable income was, Im not convinced it was suitable to 
advise him to risk so much of his money. 
Taking that alongside what Ive said above about his attitude towards risk, Im persuaded 
that Mr P was advised to take out an unsuitable investment and have set out below how 
Barclays should put this right. 
Barclays has also offered £100 for delays in dealing with the complaint. This has already 
been paid and this issue has not been raised by Mr P with our service. So, I will not be 
making a finding on this element of the complaint, as its not in dispute.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
P as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Mr P would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr P's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Barclays do?
To compensate Mr P fairly, Barclays must:
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Barclays should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Barclays 
Managed 
Growth fundNo longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Barclays 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal from the Barclays should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Barclays totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr P's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr P into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
P would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr P could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should provide details of its calculation to Mr P in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman