DRN-2882688
The complaint
Mr D complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with BMW Financial
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS), trading as Mini Financial Services, was misrepresented
to him because he is unable to obtain the mileage range he was promised or charge the car
in a reasonable time.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator suggested BMWFS should commission an independent inspection of the
car. I dont think that view went far enough. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
Ive considered whether this car was misrepresented to Mr D and Ive also considered
whether it can be considered to be of satisfactory quality.  
misrepresentation
The relevant law says that if Mr D was given false information and if that false information
led him to enter into a deal he would not otherwise have entered into, then I could consider
the deal had been misrepresented.
Mr D has explained that he reviewed the manufacturer literature when making his decision to
buy the car. He has explained that literature suggests a mileage range of 140-145 miles and
hes only achieving a maximum of 90.
Ive had a look at that information. It explains that the mileage range is provided for
comparison only. Whilst I can understand Mr D may have expected better, I dont think its
fair to suggest there was a promise the car would deliver that range. The range is published
so that a direct comparison can be made between other cars when they are put through the
same test. I think its fair to say that those test conditions are unlikely to be repeated in real
world driving.
Mr D has also explained that hes noticed the dealership advertise the car as having up to a
145-mile range. I dont think that can be said to be misrepresenting the cars potential as,
whilst I understand its a rather vague statement, its clear the car has delivered up to that
range.
So, Im not persuaded a false statement of fact was made and I dont think this car was
misrepresented to Mr D.
was the car of satisfactory quality?
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr D. The car here was brand 
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
The issue here has been identifying whether there is a fault with the car.
Mr D reported a problem with the range he was achieving, and with the charging of his car,
within the first 30 days.
BMWFS say there is no evidence of a fault. They have relied on the supplying dealers
assessment to support that view. They agreed to carry out an independent inspection to see
if the fault could be identified. But the independent inspection company have explained that
they dont have the facility to test the DC charging and therefore wont be able to assess the
fault.
In the absence of an independent engineers assessment I have considered the evidence
that has currently been provided and Im persuaded there is evidence of a fault with this car.
Ive reviewed the job card from the supplying dealership that was provided when they were
first able to inspect the car after the coronavirus lockdown. The dealership said:
HV battery charge too long. Cause  connect ISTA + carried out diagnostic check. Serial
charging faults stored. 1 x current for DC charging. Unable to test DC as we do not have
facilityfault occurred 1 x 798km. No further action.
Theres also a comment on the job card saying, On supercharge it takes 1.5hrs  supposed
to be 30mins.
So, the dealership did find fault codes but couldnt test the cars ability to DC charge and
have noted that this charging takes three times what it is supposed to take. Whilst I can
accept that charging times may vary. I dont think a reasonable person would expect them to
take three times as long as specified by the authorised dealership.
I think that, along with the presence of fault codes and Mr Ds testimony that he was only
able to achieve a maximum of a 90-mile range, suggests there probably is a fault with the
DC charging on this car.The relevant legislation says that if a consumer returns a car with a fault within the first 30
days he has a right to reject the car. In those circumstances there is no right for the business
to repair the vehicle.
Mr D reported a fault with the car in April 2020 and within the first 30 days. The clock
stopped when he reported the fault and, as Ive found a fault was most probably identified
when the vehicle was subsequently inspected, I think Mr D should be allowed to reject the
car.
Im therefore expecting to tell BMWFS to collect it and end his finance agreement.
They should refund any deposit Mr D has paid and they will need to add 8% interest to that
refund as Mr D has been deprived of the money.
Mr D has been able to drive the car and its only fair that he pays for the use hes had from it.
But that use has been impaired as I am persuaded hes not been able to achieve the range
he should have in the car and the charging of the vehicle has taken longer than it should.
The relevant legislation allows the business to retain some of the instalments to compensate
them for the use the consumer has had from the car. Im expecting to tell BMWFS to retain
90% of all instalments paid but they should refund the other 10% in respect of lack of use
and add interest to that refund as Mr D has been deprived of that money.
Mr D has also been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to continue driving a car that
wasnt performing as it should have been, and hes had to escalate his complaint to this
service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances I think
BMWFS should pay him £250 in compensation for the distress, inconvenience and lack of
enjoyment in the new vehicle, that he experienced.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am expecting to uphold this complaint and tell BMW
Financial Services (GB) Limited to:
collect the car at no cost to Mr D and end the finance agreement;
refund any deposit paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement; 
refund 10% of all finance instalments paid in respect of the lack of use Mr D has 
experienced;
pay Mr D £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience and the loss of
enjoyment hes experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ds credit file in relation to
this issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMWFS didnt provide any further information and they accepted my provisional decision.
Mr D said hed asked BMWFS to allow him to reject the car within the 30 days and had they 
done so he would have been entitled to all his money back. He explained that because 
BMWFS had not allowed him to reject the car he had now lost payments of over £6,000 and 
he wanted me to consider refunding all those payments. He said it wasnt fair to suggest 
BMWFS should keep 90% of the payments hed made.Ive thought about what Mr D has said but Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional 
decision. I dont think it has proven easy to diagnose the problem on Mr Ds car and in the 
absence of a diagnosis of a fault BMWFS were understandably reluctant to allow a rejection. 
Im persuaded on balance that there is a fault with this vehicle, and I understand Mr Ds 
frustration because hes had to drive a car that he hasnt been happy with. But I dont think it 
would be fair to refund all the instalments Mr D has made. Thats because I think its fair he 
pays for the use hes had from the car. Hes experienced a shorter range than expected and 
longer charging times, but he has been able to drive the car and Ive not seen evidence that 
its driving performance has been impaired. On balance, I still think a 10% refund for lack of 
use is appropriate.
Putting things right
Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional decision and that now becomes my final 
decision on this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
collect the car at no cost to Mr D and end the finance agreement;
refund any deposit paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement; 
refund 10% of all finance instalments paid in respect of the lack of use Mr D has 
experienced and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
pay Mr D £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience and the loss of
enjoyment hes experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ds credit file in relation to
this issue.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman