DRN-3326351
The complaint
Mr G complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes -Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr G was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire agreement with 
MBFS. The contract reached maturity in June 2021.
At the end of the contract the car was inspected and collected. Following collection, the car 
was inspected again. MBFS invoiced Mr G for damage charges and excess mileage 
charges.
Mr G disputed the damage charges. He said there was damage identified at the second 
inspection which hadnt been identified at the first inspection. 
In response, MBFS said the damage charges had been raised correctly.
Mr G remained unhappy and complained to this service. He didnt think it was reasonable 
that the agent had taken a long time to inspect the car at the first inspection but that more 
damage had been identified at the second inspection. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that the BVLRA guidelines allowed the 
leasing company to arrange collection of the vehicle and complete a second inspection later. 
The investigator said she had reviewed the final inspection report and thought that the 
damage charged fell outside fair wear and tear.
Mr G didnt agree. He thought the charges were unfair and felt that some of the damage had 
been caused in between the first and second inspection. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr G must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. Ive also had 
regard to MBFSs vehicle returns standards, which set out what is considered acceptable 
wear and tear. 
Mr G has said that he doesnt think its fair that hes been charged for damage which wasnt 
identified at the first inspection. Hes also said that he believes some of the damage 
occurred in between the first and second inspections.
Ive looked at the BVLRA guidelines. These say that a leasing company can make an initial 
assessment of damage at the collection inspection and can make a final assessment of 
damage at the second more detailed inspection. Mr Gs hire agreement says that when the 
car is returned to MBFS, it will carry out a vehicle return standard inspection at its defleet 
centre.
I understand that Mr G feels that the first inspection took a long time and that he doesnt 
understand how the damage identified at the second inspection could have been missed. 
However, I think its clear from the agreement that the car was going to be subject to a 
second, more detailed inspection. The first inspection is generally to check for obvious 
damage and to check that the car is roadworthy. Its not unusual for further damage to be 
identified at the second inspection. Following the second inspection, MBFS advised Mr G of 
the charges within the recommended 28 day timescale. Taking everything into consideration, 
Im unable to say that MBFS has done anything wrong or acted unfairly in arranging a 
second inspection.
Mr G has said he doesnt think all of the damage was present when the car was retuned 
following the first inspection. MBFS has confirmed that the collection agent didnt report any 
post collection damage. I havent seen any other information to suggest that the car was 
damaged following collection. Looking at the photos of the damage, I think its more likely 
that the damage is longstanding damage, as opposed to recent damage. On balance, I think 
the damage was more likely to have occurred during the time the car was in Mr Gs 
possession, rather than in the 24 hours between the first and second inspection.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. Looking at the damage identified, 
Im satisfied that it goes beyond acceptable wear and tear in accordance with the guidelines. 
Im therefore satisfied that the charges have been applied correctly. 
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman