DRN-3278064
The complaint
Mr K, one of the directors of T - a limited company - complains about how GPUK LLP, 
trading as Global Payments, dealt with a number of chargebacks raised against T.
What happened
As the background to this complaint is well known to both T and Global Payments, I wont 
repeat in detail what is already known to both parties. 
Instead, in my decision Ill focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. Our 
investigator considered this complaint and he recommended that it not be upheld. As T didnt 
accept his recommendation, the complaint has been passed to be for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Extensive submissions have been provided by both T and Global Payments as part of this 
complaint. In my decision I wont comment on every point raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy to either party in this complaint  it simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service.
At the heart of this complaint is Ts view that its been treated unfairly by its merchant 
services provider - Global Payments - when a number of chargebacks were raised against T. 
In my decision Ill address the chargebacks raised as part of this complaint that T 
complained to Global Payments about and received a final response letter. This concerns 
the four chargebacks received in August 2019 (which Ill refer to collectively as chargeback 
1) and the chargeback dated 12 September 2019 (chargeback 2). A further chargeback 
totalling £2,700 wasnt addressed in the final response letter which addressed this complaint  
- so doesnt form part of this decision.  
It's important to state that in any complaint like this about how a merchant service provider 
dealt with chargebacks raised against a merchant (T), Im not considering the outcome of the 
chargebacks. That decision would (ultimately) be made by the card scheme arbitrator based 
on the relevant card scheme rules if the issuing bank and merchant service provider were 
unable to come to an agreement on the chargeback. 
The primary role of Global Payments in these chargebacks was to notify T and give them a 
fair opportunity to provide supporting evidence if they wished to defend the chargebacks and 
- where appropriate, pass that information to the issuing bank in Ts defence to try and 
resolve the chargeback. 
Chargeback 1
The card holder raised chargeback 1 (4 transactions) as they said they were unable to travel 
due to not receiving their tickets. They further added that two of the transactions werent 
authorised by them. T disputed this and provided some evidence to mount a defence. Global 
Payments specifically asked for supporting evidence of the tickets being provided to the 
customer. 
As outlined already, its not the role of our Service to arbitrate on the merits of a chargeback 
dispute. 
Although T says that Global Payments did not properly investigate the chargebacks after 
being given all the relevant and requested information, the evidence Ive seen doesnt 
support this. I say this because Global Payments asked for specific information that would 
show the tickets being received by the card holder as well as evidence that the card holder 
had authorised two of the disputed transactions. T responded with internal system 
screenshots which they say show that the tickets had been marked used, copies of travel 
visas and they say this meant they had to have been delivered to the card holder. 
Given that the crux of this chargeback was that tickets hadnt been received, I dont find it 
unreasonable that Global Payments would ask for evidence that the tickets had been 
received. For example Global Payments asked for proof that the tickets were delivered 
physically and evidence that the referenced travel visas were emailed to the card holder. T 
provided some evidence (copies of the visas and system screenshots of tickets marked as 
used), but not the specific evidence that Global Payments requested.  
Similarly, for two of the payments that formed part of this chargeback dispute, T didnt 
provide sufficient supporting evidence that the card holder had authorised the payments. 
On balance, I find that Global Payments have treated T fairly and in line with the terms of 
their agreement when making them aware of these chargebacks and engaging with a 
defence of the chargebacks on their behalf for so far as the evidence provided allowed it to 
reasonably do so.
Chargeback 2
For this chargeback, T is unhappy that Global Payments didnt continue to defend it. The 
relevant terms set out the chargeback process:
Well always advise you by letter of the chargeback prior to the debit being applied 
to your account. Whether we can defend the chargeback depends on whether the 
transaction has complied fully with the rules set by Mastercard or Visa. In the 
event additional information/documentation is required from you, youll receive 
notification in writing [bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman] and the disputed 
amount will be debited to your account. If we write to you, its crucial that you 
return the requested information, in a clear format, to us within the timescale 
stipulated in our letter. Failure to do so may prevent us from taking any further 
action in defending the chargeback within the time allowed. [bold added for 
emphasis by Ombudsman]
In my opinion, sufficient time was allowed for T to provide specific supporting evidence. 
Global Payments say they didnt receive Ts defence until after the deadline given had 
passed - so they were unable to continue defend it. Global Payments dont set the 
timeframes for the chargeback process. These are set by the relevant Card Scheme. The 
relevant terms around this are also set out in the merchant operating instructions:Each chargeback has specific rules, regulations and time limits within which Global 
Payments must operate. These are set by Mastercard and Visa and influence the 
actions were able to take when dealing with chargebacks..
I find that Global Payments have acted in line with the agreement terms and havent treated 
T unfairly as their further response wasnt received by the deadline given - meaning that 
Global Payments couldnt further contest the chargeback with the issuing bank. 
Summary 
Having considered all of the evidence, I find that Global Payments has treated T fairly and 
reasonably when these chargebacks were raised. 
In their final response, Global Payments have told T: you may consider pursuing this dispute 
directly with the cardholder through alternative proceedings. But my decision brings to an 
end what our Service  in trying to informally resolve this dispute with Global Payments  
can do for T.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman