DRN-2276441
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car that was supplied to him through a hire purchase
agreement with The Asset Exchange Ltd (AEL). Mr P believes AEL misled him into
purchasing the car.
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint and my initial findings were set out in my 
provisional decision of 15 June 2021, which said:
On 20 September 2019 Mr P was supplied a second-hand car through a hire purchase
agreement with AEL. The car was registered on 18 May 2016, which means it was about
three years and five months old at the time of supply. The cash price of the car was £10,999
and it had travelled 40,573 miles. Mr P put down a deposit of £50 so the credit agreement
was for £10,949 payable over 60 months.
Mr P explained that the car is a special edition model. It has a two-toned paintwork, with
black covering the front two thirds of the car and a red paint covering the rear third.
Prior to purchasing the car AEL repainted the drivers door as part of a previous repair. On
completion of this work Mr P inspected the car and went ahead with the purchase. Mr P has
provided correspondence he had with AEL at the time relating to this.
On 13 February 2020, Mr Ps car was involved in a collision. According to Mr P, damage was
sustained to the drivers front wing, the bumper and passengers front tyre. Mr P says the
damage was repaired by the insurer. However, during the repairs it had been highlighted to
Mr P that the paintwork to the drivers door had a different texture to the rest of the paint on
the car.
In March 2020 Mr P corresponded with AEL in relation to the difference in paintwork. He
complained that AEL should be held liable for this as they had supplied him the car in that
condition. AEL asked Mr P to provide an estimate for repairs, however, Mr P explained that
for various reasons, like the costs involved, he hadnt obtained an estimate.
On 15 May 2020 AEL provided their final response (FRL) to Mr Ps complaint. They didnt
uphold his complaint but left it open for him to re-open the complaint should he be able to
source the necessary estimates for repair.
On 18 June 2020 a post rectification inspection was carried out by an independent engineer
on the repair work that had been completed following the collision. Their report concluded
that the passenger door, front wing, rear wing, and A post (the roof support pillar on either
side of a cars windscreen), displayed signs of a previous repair which were of a poor
standard. They recommended the entire respray of all textured panels to obtain the right
colour match and textured mix. Mr P confirmed the works were completed as part of the
repair.
Mr P felt AEL were responsible for providing him with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality.
However, as hed already received his FRL, he brought the complaint to us here.
Mr P explained the inconvenience caused to him and would like compensation for what has
happened.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator felt that as
AEL hadnt been provided with any evidence or been given the opportunity to inspect the
car, he couldnt see how they had done anything wrong. Mr P disagreed with the
investigators view saying that it only came to light during the inspection that the other panels
had been repaired and that its likely the B knew about it when they supplied the car to him.
Mr P asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
In June 2021 I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge the correspondence that Mr P has sent to our service for my attention. within
it Mr P provides an explanation of events since being supplied the car and explains why he
feels AEL were at fault, how its affected him and what he believes he should receive by way
of resolution.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good
industry practice at the relevant time.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service
is able to consider complaints relating to it. AEL is also the supplier of the goods under this
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) applies to contracts which supply goods to a
consumer and is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract to supply goods, there is
an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for purpose and as
described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods would need to meet
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems
likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would consider
might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
My starting point is AEL supplied Mr P with a second-hand car that had travelled 40,573
miles and was over three years old. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable
person would expect the level of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car or one with
lower mileage; and that there may be visual signs of wear and tear due to its usage. I think
the expectation of wear and tear would extend to the paintwork, particularly where in the
circumstances of this complaint, repairs were carried out prior to supply.
Mr P was made aware that the drivers door and the rear quarter required localised repairs.
This is apparent from the emails between Mr P and the dealer prior to him acquiring the car,it was also apparent on the pre delivery inspection document provided to Mr P at the point of
supply. I acknowledge Mr P has said as a lay person for this type of thing I accepted the
word of the business, however, after the works had been completed Mr P was given the
opportunity to view and inspect the car prior to making a decision. And I think its fair to say
that when a car is viewed or inspected, the general quality of the paintwork would be
evident. Mr P has confirmed that he was satisfied with the quality of the paintwork at that
point. And he went on to use the car without issue until the collision some months later. So,
Im satisfied that Mr P was given a fair opportunity to consider the quality of the paintwork
prior to agreeing to purchase it.
Having said that, Ive considered that in certain circumstances, something that is said prior to
supply, or a description applied to the car might change the expectations of it. However,
beyond a localised repair to the door, I havent seen any evidence that specifically points out
what had been agreed between Mr P and the dealer about the intended finish. So, from the
information provided I dont think that AEL hadnt delivered on a particular promise. Im
persuaded they provided a car with paintwork that at the time of supply was of satisfactory
quality and was acceptable to Mr P.
Mr P has said that had he known about the inconsistent textured paint he wouldnt have
entered into the agreement with AEL. Had the paintwork been an integral, or the deciding
factor in Mr P acquiring the car, I dont think it would have been unreasonable for Mr P to
have placed more emphasis on this. Throughout this complaint Mr P has placed a lot of
emphasis on the aesthetic qualities and its importance to the car, hes also said that this was
one of the main reasons hed purchased it. But I havent seen any evidence at the point of
supply to support his strength of feeling towards it. For example, requesting or arranging for
a professional inspection of the paintwork repair to ensure the preferred specification or
consistency had been achieved by the dealer.
So, having considered all the information provided, for the reasons above Im satisfied that
Mr P hadnt been mis-sold the car. Im also satisfied the repairs carried out on the car prior to
supply, hadnt rendered it to be of unsatisfactory quality. So, in the circumstances, I wont be
asking AEL to do anything in relation to this.
AEL responded to say they didnt have anything further to add to my provisional decision. 
However, Mr P responded to say that he didnt accept it. Mr P made some further comments 
which Ill address below. 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within his response Mr P gave the following reasons (mainly) why he disagreed with my 
provisional decision:
the emphasis (of the provisional decision) should have been on mis-selling and 
breach of contract through misrepresentation
the provisional decision hadnt commented on the terms of the agreement, 
particularly in relation to the interest rates that had been applied The points above are not exhaustive but a summary of what I considered to be the main 
issues raised in Mr Ps response to my provisional decision. To be clear, Ive considered all 
the information provided by both parties in relation to this complaint, however to maintain the 
informal approach of this service Ive focussed on what Ive considered to be the main issues 
here.
the emphasis (of my decision) should have been on mis-selling and breach of contract 
through misrepresentation.
In my provisional decision I referred to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) as being 
relevant in the circumstances of Mr Ps complaint. The CRA says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. So, the CRA is relevant for complaints involving mis-
representation as well as satisfactory quality.
In my provisional decision I concluded that I didnt think Mr P had been mis-sold the car, 
mainly because I hadnt seen any evidence of what had been agreed about the intended 
finish prior to the car being supplied to Mr P. So, Im unable to say whether AEL had 
contravened any prior representation of the car to Mr P, or that they hadnt delivered on any 
particular promise they may have made to him. So, Im satisfied that my provisional decision 
had addressed Mr Ps concerns about mis-representation.
the provisional decision hadnt commented on the terms of the agreement, particularly in 
relation to the interest rates that were applied
The terms of the hire purchase agreement, that Mr P referred to in his response to my 
provisional decision, were mainly in reference to the annual percentage rate (APR) that had 
been applied by AEL to the agreement.  
I recognise that the purchase price of a car, in certain circumstances, could have some 
bearing on the expectations a reasonable person has of a car. For example, a reasonable 
person might expect that a very expensive car would be supplied in a near perfect condition, 
as opposed to a car that cost considerably less than its market value. 
Having said that, I dont consider the total interest applied by AEL to be part of the purchase 
price for Mr Ps car. The interest rate is the amount that AEL has charged Mr P for the credit, 
and something that Mr P would have agreed to take on when he entered into the contract 
with AEL. In addition, Mr Ps complaint wasnt in relation to the terms of the hire purchase 
agreement or the interest rates that were applied by AEL, so I havent considered this in my 
decision.
I recognise that this decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr P, however I can assure Mr 
P that Ive considered all the evidence provided and believe on balance that AEL has acted 
fairly in the circumstances.
Overall, I still consider my provisional findings to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Neither party has added anything which gives me cause to change these. 
Therefore, for the reasons as set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision 
is the same.
My final decisionHaving considered all the information provided, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps 
complaint about The Asset Exchange Ltd The Asset Exchange Ltd trading as The Car Loan 
Centre
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman