DRN-4085698
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has refused to refund the money he has lost 
following him falling victim to a scam. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr H was contacted via telephone by a business called MarketCap (X). X 
persuaded Mr H to make an investment with it starting with a small amount. Mr H was able 
to see his investment growing via the online platform supplied to him by X, and convinced he 
was making a genuine investment agreed to make further payments.
When Mr H decided to make a withdrawal from the investment, he was told he would have to 
make further payments first. He did this but was still unable to make a withdrawal or recover 
any of the payments he had made.
A short time after Mr H made his final payment as directed by X, he was contacted by 
another company called Direct Trading Technologies (Y). Y explained it could help recover 
the money Mr H had lost to X and provided persuasive documentation supporting its claim 
that it could recover money for Mr H. Persuaded by Y Mr H agreed to make various 
payments to Y to recover his lost funds. 
Unfortunately, both X and Y had been operating convincing scams and Mr H has been 
unable to recover any of the money he sent to either business.
Mr H made the following payments in relation to the scams. None of the accounts Mr H 
made payments to appear to be in the name of the businesses the scammers said they were 
from.
Date Payee Payment Method Amount
24 April 2020 GoodAdvise.org Debit Card £229.97
11 May 2020 GoodAdvise.org Debit Card £878.98
1 July 2020 GoodAdvise.org Debit Card £5.013.28
17 July 2020 GoodAdvise.org Debit Card £1,599.58
28 July 2020 200206887 International Transfer £707.75
13 August 2020 201354027 International Transfer £3,749.53
25 August 2020 202063857 International Transfer £1,867.59
Our Investigator considered Mr Hs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
Mr H disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Recovering the payments Mr H made
Mr H made four payments into the scam via his debit card and three payments via the 
method of international transfer. 
When payments are made by debit card the only recovery option Lloyds has to recover the 
funds is to request a chargeback. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
The Visa chargeback rules say that for a successful claim, Mr H would have needed to 
provide a dated screenshot showing an available balance in his trading account, and 
evidence that he attempted to contact the merchant on the same date making a withdrawal 
request. 
Also, a chargeback could only be raised against the merchant Mr H paid directly, which was 
GoodAdvise.org. However, all your documents and correspondence would have been from 
Markets Cap, which was a separate company.
Overall, I think its unlikely a chargeback request would have been successful in these 
circumstances as Mr H would not have been able to provide the evidence required.
For the payments Mr H made via the method of international transfer, Lloyds has no direct 
method of recovering the funds. And as the first report Mr H made to Lloyds about these 
payments was more than two months after they were made, I think its likely the money 
would have been moved on in any event.
Should Lloyds have reasonably prevented the payments Mr H made?
It has been accepted that Mr H authorised the payments that were made from his account 
with Lloyds, albeit on X and Ys instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mr H is 
responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty 
to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on 
large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Lloyds should have been aware of the scam and stepped in to 
prevent the payments from being made.
The payments Mr H made into the scam started at relatively low amounts and although Mr H 
was making payments to a new payee it wouldnt be reasonable for me to suggest that 
Lloyds should step in every time one of its customers pays a new business, especially when 
that business appears to be legitimate. Mr Hs account also shows he had previously made 
payments for amounts up to £2,000.The first four payments Mr H made were spread out across several months. I dont think the 
first two payments Mr H made would have triggered Lloyds fraud preventions systems due 
to the low amounts he was sending. And by the time Mr H made the third larger payment he 
had already been making payments to GoodAdvise for several months without any issues so 
I dont think it would be reasonable for me to suggest this payment, or the fourth smaller 
payment should trigger Lloyds fraud prevention systems either.
The last three payments Mr H made via international transfer were again for amounts low 
enough that I dont think they would reasonably have triggered Lloyds fraud prevention 
systems.  
With the above in mind, I dont think it was unreasonable that Lloyds fraud prevention 
systems were not triggered, and that Lloyds didnt step in to prevent the scam taking place. 
Lloyds is therefore not responsible for Mr Hs loss.
Mr H has argued that he took loans to fund the payments he was making and that this 
should have looked suspicious to Lloyds, and this should have helped uncover the scam. 
But Mr H took out these loans outside of Lloyds, and people take loans for a range of 
different reasons so I dont think it would be reasonable to hold Lloyds responsible for Mr Hs 
loss based on it not investigating the other lending he applied for elsewhere.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman