DRN-3485356
The complaint
Through her representative, Mrs K complains that Invesco Fund Managers Limited is 
unreasonably delaying transferring proceeds due to her following the sale of her ISA 
investments. Mrs K wants the ISA proceeds transferred to her and compensation to reflect 
the opportunity she has lost to benefit from re-investing the sale proceeds in an alternative 
investment which she says has gone up considerably in value. 
Im grateful to Mrs Ks representative for his assistance throughout this complaint. However, 
to help keep things simpler, Ill mostly refer in my decision to Mrs K since this is a complaint 
about what happened to her. 
What happened
In 2000, Mrs K invested in ISAs arranged through Invesco.
In November 2020, Mrs K asked Invesco to sell her investments and transfer the funds to 
her bank account. 
Invesco sold the investments but didnt transfer the money.
That was because Invesco had asked Mrs K for documents of identification to help them 
satisfy their obligatory regulatory checks and the documents she provided didnt show the 
same name that was recorded on their system. 
On Invescos system, Mrs K was recorded as having a two word name. But her identification 
documents all showed Mrs K as having a three word name (the first two words in both 
instances being identical).
Invesco asked Mrs K if shed like to change her name on her account which it would do if 
she sent evidence of a change of name. However, she declined as she was going to close 
the account. And she has said that she has never changed her name.
Matters didnt progress and Mrs K sent multiple emails chasing things up and subsequently 
complained to Invesco. 
Invesco wrote to Mrs K in April 2021 and explained what it would need to see in order to 
comply with UK Anti-Money Laundering (AML) regulations linking the name it held the 
investments in with the name shown on the documents Mrs K had provided to prove her 
identity. 
It explained that the proceeds of sale couldnt be released until it received the requested 
documentation. Invesco did however apologise for having failed to acknowledge and 
investigate Mrs Ks concerns in a timely manner and sent her a £50 cheque for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Invesco used the name it held on record for Mrs K when it sent her the £50 cheque. Mrs K 
paid the cheque into her bank account  which wasnt in the name Invesco had on record for 
her. She said that this should have been enough to reassure Invesco about her identity and 
it could safely send her a similar cheque for the ISA proceeds, made out in the name shown 
on its records.
Invesco said this wasnt enough to meet minimum identification requirements when its 
records were in a different name that Mrs K hadnt so far produced documentation to verify. 
In its final response letter dated 18 June 2021, Invesco explained that regulatory 
requirements had changed significantly since 2000 and even if Mrs K hadnt changed her 
name, it still needed to verify her identity now to comply with UK Anti-Money Laundering 
regulations. It said it was unable to progress matters as none of the documents Mrs K had 
provided for this purpose showed the name it had on record for her investments.
Invesco had previously explained what documents would be acceptable as proof of identity 
and confirmed again that it wouldnt be able to release money to her without seeing 
satisfactory evidence to confirm identity.
Mrs K was unhappy with the response from Invesco and brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. She has explained that she doesnt have any paperwork in 
the name that Invesco holds on record for her. She didnt understand how Invesco could 
send a cheque for the £50 compensation payment to her, using the name it held on record 
as the payee, but was able to refuse to send her a cheque, similarly made out, for the sale 
proceeds of her investment. 
Our investigator didnt feel he had seen enough to be able to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
To briefly summarise:
he felt that there wasnt enough to suggest that Invesco had done anything wrong 
when it set up the ISAs in the name it had recorded in its system
he didnt feel that Invesco had been unreasonable in asking to see the documents it 
had requested to establish Mrs Ks identity, as it was obliged to do under legal and 
regulatory requirements  
he explained that when Invesco sent Mrs K a £50 cheque by way of apology it was 
able to do so as it was paying her out of its own money and the UK Anti-Money 
Laundering regulations didnt apply as those relate to how Invesco should handle 
customers money. 
And, whilst our investigator was sympathetic to Mrs Ks position and recognised her strength 
of feeling about what happened, he felt that the £50 already paid by Invesco was fair and 
reasonable overall to reflect the frustration caused by the way it had handled her complaint. 
On behalf of Mrs K, her representative sent detailed responses explaining why Mrs K didnt 
agree with our investigator or accept what he said. In brief summary, Mrs K feels that our 
investigators view is partial and lacks objectivity and neither she nor her representative sees 
any basis to justify what the investigator has said. 
As things currently stand, Invesco says it is still unable to successfully verify the client and 
the documents weve received so far confirm details that differ from the application form. Ive 
attached the application form for your reference  as you can note the client didnt provide 
the name [this is Mrs Ks third name] at the time and her DoB listed is 10/01/XXXX whereas 
her National ID card and marriage certificate confirm a DoB of 17/01/XXXX.
We require the following to release the clients proceeds:
a. Original or certified marriage certificate as above.b. Two pieces of identification as per our attached criteria. This has been sent to the client 
several times.
Weve also tried to verify the client using Experian and weve tried all possible combinations 
of her full name and both DoBs however all results have been unsuccessful.
Mrs K points to guidance on the Gov.uk website which she believes is very clear and she 
says is followed by other major financial institutions. She questions whether Invesco is trying 
to create its own regulations inconsistent with legal practice and guidance and maintains that 
she has provided ample satisfactory evidence of identity. 
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mrs K  I can completely understand that whats happened has been 
upsetting and frustrating for her. 
And Im sorry she feels our investigator hasnt investigated the complaint fairly. Id like to 
reassure Mrs K that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently reached the 
same conclusions as our investigator. 
Ive read and considered the whole file (which includes the specific emails Mrs Ks 
representative has asked me to confirm I've seen and considered). I havent commented on 
everything Mrs K or her representative have said during the course of this complaint where 
theres nothing more I can usefully add to what our investigator has said already. 
Its my role to identify and focus on what I think is relevant and explain how I have reached 
my conclusions. I will deal with all the main points that have an impact on the outcome of this 
complaint. 
Its my understanding that the crux of Mrs Ks complaint is that Invescos identification 
requirements have been unreasonable and her investment proceeds have been unfairly kept 
from her.
So Ive first thought about how and why the issue of identification has proved so problematic 
for Mrs K and Invesco to resolve  and whether I can fairly say that responsibility for this 
rests with Invesco. 
Where information is incomplete or disputed by the parties involved, as some of it is here, 
I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Theres information on our website which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service 
approach. I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. 
This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. 
And I must be impartial. 
Mrs Ks name showing on her identification documents doesnt match the name Invesco has 
on record within its system for the ISAs Mrs K asked it to cash in and pay to her.
Unfortunately, the original ISA applications and paperwork from 2000 are no longer available 
 thats unsurprising after so long. I wouldnt reasonably expect Invesco to hold on to old records indefinitely. And data protection requirements mean that, generally speaking, 
businesses might not be required to keep paperwork beyond six years. The fact that Invesco 
still had some of the ISA details recorded and other documentation relating to a different 
investment from 1998/1999 but isnt able to produce documentation from a sale that took 
place in 2000 isnt enough of a reason for me to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
 I am aware that Mrs K has told us that she doesnt always use the third word in her name. 
Invesco has been able to provide copy paperwork relating to a different investment Mrs K 
applied to Invesco to set up in March 1999. This shows the same name that it has recorded 
in its records for the ISAs. 
So its reasonable to conclude its likely that the ISAs were probably set up in this name, and 
that Mrs K applied for them using this shortened, two word version of her name. I say this 
because this evidence shows me that this was a name that Mrs K was using shortly before 
2000. And I think its likely that if she had used a different name on her ISA applications, that 
would show in Invescos records. 
This is significant because it follows from what Ive said that the way Invesco has recorded 
Mrs Ks details doesnt look unreasonable. So I cant fairly say that problems arising from the 
mis-match in names are due to error on the part of Invesco. 
Invesco said its own attempts to electronically verify the various names Mrs K used had 
been unsuccessful. 
Invesco is obliged to take steps to satisfy itself that it has seen sufficient evidence of identity 
to be able to link Mrs K with the ISA proceeds before it can pay this money to her.  
Looking at the course of the correspondence between Invesco and Mrs K, I think Invesco 
explained its position and set out its requirements reasonably clearly. So it was up to Mrs K 
to choose what to supply from a range of documents that were identified as suitable. 
The difficulty for Mrs K is that she appears to have no documentation in the name Invesco 
has recorded on its system. 
I can understand why Mrs K might think what she has sent was good enough to prove her 
entitlement to the ISA money, especially as she wasnt able to satisfy the verification 
requirements she was asked to meet. 
Amongst other things, Mrs K said that as she was able to pay the £50 cheque into her bank 
account, despite the name on the cheque not completely matching the account name, she 
feels this should be enough for Invesco to send her the sale proceeds. 
But Invesco must comply with its regulatory obligations before it can pay the ISA money to 
Mrs K, which it has explained to her. It must have in place appropriate measures in order to 
ensure it is paying customers money to the right person. I cant fairly say that Invesco 
should have paid the ISA money to Mrs K when she hasnt met those requirements. I think 
its important to mention that Invescos discretion in this regard is limited. Despite the 
problems Mrs K has faced complying with those requirements it isnt reasonable to expect 
Invesco to be able to action matters just on the basis of Mrs Ks assurances about her 
identity. And the fact Mrs Ks bank allowed her to pay into her account a cheque made out in 
a different name doesnt mean that Invescos verification requirements are unreasonable  
or that the way the bank processed the cheque meant Invesco could be satisfied Mrs K met 
its own verification obligations and requirements.  All this leads me to the conclusion that I havent seen enough overall to show that it was an 
error by Invesco that has prevented it being able to transfer Mrs Ks cash to her. 
In order to uphold Mrs Ks complaint I would have to find that Invesco has done something 
wrong or acted in a way that isnt fair and reasonable  and I havent seen enough here to 
do so. I have thought carefully about the fact that Mrs K feels Invescos insistence on her 
having to produce documents from a list it says is acceptable means it is imposing 
requirements that go beyond what is necessary and exceeds what other financial 
businesses expect to see. But its up to Invesco to decide how it will operate within AML 
guidance. As far as I can see it is acting in line with its own internal processes and it has 
explained what documentation Mrs K will need to produce. Especially bearing in mind the 
evident disparities in her various names and dates of birth shown in paperwork, I cant fairly 
say Invesco is being unreasonable or acting incorrectly.    
And, taking things as a whole, I think that the payment already made to Mrs K reflects a 
genuine understanding and acknowledgment on Invescos part of the frustration undoubtedly 
experienced by Mrs K in the course of dealing with this matter  and I believe that the £50 
payment fairly reflects this. 
Im satisfied that Invesco has treated Mrs K fairly and reasonably overall and Im not 
upholding her complaint. So I cant award the compensation Mrs K would like me to or direct 
payment of the ISA proceeds to her. I hope that setting things out as I've done helps explain 
how I've reached my conclusions.
I note that since a complaint was first brought to this service, there has been continued 
correspondence between Mrs K and Invesco regarding what documents she needs to 
provide so that the ISA proceeds can be released to her. As Mrs K has highlighted, a key 
barrier that is preventing matters being resolved is that the ISAs are in Mrs Ks shortened 
two word name, whilst all the official documents she has show her three word name. It 
appears therefore that Mrs K will never be able to provide Invesco with an official document 
where her name matches that used for her ISA holdings.
Invesco asked that Mrs K send it her marriage certificate, but it will not accept the copy it has 
received because it says it needs to be certified in a different way to the version it has 
received. But even if Invesco was satisfied with the documents format, it does not show 
Mrs Ks name in the shortened two word version applicable to the ISAs. It seems unlikely 
therefore that the marriage certificate will provide the identification that Invesco are seeking. 
Bearing this in mind, Invesco will need to consider what other means of identification are 
acceptable to it, when Mrs K holds no documents that show her name in the two word 
format.
In trying to resolve this ongoing matter, if Mrs K feels she has further grounds for complaint 
then she should first report her concerns to Invesco so it has an opportunity to address her 
complaint. If shes still unhappy after that, it will be open to her to bring a new complaint to 
us if she should wish to do so. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Susan WebbOmbudsman