DRN-4345331
The complaint
Mrs M complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited led her to believe she could make a 
claim under her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M holds private medical insurance cover with AXA. Her policy has a six-week option, 
which means AXA wont cover treatment that can be carried out by the NHS within six 
weeks, including emergency treatment.
Mrs M was admitted to an NHS hospital for emergency treatment, and remained there for 
several weeks. AXA advised Mrs Ms husband that she could claim NHS cash benefit under 
the policy. It also later advised her husband that a cheque would be issued for this. 
However, AXA then realised that Mrs M wasnt eligible for the benefit, as shed been treated 
under the NHS within six weeks. It offered Mrs M £300 compensation for giving her husband 
the wrong information about this. Unhappy with this, Mrs M brought a complaint to this 
Service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought AXA had turned 
down the claim in line with the policy terms. Although AXA had given Mrs Ms husband the 
wrong information, she didnt think that meant it needed to pay the claim. The investigator 
thought the compensation AXA had offered for its error was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mrs M didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy explains that cover will be provided if the NHS cant provide treatment within six 
weeks (the six-week option). It also makes it clear that the policy wont cover urgent or 
emergency treatment, as this would take place within six weeks.
The policy provides benefit of £50 per night (up to £2,000) if Mrs M has inpatient treatment 
on the NHS that could have been claimed under the policy if shed had it privately. This is 
known as NHS cash benefit. The policy explains that if the NHS provides treatment within 
six weeks, the NHS cash benefit cant be claimed.
Its not in dispute that Mrs M needed emergency in-patient treatment, and she received this 
under the NHS within six weeks. That means she wasnt entitled to claim under the policy for 
private treatment due to the six-week option, and also meant she couldnt claim NHS cash 
benefit. 
However, AXA wrongly told Mrs Ms husband that she could claim the NHS cash benefit. 
When Mrs Ms husband then called AXA to chase the payment, he was also wrongly told the 
£2,000 payment would be made. 
Mrs M wasnt entitled to NHS cash benefit, and so it wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
require AXA to pay this, even though AXA led Mrs Ms husband to believe that the benefit 
would be paid. However, Mrs M was disappointed to learn that she wasnt entitled to the 
£2,000 payment. AXA has recognised this and paid £300 compensation by way of apology 
for its error. Im satisfied this was reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as I find that AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited has paid reasonable compensation for its error. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman