DRN-1755438
The complaint
Mr S has complained about esure insurance company Limiteds handling of a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
Reference to esure includes its agents.
Background
Mr S was dropping his elderly father off at home when another driver (the third party) 
reversed into his car. He told esure about the accident but didn't immediately have his car 
repaired. esure contacted the third partys insurers, they said that Mr S was at fault for the 
accident.
Mr S provided details of some witnesses but only one responded. And she didn't actually 
see the incident but heard the impact and saw the aftermath. Mr S didn't want to get his car 
repaired until the liability issue was sorted out. And he was unhappy with the way esure was 
progressing the claim and complained. In February 2019 esure acknowledged it hadn't 
handled things as well as it could have. For example it said it could have taken more action 
to try and secure witness evidence and to get a pro forma invoice sooner. So, it offered 
Mr S £150 compensation for the impact of those delays. It also said it had reinstated Mr S 
no claims discount (NCD) and recalculated his renewal premium to reflect that.
Mr S continued to communicate with esure about the claim without getting his car repaired. 
esure sent a pro forma invoice, to the third party insurers. It told Mr S that if the third party 
insurers accepted liability they would pay him the amount on the invoice. But the third party 
insurers didn't change their stance. And esure advised Mr S that, in the absence of a witness 
that actually saw the incident or some evidence proving one sides version of events over the 
others, the likely result of a claim would be a 50/50 split liability. Some months later, in 
August 2019, esure explained to Mr S that it wouldn't be able to progress the matter to court 
if it didn't have an outlay to recover.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. A couple of our investigators looked into Mr S complaint. 
The first investigator explained why he thought esure had generally handled the claim 
reasonably. And he explained to Mr S why esure would be unlikely to have any prospect of 
taking action against the third party insurers until esure had an outlay to try to recover. A 
second investigator later also looked into Mr S complaint. She thought esure had raised 
Mr S expectations about the prospects of court action. So she said it should pay Mr S a 
further £100 compensation. esure didn't agree so the complaint's been passed to me to 
decide. I understand that since our second investigator issued her assessment of Mr S 
complaint esure has repaired Mr S car and hes paid his excess.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to partly uphold it.
 
Mr S claim and complaint has been ongoing for some time. And during that period hes 
made a number of detailed points. Ive considered everything he said but I don't intend to 
address every point raised. And in this decision I will focus on what I see as being the key 
outstanding issues following our investigators assessments of the complaint.
I can understand Mr S frustration. From his point of view, hes done nothing wrong. Hes 
been parked when another car has reversed into his car damaging it. But the other driver 
and her insurers didn't accept liability for the accident and blamed Mr S. And Mr S then had 
a damaged and unrepaired car for some considerable time.
Mr S didn't want to claim on his policy until liability had been decided. But it might help if I 
explain that, generally, where liability is disputed an insurer won't be able to progress a case 
to court until it has an outlay to try to recover. Thats because if an insurer hasn't paid out on 
a claim, then any costs the policyholder has are what are known as uninsured losses. And, 
unless a consumer has legal expenses cover, which is usually an optional extra to add to the 
policy, the policy doesn't cover such uninsured losses. And Mr S didn't have legal expenses 
cover.
Mr S didn't initially want to pay his excess. So esure didn't pay out to repair his car, and that 
meant it didn't have an outlay to recover. It did put Mr S allegations to the third party 
insurers to see if they would accept liability. It also suggested using a pro forma invoice, 
which is essentially an estimate for repair, to see if the third party insurers would accept 
liability and settle the claim on that basis. But they didn't do so. 
As esure didn't have an outlay to recover it wasn't in a position to issue proceedings against 
the third party insurers. And it seems that much of its communication with Mr S focused on 
what the likely outcome would be if it did try and progress the matter to court, rather than 
explaining that it couldn't do that until it had an outlay to pursue. But as Mr S didn't want to 
pay his excess, he didn't have his car repaired, and esure couldn't move things on. 
But its evident esure didn't make that clear enough to Mr S. And indeed on at least two 
occasions, in May and June 2019, it told Mr S that if the third party insurers didn't respond 
positively to its allegations it would put the matter into the hands of solicitors in order to take 
the matter to court. But at that time it didn't have an outlay and wasn't in a position to issue 
proceedings. So I don't think it managed Mr S expectations. Thats because it gave him the 
impression it would be issuing court proceedings when there was no real prospect of that 
happening. And it wasn't until August 2019 that it corrected that. So I agree with our second 
investigator that esure could have done a better job of managing Mr S expectations.
In response to our second investigator's recommendation for esure to pay Mr S £100 
compensation, esure said it had already addressed that when it offered Mr S £150 
compensation in February 2019. But I don't accept thats the case. esures letter in 
February 2019 is clear that the redress it offered at that time was in response to its delays. 
Also, two of the phone conversations in which esure raised Mr S expectations took place in 
May and June 2019. And Mr S didn't complain about this point until August 2019, some 
months after esure had offered Mr S £150 compensation. So that compensation can't 
possibly have been in order to address the impact of things that hadn't yet happened.Mr S also said that he doesn't think £100 compensation is enough because esures 
misadvice has added to delays. But initially it was his decision not to have his car repaired. 
So while I understand that Mr S found it frustrating that esure raised his expectations as to 
the next steps, I think £100 compensation is suitable to address his distress and 
inconvenience because of that.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require esure insurance 
company limited to pay Mr S an additional £100 compensation to address his distress and 
inconvenience. It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr S has 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on that amount 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If esure pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also 
give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.