DRN-4015922
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about the advice they received from Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited (Aviva) to invest into a Multiplan Policy (the Policy). They say they dont 
understand the policy and it is not suitable for them.
Mr and Mrs R are represented in bringing their complaint. Ill be referring to Mr and Mrs R 
and their representative in my decision. 
What happened
In August/September 1990 Mr and Mrs R were advised to purchase a Multiplan Whole of 
Life policy with a predecessor business of Aviva for which it took responsibility. The policy 
was to protect their mortgage and provided life cover in the event of death and Lifecare 
benefit if one of them developed a critical illness. It was a unit linked plan that was linked to 
the fund in which the Policy was invested. 
Mr and Mrs R became concerned the policy was mis-sold to them and complained to Aviva. 
They said they only required life cover as they had employee benefits for ill health/critical 
illness. The risk of the investment nor the fact that the premiums could rise was explained to 
them. They didnt understand the cover for critical illness would end at the age of 60 years 
and that it was never considered. The policy exceeded what they originally requested.
Aviva rejected Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. It said;
Mr and Mrs R chose not to provide the adviser with details of all their circumstances 
at the time. They signed each section of the review document to confirm this. The 
adviser could only consider the information that Mr and Mrs R chose to disclose.
Its adviser would have talked them through the different products available to suit 
their objectives. It was recommended they take out the Multiplan policy with a death 
benefit of £65,646 and lifecare cover of £32,823. The monthly premium was £30.
They would have been given a copy of the illustration of the costs and told that it was 
a whole of life contract. They would also have been given a copy of the technical 
guide which detailed the cover and benefits etc and that the policy would be subject 
to reviews after ten years. Mr and Mrs R completed and signed the proposal form.
Aviva couldnt find anything to suggest the policy was recommended in relation to a 
mortgage. 
Reviews of the plan were carried out in 2000 and every five years thereafter to 
ensure the premiums could maintain the sums assured and those premiums were 
increased until 2020 when the death benefit was reduced to £63,620 and lifecare 
benefit to £31,180.
The policy was to provide life cover in the event of death and lifecare in the event of 
critical illness or disability. The level of cover is flexible depending upon Mr and 
Mrs Rs changing circumstances. Mr and Mrs R were made aware the premium 
might increase in future or that the benefit would have to reduce.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree. Amongst other points, they could only assume it was naivety that 
led to them not completing the fact find and signing that they werent prepared to provide 
that information. They couldnt recall completing the form but from the information they did 
give they think the adviser should have been aware that they would receive sickness and 
death in service benefits. 
Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator who 
considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He said;
He couldnt say exactly what was discussed but it appeared information such as their 
employee death in service benefit wasnt disclosed to the adviser. It was difficult to 
agree the policy had been mis-sold if the adviser wasnt aware of any protection 
already held. 
He couldnt hold Aviva accountable because Mr and Mrs R had accepted the 
premium increase as they didnt know what else to do. Aviva didnt provide advice on 
the reviews.
Mr and Mrs R may wish to seek independent advice. 
Mr and Mrs R remained of the view that they were mis-sold the policy and requested that 
their complaint be considered by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. I will explain how and why I have reached the decision that I have.
Id like to assure the parties that I have carefully considered the file and everything that both 
have provided. And Ive thought very carefully about this complaint. 
I have conflicting information for me to consider so Im making my decision based on the 
information which is available to me. And over and above that Ive reached this decision on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in light 
of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised questions about whether I should rely on the point 
of sale documentation. Particularly with reference to information omitted and information 
theyre of the opinion the adviser should have been aware of about Mr and Mrs Rs financial 
circumstances.  
This sale took place over 30 years ago so I dont find it surprising that Mr and Mrs R cant 
recall any detail from the time of the sale. Memories can and do fade over time but clearly 
Mr and Mrs R are in a position where they are unhappy with the product they were advised 
to take and still hold. And their representative has made, what seem to me to be, sincere 
and genuine submissions on their behalf.
Aviva has been able to give us a copy of the Confidential Factfind for Personal Financial 
Planning from the time of the sale which has been completed by hand and signed and dated 
by Mr and Mrs R as well as the adviser. It contains minimal information for the adviser to 
consider. In those sections where I would expect to see relevant information for the advisers 
assessment for Mr and Mrs Rs requirements  such as family protection  they are crossed through and annotated client not prepared to answer. In each case this comment is signed 
by Mr and Mrs R on the relevant page. Mr and Mrs R dont recall this. 
Mr and Mrs R say they dont remember completing the fact find document. But its clear that 
they did as they have each signed in several places to say they werent prepared to answer 
the questions posed on the fact find and went on to sign and date the form overall.             
Mr and Mrs Rs representative says they would have done what the adviser told them to do. 
But equally Ive borne in mind Mr and Mrs R have said they dont recall seeing the form at 
all. So, it could be just as likely that they decided against answering those questions at the 
time but just cant remember making that decision. 
So, its difficult for me to reach a conclusion, whether Mr and Mrs R did what the adviser told 
them to do, over and above it being their own decision not to answer personal financial 
questions. While I cant know that for sure, in order for me to go ahead and decide on this 
complaint I need to make a decision about whether its reasonable for me to take into 
account that information that was  and wasnt recorded  at the time of the sale. And my 
conclusion is that I dont think it is unreasonable for me to do so. 
I say this because the form was completed at the time of the sale. Mr and Mrs Rs 
representative has said they were inexperienced in financial matters but if Mr and Mrs R 
werent satisfied that document wasnt a fair reflection of what was said at the meeting, I 
would question why they would sign a form if they werent confident about its contents. And 
that they went onto sign the overall agreement to those contents in advance of the adviser 
using that information to assess whether a product was suitable for them. And as a result of 
that, the adviser going on to advise them about a product that would impact on them 
financially. Because of this, I dont think it is unreasonable for me to take Mr and Mrs Rs 
agreement to the fact find at face value.
So, Ive gone on to consider the information recorded in the fact find to establish whether the 
recommended plan was suitable. Mr and Mrs Rs representative has said their employers 
name is clear on the form  they were both with the same employer. The suggestion of this 
being that the adviser should have known they were entitled to employee benefits because 
of who their employer was and where they lived. So, it would have been evident to the 
adviser the policy benefit duplicated the employee benefits Mr and Mrs R already had at the 
time and so it wasnt needed nor was it suitable. And as a result, the policy was mis-sold to 
them.
In addition to this, they have said the adviser was known to their family so should have been 
aware of their circumstances. But I cant just agree to this assumption without questioning it. 
I dont know how well their adviser knew them or whether it ought to have been known or 
should have been obvious to the adviser about their employee benefits they said they did 
have at the time because of who their employer was. 
In any event, overarching all of this is that the adviser was acting in his role as a 
representative of Aviva so he could not have based his recommendations on something that 
he thought he might have known as fact about Mr and Mrs R and which wasnt necessarily 
the case. I would expect him to have acted on information given to him by Mr and Mrs R. In 
his role as a representative of Aviva I would have expected him to have taken a professional 
approach to the interview with Mr and Mrs R. So despite what Mr and Mrs Rs representative 
says about knowledge its assumed the adviser had about Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances, Im 
not persuaded there is anything to show that it wasnt just as likely the case he was relying 
on the information he was given by them. 
So, what is known about Mr and Mrs R is their employers name, mortgage details and 
pension arrangements. They didnt disclose their financial details and werent prepared to disclose additional information in relation to pensions and IHT. But we do have the mortgage 
information  their house was worth around £75,000 and had an outstanding mortgage of 
£25,000.
Mr and Mrs R have said they only required cover to protect them in the event one of them 
died in order to protect the survivor and the outstanding mortgage payments. And they have 
said that the benefit the policy would have provided in the event of a successful claim was in 
excess of the amount the survivor would have needed to repay their mortgage. 
But equally it could be argued that it was the monthly premium amount Mr and Mrs R were 
willing to set aside at the time that is what drove the benefit amount chosen  albeit with that 
premium potentially increasing over time. In other words, they were happy to pay for a 
benefit over and above their immediate mortgage requirements in the event that one of them 
died leaving the other with additional capital. 
Mr and Mrs R say they werent aware the premiums of this type of policy could increase over 
time and into their retirement. And even though Mrs R was suspicious of endowment 
mortgages at the time, their representative has said they would have been better off if they 
had taken one as it would have given them the life cover they needed and just for the term of 
the mortgage. 
But my role is not to consider what alternative products Mr and Mrs R could have been 
recommended in order to achieve the same outcome as the whole of life policy they did take. 
My role is to consider whether the product that was sold to them was suitable for their 
requirements based on the information about their circumstances that was recorded at the 
time.  
Overall, and taking account of what is known that the adviser of Mr and Mrs R was aware of 
about their circumstances at the time  as recorded in the fact find  I dont think there is 
strong enough evidence for me to conclude that the policy was unsuitable or was mis-sold to 
them. 
No doubt Mr and Mrs R will be disappointed with the outcome, its clear they and their 
representative feel strongly about their complaint and that it should be upheld. But I hope I 
have been able to explain how and why I have reached it. 
My final decision 
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman