DRN-4051816
The complaint
Ms P complains that Evolution Lending Limited lent her a second charge mortgage (secured 
loan) that wasnt affordable for her, and resulted in her having to sell her property to repay it.
What happened
Ms P took out a second charge mortgage with Evolution, secured over her home, in 2017. 
She borrowed £10,000 plus fees of £1,800 at an interest rate of 30.6%, over a term of 15 
years, paying £270 per month.
The loan was taken out to consolidate other debts, including an earlier unsecured loan taken 
from a sister company of Evolution which was itself used to consolidate debt including 
payday loans. It was also used to pay off arrears on her main mortgage. 
Less than two years later, Ms P sold her property and repaid the loan. She said she felt she 
had no choice but to do this because the loan was unmanageable for her. She had missed 
payments and direct debits had bounced. She felt she could no longer continue with the 
loan.
Ms P complained. She said the loan was unaffordable for her and should never have been 
lent if Evolution had acted responsibly. She said she had limited income available to repay 
the loan and a history of credit problems, and she was in arrears on her main mortgage at 
the time. And she said that although shed borrowed £10,000, the loan settlement figure was 
almost £14,500  despite having paid over £3,000 in the meantime.
Evolution didnt agree it had done anything wrong. It said it had checked her income and 
expenditure and credit record. It said the loan was affordable. While Ms P had since missed 
some payments, it said it thought that was because of other circumstances  such as Ms P 
having been a victim of fraud  rather than because the lending was unaffordable. It said it 
had offered to support Ms P in her financial difficulties, but she chose to repay the loan. 
Our investigator didnt think Evolution had lent responsibly, and said it should refund all 
interest charged to the loan. Evolution didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsman to decide 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to decide this complaint, Ive looked carefully at the lending decision Evolution took. 
Ive reminded myself of the regulators rules for assessing affordability and responsible 
lending, to be found in section 11.6 of the MCOB section of the FCA Handbook.
Although the loan was sold by a separate (though linked) firm, the obligation to assess 
affordability and whether it is responsible to lend falls on Evolution Lending as the lender.
In assessing whether to lend, Evolution was required to consider evidence of Ms Ps income 
and information about her expenditure. It may rely on information provided by Ms P unless, 
taking a common sense view, it has reason to doubt it. But it must take reasonable steps to 
obtain details of her committed expenditure, which it must corroborate from an independent 
source such as a credit file or bank statements. Where, as here, a loan is being taken for 
debt consolidation, the lender must take reasonable steps to ensure the debts are paid off or 
use them in the affordability calculation.  The purpose of the affordability assessment is to 
ensure that the borrower is able to repay the loan  including taking into account possible 
future interest rate rises.
Evolution looked at the income and expenditure and fact find completed by the loan seller, 
and obtained payslips. Im satisfied that it took a reasonable view of Ms Ps income, 
supported by the evidence.
In looking at her expenditure, again it considered the income and expenditure and fact find, 
as well as Ms Ps credit file. It also obtained a bank statement for Ms Ps current account.
Ms P applied for a loan of £15,000 but Evolution decided that under its lending criteria the 
maximum loan she qualified for was £10,000  though this was related to her credit history 
rather than affordability. Its criteria set a maximum lending cap based on credit history, within 
which an affordability assessment then takes place. In this case, Evolution lent the maximum 
Ms P qualified for. Most of the loan was for debt consolidation, including clearing the arrears 
on her main mortgage. 
Having looked at the evidence, Im not persuaded Evolution took a realistic view of Ms Ps 
expenditure in relying on the fact find for the affordability assessment. It ought to have had 
common sense grounds to doubt what it had been told based on other information in its 
possession. 
For example, the income and expenditure records that Ms P spent £240 per month on food 
and housekeeping  but the bank statement shows that she spent almost £500 in 
supermarkets in the month covered by the statement, as well as expenditure on eating out 
and takeaways. While some of that might be discretionary or one-off items, I cant see that 
Evolution considered whether that was actually the case, made enquiries of Ms P, or took 
steps to question whether £240 was a realistic amount.
It shows that Ms P was just over the limit of her overdraft both at the start and the end of the 
month shown on the statement  suggesting on the face of it that her income and 
expenditure were broadly the same. But the detail of what was shown on the bank statement 
shows this was not in fact the case. 
There were significant one off items of money in and money out on the bank statement given 
to Evolution:
Money in (£3,675)
o£2,275 from the sale of her car
o£1,400 from a payday lender
Money out (£2,299)
o£770 to a payday lender
o£140 to a payday lenderoA second mortgage payment of £575 (a late payment for the previous month)
o£814 to a holiday company
If these items are disregarded as being one-off items, it means that rather than Ms Ps bank 
account having the same balance at the start and end of the month (just over her overdraft 
limit), her expenditure would be over £1,400 more than her income. Of that expenditure, only 
a loan payment of £236 was being consolidated.
This means that disregarding one-off items of money in and money out, and disregarding the 
loan to be consolidated, Ms Ps bank statement shows that her expenditure exceeded her 
income by around £1,170. Since this was information in Evolutions possession at the time of 
the underwriting assessment, I think this ought, on a common sense view, have led it to 
doubt  or at least take further steps to verify  the information about expenditure it used in 
determining whether the loan was affordable. For example, it could have asked Ms P about 
this expenditure. It could have asked for further bank statements to verify if this was an 
unusual month or an accurate reflection of her regular spending. Or it could have adjusted 
the figures used in the income and expenditure to determine affordability in light of the 
information in the statement. But I cant see that it did any of those things. 
Although advice was given by a separate company, it was a linked company and Evolution 
has given us a copy of the advice letter as part of this complaint. Im therefore satisfied it 
would have been aware of the purpose of the loan. The advice letter shows that as well as 
debt consolidation, Ms P intended to use part of the loan balance to buy another car. 
Knowing this, Id expect the income and expenditure to take into account spending on the 
car she would buy  such as estimated insurance and fuel costs. But no expenditure was in 
fact included.
For all those reasons, I think the income and expenditure information Evolution used to 
assess Ms Ps affordability significantly underestimated her expenditure. I have reached that 
conclusion using information provided by Evolution as part of this complaint, and which it 
had in its possession at the time of the lending decision.
And on that basis Im satisfied that, based on information available at the time, its more 
likely than not that the loan wasnt affordable for Ms P, and that Evolution didnt take 
reasonable steps to ascertain whether it was or carry out a sufficiently robust affordability 
assessment. And my conclusion that the loan was in fact unaffordable is supported by the 
fact that Ms P began to miss payments within four months of the loan being taken out. Im 
not persuaded that this was because of fraud or any other new circumstances. 
That is enough for me to uphold this complaint and say that Evolution should not have lent 
this loan. But there are further factors which lead me to question whether it was responsible 
to lend. 
Ms P was consolidating unsecured debt which she had taken out very recently  a high cost 
personal loan three months earlier, and an escalating cycle of payday lending from another 
lender. And she had other payday loans which Evolution required to be cleared before it 
would lend. 
I can see from her credit file that the loan to be consolidated was taken out three months 
earlier. The underwriting notes show that this loan, and a payday loan, were taken into 
account as being consolidated and that Evolution also wanted confirmation that another 
payday loan would be paid off before it would agree to lend. 
But the bank statement shows that Ms P was in a cycle of payday loans  paying a lender off and borrowing a higher amount the same day. 
In my view, having taken out repeated payday loans and consolidating a loan which was 
itself a consolidation loan taken only three months earlier ought reasonably to have led 
Evolution to be concerned that Ms P was in a pattern of increasing debt. In addition to this, 
she was over her overdraft limit on her current account, and only prevented it increasing 
further in the month for which we have a statement by selling her car and taking a payday 
loan.
And that, coupled with what it ought to have considered about her expenditure exceeding 
her income even after consolidation, reasonably ought in my view to have led Evolution to 
question whether this loan would have been sustainable for her. And in those circumstances, 
Im not persuaded that it was appropriate or responsible to allow Ms P to secure spiralling 
debt she wasnt managing to her property even if this loan had been affordable on the face 
of her income and expenditure.
In addition, I note that part of the purpose of this loan was to allow Ms P to clear arrears on 
her main mortgage. I find it difficult to accept that it was responsible to allow Ms P to 
exchange arrears on her main mortgage  at an interest rate of around 5% - for a secured 
loan of around 30% even if doing so would have been affordable. It remains mortgage debt, 
but much more expensive and increases Ms Ps overall secured indebtedness and her 
outgoings on secured debt. The arrears on the main mortgage were relatively small at this 
time and in my view it would have been more appropriate for Evolution to have refused to 
lend for this purpose on the basis that it would have been better for Ms P to try to reach an 
arrangement with her main mortgage lender.
For all those reasons, Im satisfied that this loan was irresponsible and unaffordable, and 
should never have been lent.
Putting things right
In those circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Evolution to have charged 
Ms P interest or fees for lending she should never have been given. Its fair that she repaid 
the capital, since she had the benefit of that and if I were to ask Evolution to refund the 
capital too that would mean Ms P would effectively have the consolidated debts written off  
which would leave her in a better position than she would have been in had this lending not 
happened.
I note Evolutions point that refunding the interest means its possible Ms P is better off 
through my redress  in that I am directing interest to be refunded on the consolidated debt 
that Ms P would have paid had the debts not been consolidated. But its also possible that 
had they not been consolidated into a secured loan, Ms P would have come to an 
arrangement with her creditors, or considered solutions such as an IVA  and if those loans 
had been defaulted or written off, she wouldnt have paid interest. It cant now be known 
what would have happened had Evolution not lent. Ive taken into account what it has said, 
but it does not alter my conclusion that this complaint should be upheld, or my conclusion 
that it wasnt fair for Evolution to collect interest on a loan it shouldnt have lent.
In order to pay back this loan, Ms P had to sell her house. I dont think I can fairly hold 
Evolution entirely responsible for this. If it had never lent, given what Ive said about Ms Ps 
finances its possible she would have got back into further arrears on her main mortgage and 
still had to sell her property at some point. But the loan from Evolution made that outcome 
more likely, and caused Ms P considerable upset as a result. 
I told the parties that I think Evolution should pay her £750 compensation in recognition of the upset and inconvenience caused by having to sell her house to repay the loan. Ms P 
accepted that. But Evolution disagreed. It said it thought £500 would be more appropriate. It 
said it was Ms Ps decision to sell her property and it wasnt responsible for that  and as Ive 
said she might well have had to sell in any case. It said that if either Evolution or her main 
mortgage lender had needed to repossess, there would have been additional costs 
associated with that which Ms P avoided by selling. And it also said that it should be taken 
into account that the other redress would leave Ms P in a better position than had the 
lending not happened and the other debts not been consolidated.
But I am satisfied that Evolutions decision to offer a loan that was unaffordable and secured 
to her property left Ms P with no option but to sell when she could no longer manage the 
loan. Its possible that might have happened anyway  though the arrears on the main 
mortgage were small when Evolution lent this loan  but in my view Evolutions decision to 
lend made it much more likely. Im satisfied that £750 is fair compensation in all the 
circumstances.
Finally, I note that Evolution reported the total charge for credit, not the balance outstanding 
from time to time, to Ms Ps credit file. And it reported that the loan had been defaulted on 20 
February 2019.
I dont think this was appropriate. The total charge for credit is the total amount Ms P would 
pay if the loan had run to term. It was not the balance she owed on any given day. So 
Evolution should have reported the actual outstanding balance  not the total charge for 
credit  for the duration of the loan. It should also not have recorded a default. This is a 
regulated mortgage contract, not a consumer credit agreement. A consumer credit default 
notice is not appropriate on a mortgage. And a default should only be recorded on a credit 
file in respect of a mortgage when the mortgage is brought to an end through, for example, 
repossession  which did not happen here.
Ordinarily I would direct Evolution to remove the record of default and amend the reported 
balance. However, if Evolution had not lent, this loan would never have been recorded on 
Ms Ps credit file in the first place. So rather than correct those mistakes, I simply require 
Evolution to remove the record of the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Evolution Lending Limited to:
Calculate the total amount Ms P has paid in respect of this loan, including all fees, 
monthly payments and the redemption figure;
Calculate the total amount of capital Ms P borrowed, disregarding interest and all 
fees whether charged by the lender or the seller;
Pay Ms P the difference between those two figures, adding simple annual interest of 
8%* running from 30 August 2019, when the loan was redeemed, to date of payment;
Pay Ms P £750 compensation; and
Amend Ms Ps credit file so that the record of this loan is removed.* Evolution may deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award as required by HMRC. 
But it should tell Ms P what it has deducted so that she can reclaim the tax if shes entitled to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman