DRN-1428093
The complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mishandled a chargeback and filed to return 
money to a merchants account. He says this resulted in the merchant pursuing him for 
payment.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. I know that will disappoint Mr O so 
please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I can understand that this must have been a frustrating and distressing period for Mr O but, 
whilst I understand Barclays have accepted they could have helped more by getting in touch 
with the merchant earlier, I am not persuaded theres been sufficient evidence the funds 
were lost because of an error on their part.
Mr O says they used the wrong reference and that this meant the merchant couldnt locate 
the returned funds when the chargeback was reversed. But Ive not seen evidence of that. 
Barclays has explained that the funds were sent to the merchants bank account in October 
but werent linked to the merchants outlet account. They explained that they subsequently 
assisted the merchant to locate them.
I understand Mr O would like me to gather further evidence to clarify whether they were 
incorrectly referenced and whether that led to the problems. I havent decided to do that 
because Ive been able to review Barclays internal contact logs that detail the 
communications it had with Mr O and with VISA who were processing the refund. Theres no 
mention of the reference being wrong, and I think there would have been if that were the 
case. And regardless, I think the compensation Barclays have provided is generous and no 
more than I would have suggested even if it could be shown they were at fault for the funds 
getting lost.
I can understand that Mr O has been distressed by the merchants court action, but this was 
cancelled when Barclays assisted the merchant to find the funds. And, Ive not seen that 
Mr O has been financially disadvantaged. I understand the compensation was offered before 
the complaint was fully resolved but, as Ive explained, I think the compensation was 
generous and even if Barclays had made a mistake that led to the funds being mislaid I 
wouldnt have asked them to provide anything more that the £250 theyve already provided.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman