DRN-4440454
The complaint
Miss B complains that TSB Bank plc shouldnt have defaulted her current account as she 
had maintained regular repayment plans through a debt management plan.
What happened
In late August 2018, Miss B entered into a repayment plan with TSB to clear the outstanding 
balance on her current account. TSB first wrote to Miss B on 6 September to tell her the 
payment plan had been broken. TSB says Miss B went on to break several payment plans 
and in early 2021 an agreement was made to send the account to recoveries. TSB 
registered a default on the account in July. Miss B cleared the account balance in 2022.
Miss B complained to TSB that shed maintained the payments required under the 
repayments plans agreed and felt it was unfair that TSB registered a default. TSB didnt 
uphold the complaint and said that as the debt management plan had failed several times it 
was unable to allow a further plan to be agreed. TSB said it had discussed this with Miss B 
and agreed an informal repayment plan that would ultimately result in the account being 
closed and moved to the collections team.
Miss B brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought TSB hadnt done anything 
significantly wrong and Miss B asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint. As I 
reached a significantly different decision to the Investigator, I issued a provisional decision 
and asked for further comments from Miss B and TSB. In my provisional decision I said:
The crux of Miss Bs complaint is that after she entered into a debt management 
plan in 2018, the required payments were sent each month to TSB. Miss B doesnt 
believe its fair and reasonable that TSB registered the default in 2021. I intend 
saying that it wasnt fair and reasonable for TSB to register the default when Miss B 
was paying the amount each month as agreed and I will now explain why.
Ive seen evidence from the third-party debt management business that payments 
were made to TSB between the fourth and seventh of each month between 
September 2018 and May 2022 - when Miss B paid off the balance of the account. 
Miss Bs bank statement shows that these payments were credited to the account 
between the eight and the eleventh of each month until the account closed. So, I 
think its fair and reasonable for me to conclude Miss B did make the payments 
required under the debt management plan. The question that remains is whether or 
not it was fair and reasonable for TSB to maintain Miss B had missed the payments 
and whether it was reasonable for TSB to refuse any further debt management 
repayment plans after March 2021.
TSB sent letters to Miss B about the missed payments  the first of which was sent 
on 6 September 2018. Ive considered this letter - and another that TSB issued the 
following year. I think its reasonable for me to conclude that by the time the letters 
had been sent the debt management business had already made the payments. And 
most likely, by the time Miss B received the letters the payment had already been 
received by TSB. It would have been helpful if TSB had made it clear in these letters 
when the start date was and when the first payment was due, but it didnt. These 
letters refer to the repayment plan being in arrears, but I intend saying it was 
reasonable for Miss B to believe it wasnt and that TSB should reasonably have been 
aware payments did continue when reviewing the plan. Ive noted that TSB did set-up 
a new repayment plan in March 2018  with payments being made and received as 
Ive outlined above  but, even though the circumstances here are the same as 
previously, TSB concluded this debt repayment plan wasnt broken. I intend saying 
that this inconsistency in approach added to Miss Bs belief that the plans were fully 
maintained throughout.
In 2020, Miss B spoke with TSB and was told she could not set-up a new repayment 
plan with the debt management business as shed broken several previous plans, but 
she could set-up a plan that would ultimately result in the account being closed and 
moved to the collections team. TSB wrote to Miss B to confirm the arrangement 
shortly after and sent out formal enforcement and demand letters before registering a 
default. Im satisfied that TSB followed the correct default process here, and Im 
reasonably sure Miss B would have understood the consequences. However, I intend 
saying that the reason Miss B entered into this arrangement was because shed been 
led to believe no other option was available. TSB had told Miss B she had broken 
several previous arrangements, but I intend saying it was unfair and unreasonable for 
TSB to reach this conclusion based on Miss Bs bank statements and the evidence 
Ive seen from the debt management business.
But for TSBs decision that the repayment plan had been broken several times  
when the evidence suggests that it wasnt - I intend saying its more likely than not 
Miss B would have continued on a debt management plan and kept up the payments 
and ultimately cleared the remaining debt when she could afford to. This is what 
happened even after TSB issued registered the default.
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I intend asking TSB Bank plc to amend Miss Bs 
credit file and remove the default it registered on the account and remove the late 
payment markers it applied between September 2018 and July 2021. I also intend 
asking TSB bank plc to pay Miss B £100 for the distress and inconvenience the 
adverse credit information has caused to her.
TSB responded with further comments and referred me to a similar case that an Investigator 
had upheld. I will address the comments provided in my final decision but would like to clarify 
that my decision is based on the circumstances of Miss Bs case and what I consider is fair 
and reasonable in these circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, TSB says the formal repayment plans Miss B 
entered into had a set repayment schedule, therefore if the repayments arent received on 
time they will break. I think this gets to the crux of Miss Bs complaint. My provisional 
decision compared the payment schedules provided by the debt management company and 
TSB and I remain persuaded that Miss B didnt miss a payment. I dont think the 
correspondence TSB sent Miss B about missed payments was as helpful or clear as it could 
have been as by the time the letters were received by Miss B the payments had already 
been received by TSB. Im persuaded that although TSB feels several formal plans were 
broken, the evidence doesnt support this  and crucially, TSB has told the Financial Ombudsman Service that some plans were broken but others werent. I think TSB was 
inconsistent in its approach to these plans and I think it would have been fairer to Miss B if 
TSB had taken a holistic view about how these plans were being managed by Miss B and 
the debt management company.
Taking this into account, it seems to me that its more likely than not TSBs decision to refuse 
to set-up another formal plan in 2020 feels unfair because Miss B had made all of the 
payments and continued to make payments after the account was moved to recoveries. I 
think this supports that Miss B was being proactive in reducing her debt with TSB.
I accept that TSB made Miss B aware of the consequences of the informal arrangement put 
in place in 2021, and that TSB went on to record a default in line with what it agreed and 
communicated to Miss B. But it seems to me that the reason TSB said it couldnt agree a 
new formal plan  and insisted on an informal plan being in place - is because it believed 
Miss B had broken several plans and exceeded the maximum number of formal 
arrangements in a 12-month period. Based on the evidence I think this decision wasnt fair 
and reasonable and didnt take into account Miss B actual payment record within these 
plans.
Of course, I cant be certain Miss B would have continued to make payments on any further 
formal plan TSB may have agreed in 2020. However, Miss B continued to make payments 
through the debt management company until she paid off the TSB account balance in May 
2022  less than a year after TSB defaulted the account. When TSB registered the default 
Miss B did reduce her payments, but I think its more likely than not it would have been in 
Miss Bs long-term interests for TSB to have considered a further formal plan in 2020 and 
not rely on its view that previous formal plans had been broken  especially as Im 
persuaded Miss B did make all the payments on the plans shed agreed.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I think TSB bank plc should amend Miss Bs credit file and 
remove the default it registered on the account and remove the late payment markers it 
applied between September 2018 and July 2021. TSB bank plc should also pay Miss B £100 
for the distress and inconvenience the adverse credit information has caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman