DRN-4362430
The complaint
Mrs J complains that QIC Europe Ltd declined to settle her claim and avoided her home 
insurance policy. She says it has unfairly reported this, which has detrimentally affected her 
ability to obtain insurance subsequently.
What happened
On 17 February 2020, Mrs J took out a new home insurance policy. This policy was taken 
out with a broker that Ill refer to here as P. But its underwritten by QIC Europe Ltd (QIC). 
The policy commenced on 11 March 2020.
Prior to the policy being incepted, Mrs J was asked to answer several questions online  one 
of which was is £10,000 enough to replace all your valuable contents items (each worth 
£2,000 or less) inside your home? She answered Yes to this question. She was also 
asked whether she had any valuables or personal items that were individually worth over 
£2000.  Mrs J answered this question No.
Mrs Js policy renewed on 11 March 2021 and, again, on 11 March 2022. Prior to renewal 
Mrs J was asked to check whether the renewal information, which was based on the 
information provided in February 2020, remained correct. Mrs J didnt make any changes to 
her policy relating to the value of her personal property.
In February 2023, Mrs J discovered that shed been burgled. The burglars ransacked her 
home and stole a large number of items of jewellery and cash. Mrs J notified P of what had 
happened and reported the offence to the police who investigated the incident and provided 
her with a crime reference number.
Mrs J said P asked her to provide photographic evidence or receipts relating to the items 
stolen in the burglary. After providing the requested information about the stolen items, Mrs J 
said she had a long telephone conversation with a jeweller, which Ill call L. It gave her a 
comprehensive jewellery guide to assist in submitting an accurate description of each stolen 
item. Mrs J estimated that all items were valued below £10,000 and that no item exceeded 
£2,000 in value. But L disputed the value of the jewellery believing them to be worth almost 
£50,000 and valuing several items to be, individually, worth more than £2,000.
When QIC received Ls valuation of the claim it wrote to Mrs J on 24 May 2023 explaining 
that it intended to avoid her insurance cover. It took this action on 31 May 2023 and Mrs J 
was informed that, as shed misrepresented the value of her personal belongings, it was 
entitled to avoid her policy in accordance with its terms and conditions. QIC explained that it 
didnt provide cover to anyone with belongings of the value that Mrs J had tried to insure.
Mrs J complained to QIC about its decision not to settle her claim and to avoid her policy. 
She said she hadnt misled QIC about the value of her personal belongings and thought L 
had overvalued her stolen jewellery. She wanted QIC to pay her claim. And she said the 
punitive effect of it voiding her policy was unfair as she was still experiencing financial 
detriment when taking out policies with other insurers.
When QIC responded to Mrs Js complaint it didnt uphold it. It thought Ls valuation was 
reliable. And it was satisfied Mrs J had carelessly misrepresented the value of her stolen 
jewellery. It went on to say that, had it known the correct value of Mrs Js jewellery, it 
wouldnt have offered her insurance. So, it thought it had acted fairly in avoiding the policy 
and declining to pay the claim. QIC also informed Mrs J it had a duty to record that it had 
avoided her policy so that other insurers were aware.
Being dissatisfied with QICs response to her complaint, Mrs J referred it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened. But they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. They were persuaded Mrs J had made a careless misrepresentation and 
accepted that, had QIC known the true value of her jewellery, it wouldnt have offered cover. 
They said it was fair for QIC to decline to settle the claim, avoid the policy and record that 
information. But Mrs J disagreed and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this has all been a very stressful situation for Mrs J. She suffered a burglary, 
which must have been a traumatic experience. She also had numerous items stolen, which 
were of considerable sentimental and financial value. 
Im sure Mrs J thought, at the start, the claim was all going to be sorted out with minimal fuss 
and that didnt happen here. Shes informed our service of the impact this all had on her 
health and livelihood. Im sorry to read about how she was affected by what happened.
However, while I have sympathy with Mrs J, our service is impartial. We dont take either 
sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint, and we dont regulate or punish 
businesses. My role here is to assess whether I think QIC made a mistake or treated Mrs J 
unfairly.  
As Ive mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mrs J believes L has overvalued her 
stolen jewellery. But Im not persuaded that happened here. I say this because Ive seen the 
descriptions provided by Mrs J of several items of jewellery and the value she has assigned 
to each piece. Ive also taken into account the valuation and report from L and what this is 
based on. 
Our service thinks its right for an insurer to instruct a company with expertise to assist it in 
assessing the value of a claim. Here QIC appointed L to do that, and I cant fairly find it acted 
unfairly in doing so. 
Having carefully considered what Mrs J and L say about the value of the stolen jewellery, its 
clear both values have been based on different information. For example, theres a 
significant difference in a valuation relating to a pair of earrings, which Mrs J described as 
diamond and ruby. L has assessed the value of that item based on the description Mrs J 
provided. But the quote Mrs J submitted for the same item is based on gold plated earrings 
with cubic zirconia gemstones. So, it isnt like for like when compared to the item stolen and 
this provides a plausible explanation for why the valuations differ significantly.
There are several other items where the replacement items havent been sourced on a like 
for like basis by Mrs J such as an item containing cultured pearls. L quoted for a 
replacement based on cultured pearls whilst Mrs J has provided an alternative valuation for 
an item featuring freshwater peals. This again explains why theres a valuation difference.Within the list of items submitted to L by Mrs J, there are at least 3 pieces of jewellery where 
L has assessed the value to exceed £2,000 per item  with one being valued at £20,000. 
This presents a substantial difference to the valuation Mrs J submitted in relation to this item.
In the overall circumstances, Im persuaded L assessed Mrs Js stolen jewellery fairly based 
on the description she provided for each item. It gave her a comprehensive jewellery guide 
to assist in submitting an accurate description of each item. Im satisfied that Ls valuation of 
the stolen jewellery has been based on like for like replacements. Mrs Js valuation hasnt 
been based on this. And therefore, the value of the claim differs between the two parties.
I can see that, before QIC took its decision to avoid the policy, it wrote to Mrs J and afforded 
her 7 days in which to provide evidence to show that L had overvalued the stolen jewellery. I 
think this was a reasonable step for QIC to take here. It demonstrates that it was offering 
Mrs J the last word on the issue and recognised that avoiding a policy could affect her 
detrimentally when purchasing alternative cover. I understand that Mrs J didnt respond with 
any evidence to show that L had made an error with its assessment of the value of the claim.
In the overall circumstances, Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J but, as Im persuaded that Ls 
valuation of the claim is reliable and accurate based on the information that she provided 
about the stolen items of jewellery, QIC were entitled to rely on that valuation in determining 
how to progress the claim.
As I set out in the background to this complaint, QIC declined to pay Mrs Js claim based on 
underinsurance. Due to misrepresentation, it decided to avoid the insurance policy from the 
date of its inception. When our service assesses complaints arising from non-disclosure of 
information important to an insurer, we consider the appropriate legislation including The 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out an insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care and, if they did, the options available to the insurer. The considerations 
include whether: 
- the consumer took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
- the information was important to the insurer and, if it had been given, would affect whether 
a policy was offered or its terms, known as a qualifying misrepresentation. 
If the policyholder made a qualifying misrepresentation without taking reasonable care, then 
we consider whether they did so deliberately or recklessly, or carelessly. 
Ive addressed each of these considerations in turn. 
Did Mrs J take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation? 
Its important when looking at this to decide if the insurer asked a clear question when the 
policy was taken out. 
In this case, prior to Mrs J taking out her policy in 2020, she was asked is £10,000 enough 
to replace all your valuable contents items (each worth £2,000 or less) inside your home? 
She was also asked do you have any valuables or personal items worth over £2,000 
each...Mrs J hasnt disputed that these questions were asked and indeed its not uncommon for an 
insurer to ask a potential customer about the value of their personal items within their home. 
Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied these questions were asked. I think the 
questions asked were clear; there can be no misunderstanding of what the questions were 
asking. And Im satisfied the questions placed the onus on Mrs J to take reasonable care in 
answering them not to make a misrepresentation. 
After incepting the policy in 2020, Mrs J was provided with access to an online account. She 
was also sent a welcome pack confirming the information shed given to QIC. She was 
asked to review her policy documents. I understand that no changes to the value of Mrs Js 
personal items were made.
I can see that each year Mrs J renewed her policy she was sent new documentation and 
asked to check the information was still correct so that she could satisfy herself that the 
cover matched her requirements. Im satisfied she would have reasonably been aware that a 
renewal decision was based on information previously provided by Mrs J unless that had 
been updated.
Mrs Js policy stated:
We strongly advise you to review your policy each year to make sure you have suitable 
cover in place. The value of some of your personal belongings and valuables is likely to vary 
over time. We recommend that you review the valuation of any specific items regularly (at 
least every two years) and get professional advice if necessary. Please let us know if the 
value of any of these items changes, otherwise you may find yourself over insured or under 
insured.
The policy clearly defines the meaning of valuables. So, Im persuaded Mrs J ought to have 
known that her jewellery would have been covered under this policy term. 
Im also satisfied Mrs J was encouraged to think about whether the valuation of her jewellery 
had changed prior to each policy renewal. I think she ought to have been reasonably aware 
that jewellery could increase in value over time. And Im persuaded the policy wording made 
Mrs J aware of the importance of providing accurate and correct information and the 
potential consequences of not doing so.
Mrs J didnt contact QIC to change the valuation of her jewellery or the answers to the 
questions identified above. So, the policy renewed automatically on the basis that £10,000 
was sufficient to cover all valuable contents items, each worth £2,000 or less and that Mrs J 
had no valuable items worth more than £2,000 individually. 
Ive already explained that the questions asked were clear; There are only two possible 
answers and, I dont think Mrs J took reasonable care in answering these questions.
Did Mrs D make a qualifying misrepresentation? 
QIC has shared its acceptance criteria for offering cover. The criteria evidences that the 
value of Mrs Js jewellery, as assessed by L, falls outside its underwriting acceptance 
criteria. So, had it known the true value of Mrs Js stolen jewellery, it wouldnt have offered to 
insure her. 
This all means that information about the value of the jewellery Mrs J wanted to insure was 
information which was important to QIC and would have changed whether the policy was 
offered. Im therefore satisfied Mrs Js misrepresentation was a qualifying one. Was the misrepresentation deliberate, reckless or careless? 
QIC has treated Mrs Js misrepresentation as careless. Based on the evidence available, 
Im persuaded Mrs J was genuinely shocked to learn of the true value of her jewellery as 
assessed by L. I dont believe she deliberately chose to under insure the items that were 
stolen. And, as much of the stolen jewellery had been gifted to Mrs J, its reasonable to say 
she might not necessarily have been aware of the value or brand.
In the overall circumstances, I think QICs decision to treat Mrs Js misrepresentation as 
careless, rather than deliberate or reckless, is fair and reasonable. It reflects the fact that 
underinsurance here was due to a lack of awareness rather than a deliberate effort on Mrs 
Js part to gain an advantage.
As Im satisfied Mrs Js misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions QIC can take in accordance with CIDRA. In these circumstances, the law allows QIC 
to avoid the policy from the misrepresentation, when she incepted her policy, and not deal 
with any claims. It must then return any unused premiums the consumer paid. 
Here, I understand that when QIC took the decision to avoid Mrs Js policy it decided to do 
so from 11 March 2022 onwards. So, it treated the policy as if it had never existed from the 
second renewal onwards  this was the policy period in which Mrs J was burgled and made 
a claim. It also returned the premiums shed paid from 11 March 2022. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J, but in the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied 
QICs decision to avoid her policy was reached reasonably and in line with CIDRA. Im also 
persuaded that, in returning the premiums she had paid, QIC acted in line with CIDRA and 
as our service would expect. 
I can see that Mrs J would like our service to tell QIC to remove information its recorded that 
shows it avoided her policy. I realise that this information stays on Mrs Js record indefinitely 
 its already impacted on her ability to obtain reasonably priced insurance elsewhere and 
will continue to do so in the future. But QIC is required to provide accurate information about 
policies that its avoided so that other insurers are aware. It hasnt made an error in doing so. 
So, I cant ask it to remove this information it as its a true reflection of what happened. 
I know Mrs J will be disappointed with this decision. But I think that QIC has acted fairly and 
reasonably and Im not going to be asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman