DRN-2897989
Complaint
Mr H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly added interest, 
fees and charges to his overdraft charged when it ought to have realised that he was 
experiencing financial difficulty.
  
Background
Halifax told us that we could only look at events that had happened in the six years prior to 
Mr Hs complaint, as three years from when he ought reasonably to have been aware of his 
cause to complain didnt provide him with more time to do so. Weve already explained to  
Mr H why Halifax is correct on this matter and so this decision is only looking at events from 
April 2013 onwards.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought Halifax should have realised 
that Mr Hs overdraft had become unsustainable for him in December 2013 and so it needed 
to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Hs overdraft from this point. 
Halifax didnt respond to this part of our adjudicators view. So the complaint was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think Halifax acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed Mr Hs overdraft in 
December 2013. 
By this point, Halifax would have seen that Mr H had been hardcore borrowing for a number 
of months. In other words, Mr Hs account remained persistently overdrawn for lengthy 
periods without returning to credit. Equally, I cant see that sufficient funds were being 
credited such that it could reasonably be concluded Mr H would more likely than not have 
been able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period of time either. 
So I think that by December 2013, Halifax should have stopped providing the overdraft on 
the same terms and treated Mr H with forbearance rather than adding even more fees and 
charges on the overdraft. And this means that Halifax should have realised Mr H was 
experiencing financial difficulty, wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have 
continued offering it on the same terms. 
As Halifax didnt react to Mr Hs overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same 
way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. And as this led to Mr H paying 
additional interest, fees and charges at a when he was already experiencing difficulty, Im 
satisfied that he lost out as a result of Halifax failing to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
So Halifax needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Halifax needs to do to put things right for Mr H 
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Hs complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Hs overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
to it from December 2013 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact Mr H to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Hs credit 
file, it should backdate this to December 2013.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr H along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, upholding Mr Hs complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman