DRN-2727312
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that TSB Bank plc (TSB) have incorrectly chased them for 
repayment of an overdraft where the balance was written off when they were discharged 
from a trust deed.
What happened
In 2011 Mr and Mrs N were accepted and entered into a trust deed, a voluntary agreement 
between them and their creditors. In 2013 Mr and Mrs Ns overdraft balance that formed part 
of the trust deed, was transferred to TSB from their original bank as part of a business 
transfer. Mr and Mrs N were discharged from the trust deed in 2016 and any remaining 
debts were written off.
In 2019 TSB contacted Mr and Mrs N for repayment of the outstanding overdraft balance. 
They made TSB aware they had a trust deed which theyd been discharged from in 2016, 
and TSB asked them to send in the discharge documents.
Mrs N took the documents to her local branch in August 2019. TSB say the documents were 
handed into branch in December 2019 and that they only received Mrs Ns discharge 
documents and not Mr Ns discharge documents. TSB continued to chase Mr N for the 
remaining balance and sold the debt on to a collection service to continue the recovery of 
the amount they say was still owed, as well as registering a default on both Mr and Mrs Ns 
credit file.
Mr N complained to TSB in February 2020 about the continuing action to recover the 
overdraft balance from him. In TSBs final response letter of March 2020, they explained 
they didnt receive any notification from the previous bank to say theyd entered a trust deed 
so acted on the information they had. TSB asked Mr N to email a copy of his discharge 
documents which he did in April 2020. But TSB wouldnt accept the documents as they were 
sent as photos
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. After his involvement TSB confirmed the 
relevant information had now been added to Mr Ns account and the balance was written off 
in November 2020. But Mr N felt he was due compensation for the inconvenience and stress 
caused by TSBs unprofessional handling of the complaint, and the continuous demands 
hes had for the repayment of the debt. Our investigator felt TSB werent required to do 
anymore so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr and Mrs N and TSB a provisional decision on 18 March 2021 to explain why I 
thought Mr and Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else 
anyone wanted to give me  as long as I received it by 30 March 2021. Mr and Mrs N agreed 
with my provisional decision, and TSB agreed they had made an error but wanted to clarify 
their position as to why they didnt contact Mr and Mrs N sooner about repayment of the 
overdraft. Ive explained my reasoning again below with consideration to what TSB have 
said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ns account was transferred to TSB in 2013. I note that TSB say they werent 
made aware the account was part of a trust deed as the relevant markers werent on the 
account when it was transferred to them. TSB only contacted Mr and Mrs N about the 
repayment of the overdraft at the beginning of 2019 as until then the balance remained 
within a planned overdraft facility. Mr and Mrs N notified TSB that theyd been discharged 
from the trust deed in 2016. TSB advised them to take the discharge documents into a 
branch which Mr and Mrs N say they did in August 2019. By then TSB had sent formal 
demand letters to Mr and Mrs N and following that officially defaulted the account in July 
2019. 
TSB say they didnt receive copies of the discharge documents until December 2019, and 
that only Mrs Ns documents were received. They marked Mrs Ns account accordingly, but 
Mr N was still pursued by a debt collection agency for repayment of the outstanding balance.
Following a complaint being raised with TSB in February 2020, Mr N emailed them a copy of 
his discharge documents but as the documents were sent as photos, TSB said wouldnt 
accept them as proof. Ive asked TSB for a copy of the documents that were presented to 
them by Mrs N when she went into branch and the documents emailed to them in April 2020 
 but they say they dont have copies.
There's also a discrepancy between both parties as to when Mrs N visited a branch and 
what discharge documents were presented. I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Ns testimony about 
when they went into branch and what documents Mrs N presented, and I cant say for 
certain the notes TSB have for December 2019 are incorrect. But whats clear is the 
documents Mr N emailed TSB in April 2020 (Mr N has given me a copy of his email with the 
attachments) were the exact same documents our investigator sent TSB in October 2020. 
TSB didn't accept these documents in April 2020 because they were a photo. But they were 
happy to accept the same documents in October 2020.
Putting things right
Although I can see why TSB thought it was right to default the account after they didnt 
receive either payment of the outstanding balance or proof that Mr and Mrs N had been 
discharged from the trust deed, the default shouldnt have been applied. A trust deed will 
affect a persons credit rating for six years from the date the trust deed begins. This can 
make it harder to get credit like a mortgage or a loan in the future. 
I dont think the default marker has been applied correctly - it should have been applied in 
2011 when Mr and Mrs N were accepted into the trust deed. This means the default would 
have dropped off their credit files in 2017. TSB need to remove the default from both Mr and 
Mrs Ns credit file.
I also think TSB should have accepted the documents Mr N emailed them back in April 2020 
of proof hed been discharged. This whole situation has caused undue stress and 
aggravation for Mr and Mrs N in trying to rectify the mistake TSB made, and the pressure of 
being contacted by a collection agency when no debt was owed. So, I think its fair that TSB 
pays them £200 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.I require TSB Bank plc to:
Remove the default from Mr and Mrs Ns credit file,
Pay £200 compensation for the stress, inconvenience and upset caused by having to 
rectify this situation as well as the amount of time its taken.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman