DRN-3358824
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is about a claim they made on their Society of Lloyds legal 
expenses insurance policy.
They say that Lloyds unfairly declined their claim.
All references to Lloyds include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C made a claim on their legal expenses insurance policy for cover to bring a 
claim about some flooring theyd purchased and installed. Mr and Mrs C said the flooring 
was unsuitable for use with underfloor heating because it had warped so were seeking to 
bring a claim against the manufacturer in respect of this.
Mr and Mrs C had addressed things with the manufacturer in the first instance. The 
manufacturer reviewed the matter and concluded that the problems were due to the 
installation of the flooring or Mr and Mrs Cs house. 
Lloyds reviewed the claim and agreed to instruct a panel firm of solicitors to consider the 
claim. The panel firm requested funding to appoint a flooring expert to comment on the 
cause of the defects, which Lloyds agreed to. The expert appointed by the panel firm 
concluded that the defects complained of by Mr and Mrs C were not due to the quality of the 
flooring itself but rather the way in which it was installed. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the experts findings. Consequently, they asked Lloyds to 
fund a different expert to consider things, which Lloyds also agreed to. The second expert 
reached similar conclusions to the first. Based on that evidence the panel firm concluded 
that Mr and Mrs Cs claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success, which was required 
for Lloyds to fund their claim. Lloyds have since confirmed that they wont cover the costs of 
a claim against the flooring manufacturer.
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy. They feel that the experts instructed by the panel firm based 
their findings on conjecture and not evidence and that Lloyds should fund a flooring 
specialist to complete a report based on evidence, taking into account the flooring may not 
be fit for purpose.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be 
upheld. She thought that Lloyds had acted reasonably by relying on the advice of the panel 
firm (which was based on the expert reports it had paid for) and that it was entitled to rely on 
its policy terms by withdrawing cover in the circumstances. She also said that Mr and Mrs C 
were free to instruct their own expert, at their own cost, if they wanted to. She said that if that 
report contained an opinion that was materially different to the previous experts then Mr and 
Mrs C could present it to Lloyds to consider further. 
Mr and Mrs C dont agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. Mr and Mrs Cs policy, like virtually all other before the 
event insurance policies requires there to be reasonable prospects of recovery and success. 
In addition, cover will only extend if the value of the claim outweighs the costs of pursuing it. 
We dont think this is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer 
wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed, or that the amount they 
might recover would be less than the cost of the action itself. We wouldnt expect a legal 
expenses insurance to fund claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of 
the underlying claim. Instead, and as the investigator explained, we look at whether the 
insurer has acted fairly, So long as they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we 
wont generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong 
or based on factual mistakes. Lloyds did this. The panel firms advice was that Mr and Mrs 
Cs claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. This was based on the evidence of 
the second expert Lloyds agreed to fund. I appreciate Mr and Mrs C dont agree with the 
what the expert has said but its not within this Services remit to evaluate the strength of that 
evidence or whether the findings reached within it are correct. Rather our role is to look at 
whether Lloyds were right to rely on the advice of the panel firm in respect of their 
evaluation of the merits of Mr and Mrs Cs claim. Theres nothing in that advice that makes 
me think it was based on factual mistakes nor that the Solicitor advising Mr and Mrs C wasnt 
suitably qualified. Because of that I dont think Lloyds were wrong to turn down funding 
based on that advice.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C want Lloyds to fund another expert report as they dont agree 
with the findings of either of the experts instructed. I dont agree. The onus is on Mr and Mrs 
C to establish they have a claim that has more chance of succeeding than not and not on 
Lloyds to do this for them. Despite this Lloyds have funded two reports for them to help 
prove the merits of their claim. The second expert agreed with the findings of the first and 
indeed the manufacturer when he reached his conclusions. So, the expert views obtained so 
far in Mr and Mrs Cs claim have been consistent. In particular, the second expert said:
my opinion remains that the defects are clearly not a manufacturing defect. Both
myself and the other expert have both clearly stated that is not a manufacturing defect,
both of us under duty to the court. I understand that the homeowners dont agree with
this, however they will require to expert shop elsewhere to get any other opinion. The
onus is on installer to check moisture balances and to ensure that the correct
environmental conditions were in place etc to prevent dimensional movement, it is clear
that this was not sufficiently done. Providing overarching statements that guidelines
were followed are not sufficient nor does it point to manufacturing defect.
Although the investigator said that Mr and Mrs C were free to obtain their own expert 
evidence at their own cost to present to Lloyds, its possible that such evidence wouldnt 
yield the outcome theyre looking for- namely that the flooring is defective and that the 
manufacturer is responsible for this. Thats something that Mr and Mrs C might wish to 
consider if they do decide to seek expert evidence elsewhere. And whilst Id expect Lloyds to 
consider any alternative expert evidence Mr and Mrs C obtain, this might not make any 
difference to the outcome of a legal assessment given there are three earlier opinions that 
suggest the problem is not with the flooring itself. If thats the case, then Mr and Mrs C might be asked to obtain their own legal opinion to support the merits of their claim, at their own 
cost. If that occurs, its unlikely wed say that Lloyds were acting unreasonably. 
I know that Mr and Mrs C will find my decision disappointing, but I hope Ive provided them 
with a thorough explanation of why I dont think their complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against Society of 
Lloyds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman