DRN-4017885
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) irresponsibly granted her 
a loan she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In December 2020, Mrs K arranged a training course for her husband which was funded by a 
loan provided by Omni. Under the terms of the agreement Mrs K was required to make an 
initial payment of £55.42 followed by 23 monthly repayments of £55.21. She also paid a 
deposit of £69.75. The total repayable under the agreement was £1,325.
Mrs K says that Omni didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Omni didnt agree. It said that it carried 
out a thorough assessment which included checks that were fair and proportionate. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Omni didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mrs K didnt agree and said we hadnt properly thought about her income and the difficult 
financial position she and her family were in at the time. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Omni will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Omni gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Mrs K about her ability to repay. I say this because it completed a credit 
check which, whilst showing that she had existing credit, showed no adverse information on 
her credit record. On her application Mrs K had told Omni that she had a gross income of 
around £21,500. Omni verified this using a credit reference agency.  Omni also used 
statistical information to estimate Mrs Ks living expenses and housing costs. 
Given the amount of credit that Mrs K was applying for and that it would be repaid over a two 
year period, I think the checks carried out by Omni were proportionate.
However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically 
mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and 
information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence Omni gathered. Having done so Im satisfied that 
the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable to 
Mrs K. I say this given that the information Omni obtained about her credit record was 
reasonably comprehensive. Whilst it showed Mrs K already had around £16,000 of credit 
available to her, she was only using around two thirds of this and appeared to be managing 
to meet her monthly repayments. She was also paying off a loan shed taken out in 
April 2018 for just under £5,000 and another for £1,650 shed taken out in November 2020.  
The total debt was costing her around £570 per month. 
Looking at the three months of bank statements Mrs K has given us, whilst I can see that 
she may have occasionally made short-term use of her overdraft, I dont think theres 
enough to show or suggest that Mrs K was struggling financially or that her financial situation 
was deteriorating. Mrs K was receiving around £1,500 per month by way of net income. Ive 
also seen that in addition she was receiving around £640 each month in state benefits. I 
know Mrs K considers it to be unfair to take this into consideration when calculating her 
overall income, but these benefit payments were intended to assist with daily living costs and 
so I think its reasonable to treat them as being part of Mrs Ks total household income. 
It follows that I dont think that taking on the monthly payments required under the 
agreement could be considered to be unaffordable. For these reasons, I dont think Omni 
acted unfairly when approving the finance application.
Finally, I agree with our adjudicator that Omni didnt act unfairly in assessing Mrs K for the 
finance even though her husband would be benefitting from the training course. Omnis 
checks were primarily intended to ensure that the course repayments were repayable and 
were separate to any issues relating to the course or its content.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman