DRN-3018689
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Itc Compliance Limited (Itc) mis-sold a finance shortfall 
insurance (FSI) policy.
In dealing with this complaint Mr Ws been helped by his son. But, for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to his sons comments as being Mr Ws.
Reference to Itc includes its agents.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr W acquired a car on finance. At the same time Itc sold him an FSI policy. 
Policies of this type are generally referred to as guaranteed asset protection (GAP) 
policies. So, except for where its not appropriate to do so, I'll refer to the cover as a 
GAP policy throughout this decision. The sale was completed in two stages. Itc initially 
recommended the policy on 24 March 2019 when Mr W ordered the car. It then 
completed the sale on 29 March 2019 when Mr W went ahead with the finance deal for 
the car.
In 2021 Mr W complained that Itc mis-sold the policy. He brought his complaint about 
that to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think there was evidence Itc 
had mis-sold the policy. Mr W didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Ws raised a number of points. I've considered everything he's 
said and everything on file carefully. But in this decision I don't intend to address each and 
every point raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of 
Mr Ws complaint. 
I'm also aware that Mr W has raised concerns about the arrangement of the finance on the 
car. But, as that is an entirely separate matter, I don't intend to comment on it here. 
It appears Mr W was aware that Itc had sold him the policy as he said he received the policy 
documents. But he said Itc told him he needed the policy and that it was sold as a 
package. Mr W said he became aware recently, after reading articles in the media, that the 
policy might have been mis-sold. He said Itc didn't tell him it would add the premium to his 
finance agreement so he paid interest on it. 
Itc sold the policy on whats known as an advised basis. That means that it recommended 
the policy to Mr W. So it had a duty to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr Ws needs. In 
order to find out if the policy was suitable for him, Itc completed whats known as a demands 
and needs document. That is it asked Mr W a series of questions to find out what policies 
might be suitable for Mr W. Itc recorded the questions it asked and Mr Ws answers on two 
similar documents both called demands and needs. The first, a draft version, is dated 
24 March 2019 when it initially recommended the sale and the second is on 29 March 2019 
when it actually sold the policy. Those documents show that Itc told Mr W what the benefits 
of the products were, that the policy was optional, so he didn't have to buy it, and that he 
could buy a similar policy from other providers.
Mr W said that Itc didn't ever give him a copy of either of these documents. But Itc said that it 
made those available to Mr W by way of a link to a portal which it had emailed to him. But it 
doesn't appear that Mr W ever opened that portal, which would explain why he didn't see 
them. But I don't think that means Itc didn't run through the questions on them or that the 
policy wasn't suitable for Mr W.
It might help if I explain that where a cars acquired on finance then the finance agreement 
will involve the purchaser also paying interest and charges for that finance. And generally 
the car will lose value over time and as it adds mileage. So, if the car was deemed a total 
loss or stolen then the comprehensive motor insurer would only pay the cars market value 
at the time of the loss. And because of the cars loss of value over time, the motor insurers 
settlement may well be below the amount outstanding on the finance. It will almost certainly 
be lower than the original invoice price for the car. So, if Mr W found himself in that position, 
he would have to continue to pay the finance company the balance leftover after the motor 
insurer had paid the market value of the car. And in those circumstances Mr W could find 
himself having to continue to pay finance for a car he no longer has.
The benefits of Mr Ws GAP policy are that, if his car was deemed a total loss or stolen, the 
GAP policy would not only clear any outstanding finance, but - in the policys first three years 
- would also pay Mr W any difference between the finance outstanding on the car and its 
original invoice price. So, if he needed to claim from it, the GAP policy clearly could be of 
benefit to him. It follows I think the policy was suitable for his needs and it was reasonable 
for Itc to recommend it to him.
Mr Ws said the policy was sold as a package. By that I believe he means Itc told him he 
must have the GAP policy in order to secure the finance. But I don't believe thats the case. 
The GAP policy is referred to in various documents connected with the cars sale including: 
the vehicle order form, the invoice; the finance agreement, and the schedule of service. And 
on the last document (the schedule of service) Mr W has ticked a box to say that he wanted 
the FSI policy and signed to agree that was the case. 
Further, Mr W has acknowledged that he received some of the policy papers Itc gave to him. 
And those say that, if he didn't want the policy, then he had a 30 day cooling off period in 
which to cancel it without penalty. In other words, if he didn't want it, he didn't need to 
continue paying for it. So it's not the case that he had to have the GAP policy in order to 
secure the finance on the car. It follows that I don't think Itc told Mr W that he had to take the 
policy, when he could have left the car dealership and then cancelled it himself. 
Mr W also said that Itc didn't tell him that he'd be paying interest on the policy. But there's 
clear reference in the documents I've referred to above to the cost of the premium (£399), 
the cost of each repayment (£6.20), the total cost of the credit (£66.58) and the total cost of 
those repayments (£465.58). And Mr Ws signed to say he understood that he was buying 
the policy on credit. Mr W suggested to our investigator that Itc have somehow doctored or forged the 
documents. But I find that most unlikely. I should say that forging documents would, I think, 
be considered a criminal offence. And its not my role to decide if such a crime has been 
committed. That would be a matter for police or law enforcement agencies. But, at the time 
Mr W bought the car, finance agreements of this type would have required Mr Ws signature, 
and he would have had a copy of the relevant documents. So, if Itc had amended the 
documents then he should have had a copy of the original, unamended version, to provide 
by way of comparison. But I note Mr W hasn't provided any such supporting information to 
show the documents have been amended. It follows that I think Itc did make it clear that the 
GAP premium was being added to the finance agreement. 
So, having considered Mr Ws complaint very carefully I'm not persuaded that Itc mis-sold 
the GAP policy. And I'm not going to ask it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman