DRN-2118419
The complaint
Miss C makes a number of complaints about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money.
What happened
Miss C says she held a Virgin credit card account that she hadnt used for some time. She 
says she saw that Virgin advertised various credit card offers but says they were not 
available for her as an existing customer. Miss C says she then spent about two hours on 
the telephone calling Virgin as it told her to, but the relevant department wasnt open on a 
Saturday. She also says she was lied to by Virgin that it had tried to contact her. Miss C also 
complains that Virgin closed her account and sent a response to her complaint by e-mail 
rather than calling her about it.
Virgin says it has different offers for existing and new customers and so hasnt made a 
mistake about that part of the complaint. It accepts Miss C spent some time on the telephone 
when she called it and that she was passed to different departments. Virgin has offered £25 
compensation in respect of that part of the complaint. It says it called Miss C and left a 
message for her and sent her an e-mail and says it took the decision to close all customer 
accounts that hadnt been used and that decision was not linked to Miss Cs complaint.
Miss C brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator didnt think Virgin had provided evidence of a call to Miss C and recommended it 
pay £15 compensation for that. The investigator thought Virgin had paid a fair and 
reasonable amount of £25 compensation for the poor service on the telephone call but 
thought Virgin was entitled to close the account in line with account terms and conditions. 
The investigator thought Virgin was entitled to send its complaint response by e-mail.
Miss C says £15 for lying to her isnt enough and that she spent two hours speaking to Virgin 
about her complaint. She says that award isnt enough to deter Virgin from treating other 
customers badly and says she should receive more compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Virgin has dealt fairly with this complaint 
but that it should increase its compensation offer in respect of the telephone call as 
recommended by the investigator. I realise Miss C will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly she feels about what took place.
Im satisfied that its up to Virgin to decide what offers are available for existing and new 
customers and that its not obliged to offer existing customers the same offers that are 
available for new customers. So, I dont think Virgin made a mistake by telling Miss C that 
and I dont think it matters that a different business that Miss C held an account with took a 
different view about such matters. 
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Miss C would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions say that Virgin can close an 
account in certain circumstances, and Im satisfied that is what took place here. I dont think 
Miss C had used her account in over a year and I have not seen any evidence the decision 
to close her account was linked to her complaint. I make clear that based on the evidence I 
have seen that decision was made as part of a review carried out by Virgin on all of its 
customers accounts that hadnt been used. So, I dont think Virgin made a mistake or acted 
unfairly by deciding to close Miss Cs account. I appreciate Miss C says she planned on 
using the account, but I dont think Virgin could have known that.
There is no question here that Miss C spent about two hours on the telephone to Virgin and 
that the call wasnt handled appropriately. I accept Miss C was passed to different 
departments and that the team she needed to speak to wasnt working. I have no doubt Miss 
C was caused distress and inconvenience and would have been frustrated by that call. But 
Im satisfied Virgin has fairly apologised for that mistake.
I appreciate Miss C says Virgin lied to her about trying to call her and that it cant provide a 
record of that call. But I can see that Virgin did send Miss C an e-mail asking her to contact 
it. I cant be sure what took place in the absence of a record and I have no reason to doubt 
what Miss C says that she didnt receive that call. But I dont think the lack of call had a 
significant impact on Miss C as she did speak to Virgin in any event.
I have to consider if the compensation offered by Virgin is fair and reasonable. I have taken 
into account that Miss C spent two hours of her time on a call and that she would have spent 
some time trying to find out if Virgin had called her or left a message for her. I dont think 
Miss C suffered any financial loss as a result of what took place. But I think Virgin should 
increase its compensation offer from £25 to £40 to take account of the issues about the call 
that it didnt consider as part of the original complaint. Im satisfied that award of an extra 
£15 is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate Miss C says that award would not deter Virgin from treating other customers in a 
similar way. But I make clear to Miss C that we are not Virgins regulator and its not our role 
to punish a business. I also think Virgin was entitled to send its final response to Miss Cs 
complaint by e-mail.
Overall, I appreciate that Miss C may not wish to accept my decision as I can see that she 
hasnt cashed the cheque for £25 and may be out of time for doing so.
Putting things right
I intend to order Virgin to increase its compensation award to £40 from £25. It will no doubt 
check its records about the earlier cheque. And if Miss C accepts this decision it may wish to 
send her a cheque for that full amount and cancel the earlier one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Clydesdale Bank Plc trading 
as Virgin Money to pay Miss C a further £15 compensation making £40 in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman