DRN-3706561
The complaint
Mr G complains about the advice given by TenetConnect Limited (Tenet) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He thinks the advice may have been unsuitable for him and has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Gs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business, including decoupling the employers DB scheme (the BSPS) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined benefit scheme (the BSPS2). Alternatively, members were 
informed they could transfer their benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options; to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr G met with a representative of Tenet in late 2017 after being referred to it by his financial 
adviser. Tenet gathered information about Mr Gs circumstances and objectives, noting he 
was married with non-dependent children. It noted Mr and Mrs G had around £20,000 in 
savings. It also noted that Mr G had deferred benefits in the BSPS and he was also an active 
member of his current employers DB scheme. Tenet recorded that Mr G had a high-
medium attitude to risk and hoped to retire between the ages of 60 and 67 with an annual 
income of £25,000.
Tenet recorded Mr and Mrs G were approaching age 55 and Mrs G was in poor health, so 
she was looking to retire from her job and access her own DB pension. However, the adviser 
noted Mrs G required £15,000 per year in retirement but her DB scheme would only provide 
around £6,725 per year from age 55. As this income wasnt likely to be sufficient for their 
needs, they were considering taking some tax-free cash (TFC) from Mr Gs pension each 
year to supplement their income. The adviser recorded that Mr G was a higher-rate tax 
payer and intended to keep working for at least another five years, so taking benefits from 
his DB pension wouldnt be tax-efficient. For this reason, a transfer out of the BSPS was 
being considered.
In February 2018 Tenet advised Mr G to transfer his BSPS benefits to a SIPP, keeping 10% 
of the funds in cash and investing 90% of the funds using a discretionary fund manager 
(DFM). It said this would allow Mr G to achieve his objectives, including accessing his TFC 
gradually each year to supplement his wifes income. It said transferring would provide Mr G 
with flexibility that he wouldnt have if he remained in the DB scheme.
Mr G accepted this advice and £479,862.96 was transferred from the BSPS to his new SIPP.
In 2021 Mr G contacted our Service about the advice he received from Tenet. Mr G didnt 
think the advice to transfer out of the BSPS was in his best interests. He also raised 
concerns about the process employed by the person who gave him the advice. The 
complaint was passed to Tenet but it didnt uphold it. Tenet said the advice was suitable as it 
allowed Mr G to meet his objective of taking some of his TFC each year to supplement his 
household income. It said Mr G couldnt meet his objectives by joining the BSPS2 or moving 
to the PPF.
Unhappy with Tenets response, Mr G asked our Service to investigate. He said the adviser 
had noted things about his wifes health which werent accurate and he feels this was used 
to support the recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme. He said he took about half 
of his TFC entitlement because he was advised to do so but it remained in his account. 
One of our Investigators was given the complaint to consider, and passed on the details 
Mr G had given about the inaccuracies in the fact-find and suitability report, as well as 
evidence from Mrs Gs doctor to support this. Tenet said it would consider its response to the 
complaint again in light of the new information received.
Ultimately the new information led Tenet to uphold Mr Gs complaint and it offered to settle 
the complaint in line with the regulators redress methodology in place at the time.
In July 2022 Tenet provided Mr G with a copy of its loss calculation, which it said 
demonstrated Mr G had not suffered a loss as a result of the transfer. It offered Mr G £500 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by the advice. However, Mr G didnt think this 
was fair because the actuary who had carried out the calculation had based it on him taking 
benefits from the DB scheme at age 55. Mr G said if he hadnt been advised to transfer he 
wouldve left his benefits until age 65 as he had no need for the TFC, as evidenced by the 
fact he hadnt spent any of it. The Investigator also didnt think the calculation had been 
carried out fairly for the same reasons.
As there was no agreement on this point, the complaint was subsequently referred for a final 
decision.
In August 2022 the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), launched a 
consultation on changes to its DB transfer redress guidance. So, the Investigator wrote to 
Mr G to advise him of the FCAs proposed changes which were due to come into effect in 
April 2023 and to give him the option to have any redress due to him calculated under the 
then current guidance or to wait for the new rules to come into effect. Mr G chose to have his 
compensation calculated under the existing rules and guidance. However, Mr G was 
informed that if the complaint had not been resolved by the time the new rules and guidance 
came into effect, the new rules and guidance would apply in any event.
In November 2022 Tenet contacted our Investigator to explain that although it maintained it 
was fair to calculate redress from the date Mr G accessed his TFC at age 55, it had 
undertaken new calculations using retirement ages of 55 and 65. Both calculations showed 
that Mr G had not suffered a loss, although it was still offering £500 compensation as per its 
initial offer.
Mr G didnt accept the offer as he said he had no reason to trust the calculations carried out 
by Tenet and he wasnt in a position to be able to pay someone to check it. He added that 
the calculation didnt seem to address the loss of growth on the TFC hed taken, which had 
been sat in an account not earning any interest. Mr G also thought the £500 offered was a 
derisory amount given all the worry caused.As no agreement could be reached to settle the complaint, the case was passed to me to 
decide.
The Investigator subsequently informed both Mr G and Tenet that if the Ombudsman 
considering the case decided to uphold it, they could require Tenet to calculate any redress 
owed to Mr G using the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator. Although the calculator had 
been developed specifically for the BSPS consumer redress scheme, the Investigator 
explained that the FCA encouraged firms to use the calculator for non-scheme cases, such 
as Mr Gs complaint with our Service. The Investigator invited both parties to comment if 
they had any concerns. 
Tenet responded saying that it didnt think it was reasonable for an Ombudsman to mandate 
use of the FCAs calculator in non-scheme cases, as alternative calculators should arrive at 
the same numbers using the same guidance. Tenet added that it had accepted the advice 
was unsuitable and had calculated redress under the regulators previous guidance in 
November 2022 in line with the Investigators view on the retirement age. So, it believed that 
the only decision for the Ombudsman to make was whether the offer Tenet made complied 
with the regulators guidance at the time. As such, it didnt think the FCAs BSPS calculator 
was relevant in this case as it was not available at the time it carried out the calculation.
The Investigator acknowledged this, but said it was ultimately for the Ombudsman to decide 
and direct the appropriate redress and this could include directing Tenet to use the FCAs 
BSPS calculator.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first say that there is no dispute the advice Tenets representative provided to Mr G 
was unsuitable. Tenet has agreed that it is required to put things right for Mr G by carrying 
out a loss assessment in line with the regulators guidance. What remains in dispute here is 
whether the compensation Tenet has offered to Mr G for the unsuitable advice is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. However, for completeness, I agree that the advice 
provided to Mr G was unsuitable and will briefly set out my reasons for this.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tenets actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The FCA states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable and that a transfer should only consider the transfer to be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate it is in the consumers best interests. Im also mindful 
that under COBS 9.2.1R Tenet needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that its 
recommendation to Mr G was suitable for him. And having looked at all the evidence 
available, Im in agreement with Tenet that the advice provided to Mr G wasnt suitable. 
I say this because I dont think Mr G had any need for additional income such that he 
needed to start taking TFC from his pension. Based on what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs Gs 
expenditure was comfortably covered by their existing income streams, even if Mrs G retired 
immediately and started taking her DB pension (as she went on to do). And as was later 
discovered, Mrs Gs health was not as had been recorded by the adviser, and so there was 
no justification for needing the extra income that accessing the TFC would provide. This is 
evidenced by the fact that although Mr G took some of TFC when he reached age 55, he 
hasnt spent any of it because it wasnt needed.
Overall, I dont think Mr G had a genuine need to access his TFC from his pension at the 
time the advice was given, which was the basis of the advisers recommendation as it said 
Mr G couldnt have achieved this by remaining in the DB scheme. In the absence of this 
need, or any other compelling reasons to transfer out of the scheme, Im satisfied that 
suitable advice wouldve been for Mr G to join the BSPS2 instead. As such, it is fair for Tenet 
to compensate Mr G for the unsuitable advice according to the regulators rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. 
As Ive said, Tenet and Mr G agree that the advice was unsuitable, however, there are still 
some issues in dispute that have an impact on what constitutes fair redress for the impact of 
the unsuitable advice.
Tenet has said from the outset that it believes it is fair to calculate any redress Mr G might 
be owed based on him accessing his pension benefits at age 55, as this is what actually 
happened. It says Mr G took around 50% of his TFC at age 55 and assumes he did so 
because it was necessary to support his wifes early retirement. As such, it considers it 
wouldve also been necessary for Mr G to access his DB pension in the same way. It also 
noted that Mr G had removed the representative of Tenet as the servicing agent of his 
pension, so he did not take the TFC in June 2018 on the advisers instruction. Lastly Tenet 
said it hadnt seen statements covering the entire period following the withdrawal so couldnt 
be certain Mr G hadnt used the funds to supplement his wifes income.
I note that Tenet still went on to carry out a calculation based on Mr G taking his benefits at 
age 65 instead. However, I dont believe that it has ever accepted that this is the retirement 
age it should use for redress purposes, it simply carried out the calculation to illustrate the 
point that Mr G hadnt lost out as a result of its advice, to try to resolve things informally. So, 
for completeness, Ive considered what retirement age Tenet should use to calculate the 
redress.
Although Tenet has referred to the regulators previous guidance when carrying out the 
calculation, as the complaint is yet to be resolved, it is the regulators rules as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4 that should 
be used to calculate redress. This has replaced the previous guidance.
DISP App 4.3.16R says:
A firm must presume that a consumer would have taken pension benefits from their defined 
benefit occupational pension scheme at their normal retirement age in their defined benefit 
occupational pension scheme or on death if their death preceded their normal retirement 
age.
However, DISP App 4.3.17G says:
The presumption in DISP App 4.3.16R will be rebutted where the evidence shows that it is 
more likely than not that the consumer or a beneficiary would have taken benefits from 
their defined benefit occupational pension scheme on an alternative date. Examples of such 
evidence include:
1) the consumer has used some or all of their transfer proceeds to purchase an annuity; 
or
2) the consumer would have taken early or late retirement benefits from their defined 
benefit occupational pension scheme, having regard to:
a. the consumers demands, needs and intentions at the time of the pension 
transfer advice (evidence from the time of the advice is more likely to be 
relevant if it shows that the consumer had a considered plan for taking 
retirement benefits early from their defined benefit occupational pension 
scheme)
b. any information gathered by the firm subsequently about the consumers 
reasons or plans for accessing pension benefits from their DC pension 
arrangement; and
c. any evidence that demonstrates that the consumer or members of their 
household changed or plan to change their working pattern at a similar time to 
the consumer taking regular benefits from their DC pension arrangement; or
3) the firm has written confirmation that the consumer considers themselves to be 
retired from a date which is earlier than normal retirement age.
Tenet may argue that the above requirements are met as Mrs G did in fact start taking her 
DB pension benefits at age 55. And at the time of the advice, it noted that Mr and Mrs G 
required extra income to make up the shortfall in Mrs Gs income to £15,000 per year. 
It is evident that Mrs G was entitled to a reduced annual pension of £6,725 a year plus a 
lump sum of £20,176 when she retired at age 55. So, the recommendation was predicated 
on Mr G taking TFC each year of around £8,275 to make up the shortfall. However, the 
£15,000 the adviser recorded that Mrs G needed wasnt explored or challenged in any 
meaningful way. And as Ive said above, Mr and Mrs Gs expenses were comfortably 
covered by Mr Gs ongoing income and the income Mrs G would receive from her DB 
scheme.
It also seems to have been suggested that the extra income was specifically needed to help 
support Mrs G through her illness. But the evidence Mr G has subsequently provided shows 
Mrs G was not suffering from poor health at the time. While she did go on to retire from her 
current job and take her DB pension, this income, combined with Mr Gs salary, was 
sufficient to meet their household income needs. So, there appears to have been no good reason for Mr G to take any amount of TFC from his pension at the time of the advice, as 
there was no need for any extra income.
This is supported by the evidence Mr G has provided, in the form of bank statements. These 
cover the time from the advice and show that Mr G has not used his TFC. He has also not 
drawn down any additional funds from his pension  he continues to work and has no 
intention of taking any further pension benefits until his normal retirement age.
Overall, I dont think Mr G wouldve accessed his pension benefits at age 55 if he had 
remained in his DB scheme as he had no need to access extra income. And had he taken 
benefits from his DB scheme, he wouldve had to take both TFC and an income; this 
wouldve been taxed at a higher rate so it was therefore not in his interest to do so. On 
balance, given Mr G continues to work and has no plans to retire before age 65, I think it is 
fair and reasonable for Tenet to calculate redress based on Mr G taking his retirement 
benefits at age 65. I think this is what wouldve most likely happened had Mr G been given 
suitable advice at the time to join the BSPS2.
Tenet questions why Mr G took around £62,000 as TFC, rather than the amount the adviser 
recommended to meet the alleged shortfall. It says this demonstrates Mr G didnt act on 
Tenets advice and it essentially confirms Mr G had a genuine need (separate from the 
advice given by Tenet) to access his pension at age 55.
The Investigator asked Mr G why he took £62,000, which was around half of the TFC 
available to him. He explained he thought this was the right thing to do, given the advice hed 
received to start taking his TFC, although he had no need for it and didnt spend any of it. 
While it appears this withdrawal was facilitated by his ongoing adviser, which I appreciate 
Tenet was not responsible for, I still think Mr G took his TFC because hed been advised to 
transfer by Tenet and to start taking some TFC, and because it was an option available to 
him as a result of the transfer. Had Tenet advised him against the transfer Im satisfied he 
would not have taken his pension benefits, for the reasons Ive already given.
In light of the above, Tenet should compensate Mr G for the unsuitable advice, in line with 
the regulators rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. And it 
is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 at age 65 that should be used for 
comparison purposes, as I dont think there is sufficient evidence to persuade me that Mr G 
wouldve taken his DB scheme benefits any earlier than age 65 had he been advised to join 
the BSPS2.
In order to calculate the redress, Im directing Tenet to use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress 
calculator. I know that Tenet does not feel that it is within my remit to make such a direction, 
and says it intends to continue using an independent actuary. But it is for me to determine 
what redress would be appropriate here and that can include a direction to use the FCAs 
calculator.
The FCA developed the calculator as part of the BSPS consumer redress scheme, to ensure 
consistency in the calculations and to ensure consumers receive fair and quicker redress. 
Whilst the calculator was developed as part of the BSPS consumer redress scheme, the 
FCA is also encouraging businesses to use the calculator for non-scheme cases, such as 
Mr Gs complaint with our Service. And overall, I think it would be reasonable for Tenet to 
use the FCAs calculator here as the calculator output is easily understood and I think it will 
provide Mr G with reassurance that any redress owed to him has been calculated fairly.
I understand Mr G has concerns about the redress methodology used to compensate him for 
the unsuitable advice, particularly as it has previously shown that he has not lost out 
financially as a result. But the regulator has set out what it considers the appropriate method of compensation to be in instances of unsuitable pension transfer advice. And Im satisfied 
this method puts Mr G back, as far as possible, into the position he would have been in had 
he not transferred his BSPS benefits. I also think that Tenet being required to use the FCAs 
BSPS calculator will provide him with some assurance that the calculation has been carried 
out fairly.
I understand Mr G feels that the redress doesnt take account of the fact he withdrew TFC 
from his pension, and it has been sitting in his account without earning interest. Ive found 
that Tenet should not have advised Mr G to transfer out of the DB scheme and so Mr G 
would not have taken the TFC had he been advised to join the BSPS2. The redress 
methodology provides clear provisions on how to take into account withdrawals (which would 
include TFC) that wouldn't have happened if Mr G had remained in DB scheme. So Im 
satisfied the redress methodology accounts for Mr Gs concerns.
I note Mr G also doesnt think the £500 offered by Tenet fairly compensates him for the 
stress and worry the unsuitable advice caused him. But although Tenet initially rejected 
Mr Gs complaint, it ultimately accepted the advice it gave him was unsuitable. So, Mr G 
wouldve known from fairly early on in the process that Tenet would be carrying out a loss 
assessment to ensure he hadnt been financially disadvantaged by the advice. And although 
it wouldve undoubtedly caused Mr G distress finding out that he had cause to complain, Im 
mindful that it hasnt had an immediate impact on his retirement plans. Mr G is still working, 
and isnt yet reliant on his pension for his retirement, so it hasnt had an additional impact on 
his retirement planning. It also appears based on the calculations undertaken so far that 
Mr G hasnt been financially disadvantaged by the advice, so that should also provide him 
with some reassurance. So taking all of this into account, I think the £500 offered by Tenet is 
fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr G would most 
likely have joined the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
Tenet must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Tenet should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr G and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
Mr G has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, compensation should 
be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Gs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, CST should:calculate and offer Mr G redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr G before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr G receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr G accepts Tenets offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr G for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Gs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr G as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Tenet may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Mr G 
would otherwise pay on income from his pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Gs likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Tenet should also pay Mr G the £500 it offered to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require TenetConnect Limited 
to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I have also 
recommended that TenetConnect Limited pays Mr G the balance. 
If Mr G accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on TenetConnect 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
TenetConnect Limited should provide details of its calculations to Mr G in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman