DRN-3145511
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc reduced his overdraft to a level which hadnt been agreed
and provided him with poor customer service.
Mr M is represented by his wife in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill
refer to any submission and comments she has made as being made by Mr M himself.
What happened
Mr M had an agreed overdraft of £1,400 with TSB. In September 2019, Mr M exceeded his
arranged overdraft. An arrangement was put in place where TSB granted a temporary
overdraft of £1,490 and then this would gradually reduce until the overdraft limit was £1,400.
But this was broken by Mr M when he exceeded the temporary overdraft limit.
A new plan was put in place in October 2019, but this was broken also. In December 2019,
Mr M says that a new arrangement was put in place with a temporary overdraft which would
reduce to £1,400. Although this plan was also broken on occasions, Mr M did bring the
account in line with the reducing overdraft shortly after exceeding it.
Mr Ms overdraft was reduced to £1,380 in May 2020. Mr M complained to TSB. He said he
had poor customer service, was passed to departments which couldnt help him, he had
been hung up on and TSB refused to speak to his wife after he had given permission. Mr M
said the agreement was for the overdraft to be put in the original position of £1,400 and not
to reduce further. Mr M said he had been on the phone to TSB for 90 minutes on one
occasion and that he hadnt received a call back from a manager as promised.
TSB partially upheld Mr Ms complaint. They agreed that they should have given him a call
back, apologised and credited £25 to his account. Regarding Mr M being hung up on, they
said they couldnt locate any of the three calls he referred to. TSB said that although a call
lasted 90 minutes, there were a number of tasks which were carried out on the call such as
calling through to speak to the collections team, logging the complaint and raising a direct
debit indemnity claim.
TSB also said that the account went into collections as a result of Mr M breaking his final
repayment plan with them, but his account was now out of collections as he had maintained
his arrangement beyond this point. They said he had agreed to reduce the temporary
overdraft by £20 each month and this had been set out on the letter they sent him.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He
said that a number of repayment plans had been set up and letters had been sent to Mr M
with these arrangements. He said their letter dated 6 December 2019 had detailed that the
overdraft would reduce to £1,380 in May 2020 and that Mr M had not contacted them before
this date to dispute this.
In relation to the service he received, our investigator said that as Mr Ms account was only
set up in his sole name with no Lasting Power of Attorney or a third party access request,
then he would need to speak to TSB first before his wife would be able to speak on his
behalf. Our investigator said that although Mr M was on the phone for 90 minutes on one
occasion, this was reasonable due to the different things which Mr M wanted to do on the
call. Our investigator said the £25 that TSB had paid Mr M was reasonable for not giving him
a call back when promised.
Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. He asked for the phone calls to be
listened to, said that TSB needed to request that they were going to lower the overdraft to
less than £1,400 but Mr M didnt agree to this and that a manager agreed that a bank error
had been made. He also noted that TSB kept reducing the overdraft limit until it was £1,360
and they removed the overdraft after they refused to help Mr M.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I asked TSB for a copy of the calls from 2019, regarding the discussions about payment
arrangements that Mr M had made with them. TSB have said they dont have a copy of
these calls that they had with Mr M due to the time which has elapsed since these calls were
made. So while it would have been useful to listen to these calls Im unable to do so. Both
parties dont agree on several points. So Ive looked at all of the information available to me
in order to decide what is more likely to have happened and when, on balance of all the
evidence here.
I do think its likely that it was agreed to apply a temporary overdraft of £1,470 in December
2019. And then to reduce this for £10 for the first month and then for £20 each month until
May 2020. I cant say for certain whether the call handler explicitly told Mr M that this would
reduce the overdraft to £1,380 or whether that the overdraft would reduce for a number of
months, with Mr M being under the impression that the overdraft would stop reducing once it
decreased to £1,400.
I can also understand why Mr M would be under the impression that the overdraft limit would
stop reducing once it was reduced to £1,400. I say this as the previous plans showed it was
agreed that the overdraft would reduce to £1,400 over a number of months. But these plans
were subsequently broken by Mr M. As Mr Ms usual arranged overdraft limit was £1,400
then Im persuaded this is why he feels very strongly that he wouldnt have agreed to a lower
overdraft than £1,400.
But TSBs system notes for December 2019 show that this is the last agreement which TSB
were going to put in place for Mr M since the previous plans had been broken. It also says
that Mr M was informed of the consequences of breaking this plan and that he agreed to
make the payments on time.
The letter which was sent to Mr Ms address dated 6 December 2019 starts by saying
following our recent phone call, we're writing to confirm the payment arrangement we put in
place to help you reduce the money you owe on your Unarranged Overdraft. So I am
persuaded that the letter would be an accurate representation of the conversation the call
handler had with Mr M. The letter clearly states that his balance needs to be within £1,380
by 2 May 2020. So if there had been a misunderstanding on the phone, I would have
expected Mr M to query why the letter indicated that the overdraft would reduce to £1,380 ifthis hadnt been agreed.
Ive looked at Mr Ms statements. They show that the overdraft has reduced in line with what
the letter on 6 December 2019 said it would reduce by. I know Mr M has said that his
overdraft had reduced to £1,360 at one point but Ive seen no evidence to suggest this
happened. It appears that £1,380 was the lowest the overdraft was reduced to.
In terms of Mr M saying that TSB removed the overdraft, I asked TSB about this. TSB said
that they removed Mr Ms planned overdraft facility after he allowed his account to go into
arrears and broke several repayment plans. I can see that new arrangements were shortly
set up after the repayment plans were broken. So Im satisfied that TSB were fair in the
actions they took here. I know Mr M thinks that TSB have to ask them before they reduce or
remove an overdraft based on the terms and conditions of the account saying we can ask
you to repay an overdraft at any time. This could be some or all of it, including any interest
and charges. Although this sentence says they could ask them to pay the overdraft back,
the reality is that they do not need Mr Ms permission to do so.
I say this as the terms and conditions also show if we ask you to repay your overdraft or we
reduce your limit. So Im satisfied that TSB are able to reduce an overdraft limit without
asking Mr M, albeit they would usually  but not always  give him notice if they were going
to do this. As the previous system notes confirm that Mr M was told of the consequences of
missing a payment, I think on the balance of probabilities, it would have been explained to
him the implications of missing a payment could include the removal of the overdraft
facilities.
Ive considered what Mr M has said about a manager he spoke to informing him that a bank
error had been made by reducing the overdraft to £1,380 instead of £1,400. Again, TSB do
not have a copy of this call so Im unable to listen to this here. But based on the system
notes of the call, I am persuaded that Mr M was told this was a bank error. But Im also
persuaded that the information the manager told Mr M was incorrect, and that it wasnt
actually a bank error when the overdraft reduced to £1,380.
I say this as it appears the manager has referenced the earlier payment plans which had
been set up (before December 2019), which were set up to reduce to £1,400 then stop. Im
not persuaded the manager who told Mr M that TSB had made an error had investigated the
situation in depth, otherwise he would have saw from the system notes and the letter sent
out in December 2019 that a six month arrangement had been made to reduce the overdraft
to £1,380.
Although Im persuaded that the branch manager gave Mr M wrong information by saying
the bank had made an error by reducing the overdraft to £1,380, this error worked in Mr Ms
favour. I say this because the manager increased the overdraft to £1,400 where it appeared
to stay at this level moving forward as opposed to keeping the overdraft at £1,380 which the
evidence suggests this was agreed in December and was documented in the letter sent to
Mr M.
Ive then considered the poor customer service which Mr M said he received from TSB. I
asked TSB for all of the calls when Mr M contacted them about the overdraft reducing to less
than what he thought he had agreed to. While TSB couldnt find all of the calls made, they
provided me with three calls which Ive listened to.
One of these calls is where it appears that Mr M had been given the mortgage collections
telephone number. The call handler explains he cant help Mr M with his queries and offers
to transfer him to the correct department. Mr M asks for the correct telephone number in the
event hes disconnected and the call handler gets the telephone number for him. I canunderstand why it would be frustrating for Mr M to have been given the wrong telephone
number, but as the call only lasted three minutes, I cant say this wouldve had a great
impact on Mr M.
A separate call Ive listened to is where Mr M raises a complaint. Its clear that from the
beginning of the call that Mr M and the call handler didnt get off to a good start  the call
handler explains that she cant speak to collections as they wont discuss anything with her
which Mr M disputes this and believes the call handler isnt telling the truth. Mr M explains
that hes been disconnected twice and it appears theres been a problem when being
transferred to the collections department. The call handler then raises a complaint on behalf
of Mr M. By the end of the call the conversation was very amicable, Mr M apologised to the
call handler and the call handler apologised to Mr M for not being able to help him further.
Mr M has said hed been on the phone for 90 minutes. Theres no doubt that it would be
frustrating for Mr M to be on the phone to TSB for this long. But Ive considered why he was
on the phone for this long. It appears from the information Ive seen that Mr M had also
raised a direct debit indemnity claim and tried to speak to the collections department along
with raising the complaint. So while it was a long time he was on the phone, Im not
persuaded that it was an unreasonable time spent on the phone while trying to achieve
different things. The call handler explained that the reason for the previous calls being
disconnected could be due to how long he had been on the phone and while offering to
transfer Mr M to collections, the call handler also gave him the telephone number to him. So
I think this shows that the call handler was trying to be helpful, even though there was poor
rapport at the beginning of the call.
The last call I listened to is where Mr M has four questions for the call handler. The call
handler acknowledges what Mr M has asked and answered the four questions based on the
information available to him. He also adds Mr Ms new complaint points to the complaint for
him and Mr M says he feels satisfied at the end of the call. So Im satisfied there was no
evidence of poor customer service on this call.
But apart from the phone calls Ive listened to, I can see that TSB promised the complaint
would be escalated to a manager and that Mr M would receive a call back and this didnt
happen. Im persuaded that this will have had an impact on Mr M. So what I would expect
TSB to do here is to apologise for the poor customer service, recognise the impact that this
would have had on Mr M and to pay him compensation to reflect this. And thats what TSB
did here. They apologised for this, offered to pay any additional costs incurred such as
telephone call costs if Mr M felt they werent considered and credited his account with £25.
As Mr M had broken the final repayment plan he set up with TSB then Im satisfied that TSB
were fair to have the account in collections. I can see this came out of collections when the
plan had been maintained after this point.
Ive thought about what Mr M has said regarding call handlers refusing to speak to his wife
on the phone. None of the call handlers refused to speak to Mr Ms wife on the calls I
listened to, so I looked at the system notes to see if there was any indication where a call
handler had said that verification wasnt met. But all of the notes show that Mr M had been
verified then gave permission for his wife to speak on his behalf. It may be that a call handler
may have said they wouldnt be able to speak with Mr Ms wife without his consent, but I
cant find any evidence of any call handler refusing to speak to Mr Ms wife once he had
passed security.
Im persuaded the £25 compensation was fair for the poor customer service TSB gave Mr M
and would be broadly in line with what I would have awarded if TSB did not uphold this part
of the complaint. But the evidence shows, that the overdraft was agreed to reduce to £1,380from the TSB system notes and letter they issued in December. Although Mr M has said that
TSB hadnt helped him, they had set up a repayment plan even though he had broken the
previous repayment plans set up by TSB. So Im persuaded that TSB have helped him here
by making an arrangement with him when they didnt have to. So it follows that I do not
intend to ask TSB to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
Decision. TSB had no further comments to make. Mr M did not accept the provisional 
decision but he gave me no new information for me to consider for my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has presented me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman