DRN-2676929
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Sytner Group Ltd (Sytner) failed to transfer a deposit onto her new 
agreement to finance a car and that they didnt tell her GAP insurer about the change in car 
details.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs F, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs F acquired her car and financed the negative equity through regulated consumer credit 
agreements and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about them. 
the deposit
Payment receipts show Mrs F paid £1,075 upfront when securing her first car and I can see 
that £75 of that went towards the cost of stripes on the car, £424 was used to pay for GAP 
insurance and the remaining £579 reduced the negative equity that was to be financed 
through a fixed sum loan. 
The deposit wasnt used to reduce any of the payments due on her hire purchase agreement 
for the car and theres therefore no advance payment showing on that agreement.
So, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to show that the deposit has been lost. It was 
used to fund the GAP insurance, car stripes and to offset some of the negative equity.
the GAP insurance
The terms of the GAP insurance allowed it to be transferred to a new car.
Theres a dispute about who needed to tell the GAP insurer and whilst the insurer isnt sure 
who failed to supply the invoice they now seem to suggest it may have been Sytner. 
But, Mrs F didnt need to claim on the GAP insurance, and Ive seen comments from the 
insurer to suggest that, in these circumstances, they would have considered a claim anyway. 
So, I dont think theres sufficient evidence that Mrs F wouldnt have benefitted from the GAP 
insurance or that shes incurred any loss. I therefore dont think it would be reasonable to 
ask Sytner to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman