DRN-4132822
The complaint
Mr A has complained that American Express Services Europe Limited (who Ill shorten to 
AMEX) registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
AMEX reviewed Mr As credit card accounts following activity they found suspicious. They 
asked Mr A for bank statements, and Mr A provided some. But AMEX found that these had 
been falsified. They closed Mr As accounts and registered a marker against him at CIFAS 
for providing false documentation.
Mr A says he got the statements directly from the bank after phoning them. He disputes the 
outstanding balance of £1,049 on one of his cards, as a previous letter said there was a 0 
balance. He also complained about AMEX misspelling his name on an email, about using a 
debt collector, and about writing to tell him a merchant dispute hadnt gone through.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, AMEX were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr A had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed provided falsified documents, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, 
and which had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that 
both sides have said and provided, I think AMEX did have sufficient grounds to register this 
marker. Ill explain why.
Mr A may well have asked his bank for help getting statements. But the statements he gave 
to AMEX were not the same as the ones his bank provided. The technical information shows 
that the statements had been modified after Mr A downloaded them. There are numerous 
and significant discrepancies between the statements Mr A provided and his real bank 
statements, which had the effect of concealing his real account activity from AMEX. Given 
the nature of these discrepancies, its not likely or plausible that these were simply mistakes. 
We also ran the statements by Mr As bank, who confirmed theyd been falsified.
Im satisfied that Mr A provided false documentation to AMEX. It follows that AMEX were 
justified in registering a marker against him at CIFAS. It also follows that they were allowed 
to close his accounts, which they did in line with the terms and conditions.
Mr A pointed out that his own bank did not register a CIFAS marker. Thats because the 
marker is for providing false documentation. Mr A provided this false documentation to 
AMEX, rather than his bank. So it makes more sense for AMEX to register the marker, rather 
than his bank. In any case, AMEX were correct to add this marker.
Mr A also complained that the CIFAS marker made reference to his charge card. But the 
review  and the subsequent marker  related to all of Mr As AMEX accounts. So theres 
nothing wrong with the marker referring to his charge card.
Turning to the balance, I agree that the termination notice Mr A referred to said that his 
outstanding balance was 0. But it also said that any unbilled or pending transactions may not 
be included in that outstanding balance and will also need to be paid. There was a pending 
transaction of £1,049 which was not showing yet at the time of the letter, but did still need to 
be paid by Mr A. Once that transaction had processed and was no longer pending, AMEX 
were correct to list Mr As balance as £1,049. From what I can see, Mr A owes that £1,049 to 
AMEX and it does need to be paid. This is still in line with what the termination notice said.
As Mr A has an outstanding balance with AMEX, it is correct that they report it on his credit 
file. They are also allowed to employ debt collection agencies to chase Mr A for the money 
he owes them. 
Ive looked at the email where Mr A says AMEX misspelled his name. This email was only 
sent to Mr A, about a dispute of his. It didnt go to anyone else. So I dont see that there was 
any data breach, nor that any significant detriment was caused to Mr A. I find no good 
reason to make any award there  this was not an incident of any real significance.
Similarly, I can see AMEX contacted Mr A after his account was closed to let him know that 
the previous dispute hadnt gone through. They did nothing wrong there. Just because the 
account was closed, it doesnt mean they couldnt contact him ever again. And it seems right 
that AMEX let Mr A know the status of the dispute.
So having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, I find that 
AMEX did not do anything substantially wrong here. They acted fairly in closing Mr As 
account, registering a marker against him at CIFAS, and holding him liable for the debt he 
owes them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman