DRN-3420660
The complaint
Mr K complains, via a claims management company (CMC), that Pi Financial Ltd (Pi) gave 
him unsuitable advice to transfer the deferred benefits in his occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) to a personal pension causing him the loss of valuable guaranteed benefits.
What happened
Mr K held benefits in an OPS that had been deferred since 1994. The OPS had a normal 
retirement age of 65, although offered the options to take reduced benefits from age 55 
onwards. In 2019 the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) for Mr Ks deferred OPS 
benefits was around £130,000. This was the amount that would be paid into a pension to 
surrender the guaranteed benefits of the OPS.
Mr K had been made redundant and was out of work. He had a repayment mortgage, paying 
£578 per month, with 7 years left to pay. The balance due was around £50,000. And he had 
loan repayments around £120 a month.
In late 2019 Mr K met with an adviser from Pi regarding pension advice. At that time Pi 
determined that:
Mr K was 59 years old
Mr K was married with no financial dependants
Mr K was unemployed, but his wife worked earning £1,048 a month (net)
Had a mortgage with his wife 
Pi documented Mr Ks objective as wanting to reduce his mortgage and generate an income 
to support living expenses.
In December 2019 Pi recommended that Mr K transfer the CETV of his OPS to a personal 
pension, in order to take a tax-free lump sum around £32,500 and a taxable income of £400 
a month. Mr K followed the recommendation.
In February 2021 Mr K complained via a CMC that the advice hed been given was 
unsuitable. 
Pi looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. It explained why it thought the advice it 
provided was suitable for Mr Ks circumstances. It said its recommendation fully explained 
the alternatives and showed the benefits and risks of the transfer.
Mr K didnt agree so asked our service to look into what happened. Our investigator 
considered the evidence and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
the advice that Pi gave Mr K was unsuitable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator. Mr Ks CMC has 
explained that Mr K may have suffered a loss as a result of what happened. But for the 
reasons that will follow, I dont think that Pis advice was unsuitable for Mr Ks circumstances 
at the time.
Mr K held deferred benefits in an OPS. The normal retirement age for that OPS was 65. But 
the scheme allowed him to take benefits earlier, albeit at a reduced rate. Mr K was 59 years 
of age and was within the window that allowed him to take benefits from his OPS. But he 
was also able to transfer those benefits to a different type of pension that would allow him to 
take benefits in a different way. So Mr K was faced with a number of choices. Whether or not 
to access his pension at that time, and if so, in what way.
Pi had to have regard for the regulatory obligations on it when providing this type of advice. 
Both parties have referred to section 19.1.6G of the FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS). Which said that the starting point for any adviser should be the assumption that the 
transfer wouldnt be suitable and should only consider the transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that it was in the customers best interest. COBS 19.1.6G goes on to provide 
detailed guidance on what is expected of advisers. And Ive given careful consideration to 
this guidance along with other regulatory requirements in deciding a fair and reasonable 
outcome for this complaint.
Pi have shown us the fact find it completed, to understand Mr Ks circumstances, in 2019. It 
recorded that Mr K:
was out of work due to ill health and didnt see a prospect of getting another job; 
had no regular income and was concerned about meeting his mortgage payments 
and expenses;
had obtained a quote from his OPS already but the lump sum and income it offered 
wasnt enough to meet his needs.
I understand that these facts have been challenged by Mr Ks CMC, explaining that his 
health wasnt that bad, he was continuing to look for work, and hadnt decided to retire. I 
cant say what was actually discussed in the meetings Pi had with Mr K so have to decide, 
on a balance of probabilities, what most likely happened. 
The fact find document was signed and dated by Mr K. So, whilst I accept that it doesnt 
provide me with a verbatim record of what was discussed, I think its more likely than not that 
it contains a reasonable summary of the facts presented by Mr K. I think it unlikely that he 
would have signed it if it didnt. It was important, because Pi would have to rely on the 
information it was given to assess suitable options for Mr K.
I would also note that certain facts that I consider to be significant havent been disputed. 
Such as the fact that Mr K was out of work due to ill health and the household income and 
expenditure details. 
I appreciate that Mr K may well have been looking for work, and may have since found it. I dont mean this as a comment on Mr Ks employment prospects. But I think that, at 59, 
having lost his job because of his health, Pis explanation that Mr K was considering the 
options that his pensions offered him, because of a concern he may not find work, is 
reasonable. The documented income and expenditure look realistic and must have felt like a 
challenge to Mr K and his wife at that time. It seems reasonable that Mr K would consider 
options open to him to alleviate his immediate financial pressures if he could. 
Ive looked at the suitability letter that Pi sent Mr K. It again set out what Pi understood of 
Mr Ks circumstances. So presented a further opportunity for Mr K to challenge any 
misunderstanding where one existed. I would expect to see that Pi understood the benefits 
available to Mr K in his OPS and that it explained those to him in a clear and unbiased way. 
And Im satisfied that it did. It illustrated Mr Ks full benefits available at 65. And the benefits 
available to him at his next birthday, age 60. Both as an annual income, or as a pension 
commencement lump sum (PCLS) and reduced income.
I therefore think that Mr K ought to have had a good understanding of what his OPS benefits 
were. Both if he waited until the schemes normal retirement age, or if he took those benefits 
earlier. I also note that the documentary evidence implies that Mr K had already explored the 
option of accessing the benefits available to him through his scheme and could have done 
that without taking financial advice. So it seems that he considered that he needed more 
money in the short term than his scheme provided.
Pi was required to provide certain comparisons for Mr K. It needed to let him know the 
critical yield  the amount his transferred fund would have to grow by to provide equivalent 
benefits to his OPS. And I can see that it did this. It identified that transferring to take 
benefits at 60 had a critical yield over 50%. It meant that the transfer wasnt financially viable 
 meaning that the transfer would likely give lower overall benefits in the long run. Which 
was also the conclusion that Pi came to. It highlighted in bold red text that a transfer couldnt 
match the benefits being given up.
Pi also provided the critical yield to age 65 for a transfer of Mr Ks OPS. It was also too high 
to make a transfer financially viable. Which I think Pi clearly drew Mr Ks attention to. Overall, 
I think that Pi made it sufficiently clear to Mr K that his deferred benefits were valuable and 
couldnt be replicated if he transferred the CETV to a personal pension.
For Pi to be able to recommend a financially unviable transfer of Mr Ks pension, there would 
need to be other clear reasons that made the recommendation in his best interests. Which 
meant weighing up his objectives.
Pi reviewed the options available to Mr K and explained the pros and cons of the following 
options:
Option 1 involved leaving his benefits until age 65. Which it explained could give 
Mr K a tax free lump sum of £27,144 and pension of £4,071 a year. 
Option 2 involved transferring his CETV to a personal pension, taking 25% tax free 
cash and then purchasing an annuity with the remaining fund. It explained that would 
give Mr K an almost immediate lump sum of £32,560 and quoted an annuity at 60 
around £1,728.
Option 3 involved transferring as in option 2, but then using the residual pension fund 
to take a drawdown income to meet income needs now. It said that Mr K would be 
able to take a drawdown income of £4,800 a year from his pension. Which could be 
reduced on reaching his state pension age.Option 4 was to take the reduced existing OPS benefits immediately.
In Pis analysis of these options it explained that the immediate response would be to 
choose option 1, pointing out that the income in that case would be guaranteed and linked to 
inflation. But acknowledged that option 1 failed to meet Mr Ks objective of alleviating his 
current income requirement. Pi discounted option 2 because it didnt give Mr K the flexibility 
of income that its fact find indicated that he needed. Pi highlighted that the risk with option 3 
was that Mr Ks fund may not last long enough. So explained that it had done cash flow 
analysis to illustrate the potential implications on Mr Ks future income and when his pension 
fund would run out.
I can see that Pi conducted detailed cash flow analysis including the illustrations that it 
considered most relevant in the suitability letter. So, whilst other scenarios were considered 
in the analysis for Mr K, the one highlighted in the letter illustrated that Mr K could take the 
PCLS and required income of £4,800 a year (increasing in line with assumed inflation) up 
until his state pension age, when the drawdown stopped. It showed Mr Ks fund decreasing 
until state pension age before going on to recover. It summarised the other scenarios where 
further drawdowns would also be made to indicate what the fund might sustain.
This of course meant that Mr Ks pension benefits after reaching his state pension age would 
be lower than if he was able to wait until age 65 and take his OPS benefits. And given the 
way that it was explained by Pi, I think that ought to have been clear to Mr K. But it did 
achieve his aim of taking an immediate and larger PCLS as well as a larger income straight 
away. In effect, Pi was giving Mr K the option of giving up better benefits later (and overall), 
for better benefits now. It was clearly explained and Mr K was given the information to fully 
consider the recommendation, as well as the alternatives, so he could make an informed 
decision whether or not to follow it.
Pis recommendation was ultimately that Mr K transfer his OPS so that he could use the 
PCLS to pay off a large part of his mortgage and take the level of income that he needed. Pi 
have also shown that it carried out a potential income and expenditure exercise should Mr K 
transfer his pension. It showed the impact on Mr Ks household finances from the reduced 
mortgage payments and additional income. This was undoubtedly attractive to Mr K but was 
also a fair way to help Mr K understand the short term benefit of Pis recommendation.
Having considered all of the circumstances, I dont think that Pi failed to meet the 
requirements of COBS 19.1.6G. Its reasoning seems to have started from the presumption 
that the transfer wouldnt ordinarily be advisable. And its analysis and suitability report 
presented a recommendation, that was tailored to Mr Ks needs and objectives, in a fair and 
reasonable way. I have to conclude that Mr K was fully informed of his options and the 
advantages and disadvantages of each. Pi had to use its judgement to give Mr K a 
recommendation from those options. And the evidence doesnt lead me to conclude that Pis 
recommendation was unsuitable. So Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Gary LaneOmbudsman