DRN-2243792
The complaint
Mr E complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him irresponsibly 
What happened
Mr E was lent eight instalment loans between October 2012 and May 2014. Ive included 
some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan number loan amount received dateactual repayment 
date
1 £115 23/10/2012 15/03/2013
2 £100 16/03/2013 08/08/2013
3 £200 08/08/2013 16/08/2013
4 £100 24/08/2013 21/02/2014
5 £150 07/09/2013 20/01/2014
6 £50 30/11/2013 20/01/2014
7 £150 14/12/2013 20/01/2014
8 £250 15/05/2014 30/10/2014
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong to have lent the first six loans. But she did think 
Lending Stream shouldnt granted loans 7 and 8 as she thought the pattern of lending 
suggested they were unsustainable. 
Neither Mr E or Lending Stream have replied to the adjudicators view. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
Mr E doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Lending Stream wasnt 
wrong to have granted the first six loans. It seems therefore that this lending isnt in dispute 
and so I no longer think that I need to make a finding about it. 
So instead, this decision will focus on whether Lending Stream did anything wrong when it 
lent loans 7 and 8. But Ive kept the previous lending in mind when thinking about the overall 
lending relationship between Lending Stream and Mr E. 
Lending Stream had to assess Mr Es applications for borrowing to check if he could afford 
to pay back the amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way 
which was proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks could have taken 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the 
repayments and Mr Es income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should have done more to establish that 
any lending was sustainable for Mr E. These factors include:
Mr E having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr E having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long 
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr E coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr E.
At the time loan 7 was lent, Lending Stream was regulated by the Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT). The OFT required businesses to lend responsibly, this meant Lending Stream 
needed to check that Mr E could afford to repay his loans sustainably.
The guidance states that creditors should take reasonable steps to assess borrowers likely 
ability to be able to meet repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner. 
And it states that this is likely to involve more than solely assessing the likelihood of the 
borrower being able to repay the credit in question.
 
And when loan 8 was lent the industry regulator at that point, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), had set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are 
sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a 
lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Es complaint.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Lending Streams lending history with Mr E, to see if 
there was a point at which Lending Stream should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
And I agree with our adjudicator that Lending Stream should have realised this at the time it 
provided loan 7. I say this because:
By loan 7 it was over a year into the lending relationship during which Mr E had taken 
loans of between £50 to £200. In my view, Mr Es loan history up until this point was 
a clear indication that his underlying financial situation didnt seem to be improving. 
Indeed, by this point Mr E had three other loans outstanding with Lending Stream which I think ought to have alerted it to the possibility that he was having problems 
managing his money; 
Mr E took some loans shortly after having repaid previous ones. For example, loan 2 
was taken out shortly after repayment of loan 1, loan 3 was taken out the same day 
as repayment of loan 2 and loan 4 was taken out not long after loan 3 had been 
repaid. So Lending Stream ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr E, 
on these occasions, was having to borrow further to cover the hole the repayment of 
his previous loans had left in his finances and that this was indicative of his 
indebtedness not being sustainable;
Mr E was borrowing broadly similar amounts between £50 and £250. I think its most 
likely this consistent pattern of the level of borrowing over the period showed that    
Mr E didnt just have a short-term cash-flow problem but was probably supporting 
regular living expenses or other financial commitments;    
Mr Es lending history was prolonged with loans being taken out throughout 2013 and 
until May 2014. There was a break between loan 7s repayment and loan 8 being 
lent. But I dont think this was long enough to suggest Mr Es circumstances had 
improved given loan 8 was the largest loan and in light of his previous lending 
history. The amount of time that Mr E spent indebted to Lending Stream meant that 
he was, in effect servicing a debt to Lending Stream over an extended period.
I think that Mr E lost out when Lending Stream provided loans 7 and 8:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Es indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the sheer number of loans and the time spent in debt was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Es ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mr Es complaint about loans 7 and 8 and have set out what it should do to 
put things right as detailed below.
Putting things right
In order to put things right Lending Stream should:
refund all interest and charges Mr E paid on loans 7 and 8;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove loans 7 and 8 from Mr Es credit file entirely, this is because the period of 
time Mr E owed Lending Stream money means that any information still recorded 
about these loans is adverse. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Mr Es complaint. Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Mr E as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman