DRN-3029123
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1989. Mr and Mrs P says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Ps circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Bradford & Bingleys 
offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high 
commission and profit share Mr and Mrs P paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ps. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Bradford & Bingley should have 
disclosed the commission it received - but that Bradford & Bingleys offer to refund some of 
the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Bradford & Bingley made it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI 
and they chose to take it out. I say this because they ticked on their mortgage application 
to indicate they wanted the PPI and chose the benefit level.
Bradford & Bingley didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs P - so it didnt have to check 
that the PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs P enough 
clear and timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs P 
 for example they werent affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. 
And it wasnt too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the 
information they were given. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health or back problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs P would have declined the cover had Bradford & Bingley done anything 
more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs P would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Bradford & Bingley should have disclosed the 
poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it 
had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ps particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Bradford & Bingley doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs P.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.Having done so Ive decided Bradford & Bingley should have disclosed the commission it 
received and that Bradford & Bingleys offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate 
for the unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Bradford & Bingley didnt tell Mr and Mrs P about the high levels of commission and profit 
share paid in this case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Bradford & Bingley and Mr and Mrs P was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act because Bradford & Bingley didnt tell them about the high levels of 
commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think Bradford & Bingley acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs P 
because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs P should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Bradford & Bingley failed to tell Mr and Mrs P about the high commission 
and profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs P 
wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they 
should receive a refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr 
and Mrs P in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Bradford & Bingley not disclosing the 
high level of commission to them before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Ps representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Bradford & Bingleys failure to disclose the 
level of commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Bradford & Bingley to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs 
guidance and return some of the money Mr and Mrs P paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr and 
Mrs P with the policy Ive concluded above they would still have taken out if Bradford & 
Bingley had done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit 
share levels.
So I consider that Bradford & Bingleys offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Bradford 
& Bingley Plc should pay Mr and Mrs P an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and the 
estate of Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman