DRN-4227394
The complaint
A charity which Ill call R complains that Triodos Bank UK Limited treated them unfairly 
when it blocked their account.
The complaint is brought on Rs behalf by their director, Ms W.
What happened
R told us:
Their current account was held with Triodos and in February 2019, they sent the
bank a request to change the signatories on their account. The request was rejected
as Triodos said the form hadnt been completed correctly.
Shortly after, they sent the request to change the signatories again, this time they
also sent an additional form to change their address. Triodos accepted the change of
signatory form, but it said the change of address form was incorrect and returned it to
be completed correctly.
In July 2021, they needed to make their monthly payments (including salaries) and
noticed their current account had been restricted. Triodos didnt tell them a restriction
would be put in place, but they noticed on their bank statement that a temporary
block had been put in place due to the change of address.
They contacted Triodos who lifted the block just so the payments could be made and
told them what information was outstanding on the account. Due to issues relating to
the Covid-19 pandemic, they couldnt provide the information Triodos had requested
in time, so the same issue occurred in August 2021. However, due to the bank
holiday, Ms W couldnt get the block lifted and had to make the monthly payments
from her personal savings.
In early September 2021, they sent all the information requested by Triodos.
However, the bank didnt acknowledge receipt and when they logged into their 
account, they noticed the block hadnt been lifted. R then told them the information
hadnt been received in the right format.
From October 2021 onwards, they sent all the documents Triodos said it required,
however the bank then said the information wasnt correct, then it asked for
additional information that hadnt been requested originally.
They had provided all the information to Triodos, but the bank still hadnt removed
the restriction and they had been caused reputational damage as their payments
hadnt been made on time.
Triodos told us:
It rejected the original signatory change request in 2019 as it wasnt signed in
accordance with Rs bank mandate.
The change of address request was rejected because it wasnt completed correctly,
but this had been returned shortly after with instructions on what needed to be
completed.
It had waited for over a year for the required signatory forms to be returned and had
only limited the account in 2021 after the information hadnt been received.
It had then provided an alternative way to make the changes the charity had
requested in November 2021, but this wasnt received until March 2022.
In line with its regulatory obligations, it had requested further information about the
payments the charity had made in April 2021. This was received in May 2022
however due to an internal error the account restriction wasnt removed until October
2022.
It had initially lifted the restrictions on the account to allow payments to be made, but
when the information still wasnt received it increased the restriction on the account.
This had then prevented monthly direct debits being paid.
Our investigator didnt think Triodos had treated R fairly. She thought that R had been given 
conflicting information by the bank which meant it had taken an unnecessary amount of time
to remove the block from their account. She also said that if R had been given the full list of
requirements in July 2021, they wouldnt have been caused the inconvenience of repeatedly
calling the bank and sending incomplete information. So she thought Triodos should pay
£150 for the inconvenience caused but not the financial loss as R were aware that the bank
needed further information from them.
Triodos accepted the investigators opinion. R didnt agree. They said the compensation
wasnt enough for the inconvenience caused and also said that the further information
request hadnt been received until November 2021. R said that all the information had been
provided in March 2022, the bank asked for more information in May 2022 and despite this
being provided shortly after, their account remained blocked. So they asked for an
ombudsman to review their complaint and the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 June 2023. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to 
uphold it in part. Briefly, my provisional findings are:
oIt was reasonable for Triodos to apply restrictions to Rs account in July 2021, 
and so it would not be fair for me to award compensation for any losses R 
suffered as a result of the restrictions being imposed.
oHowever, Triodoss customer service was poor. In particular, it should have 
warned R that it would apply restrictions if R did not comply with its 
information requests.
oIn addition, Triodos should have removed the restrictions in May 2022 rather 
than in October 2022.oTriodos should pay R £1,000 in compensation for the inconvenience caused 
by its errors. 
I give more details about my findings below.
R says that Triodos has treated them unfairly by restricting their account, but Im not
persuaded thats the case. Triodos has regulatory obligations to ensure that it has 
sufficient knowledge of its customers, and that it is also protecting its customers 
adequately. I can see that R asked the bank to change their signatories and then 
subsequently their address in 2019, and that Triodos replied back to the charity 
explaining that it needed further information to undertake the changes. I can also see 
that Triodos wrote to R on at least six occasions throughout 2020 and explained on 
several more occasions from December 2020 to May 2021 that it couldnt accept the 
forms R had submitted as these hadnt been completed correctly. So I think it was 
reasonable that as the bank wasnt satisfied it could meet its regulatory obligations 
that it restricted Rs account.
However, I dont think Triodos treated R fairly in how it restricted their account. Ive 
looked at all the copies of correspondence provided by both parties, and I havent 
seen any evidence that Triodos made R aware that it would be restricting their 
account if they didnt provide the required information. The letters simply request that 
R provides the outstanding information so that the account can be updated. So I think 
Triodos should have done more here to make the charity aware of the consequences 
of not providing the information.
R says they were caused inconvenience from their director having to make payments 
from their personal account - but I dont agree. I can see that although Triodos 
restricted Rs account in around February 2021, when the charity contacted them to 
say they needed to make salary payments, the bank temporarily removed the 
restriction to enable them to do so. So I dont think Triodos acted unreasonably here.
I recognise the director says they had to make the salary payment in August 2021 
due to the bank holiday which was unfair. But I think R ought reasonably to have 
been aware that the payment would fall due on a date that the bank was closed and 
therefore couldnt remove the restriction, and that the restriction would still be in 
place as they still hadnt provided the information which Triodos had requested and 
reminded them of in the call of 28 July 2021. And in any event, Im only able to make 
an award for inconvenience suffered by the charity as the complainant, and not for
any inconvenience suffered by the director in her personal capacity.
R also says that they did provide the information requested by the bank, but it then 
asked for additional information which was unfair. They say that as a result of this 
they were caused reputational damage and incurred financial losses. Firstly, I want to 
say that I dont think its unreasonable that Triodos asked R to provide the additional 
information that it requested. The terms of the account say that eligibility criteria can 
change at any point and that changes can be made to reflect changes in industry 
guidance. They also allow for Triodos to carry out any due diligence it requires to 
adhere to regulations. So whilst I acknowledge the timing for the initial request for 
further information in November 2021 was inconvenient to R, I cant say it was unfair 
for the bank to do so.
However, I do think Triodos could have communicated this better and by not doing 
so, it has caused R inconvenience. Ive seen evidence that the charities rental direct 
debit payments for November and December 2021 were unpaid by the bank which 
they were unaware of until their landlord contacted them. I recognise Triodos was able to do this in line with the account restriction, however I cant see that R was 
given warning by the bank that this additional limitation would take place. And given 
that it appears previous payments had been made since the account had been 
restricted in February 2021, I think Triodos should have given R the opportunity to 
make alternative arrangements.
R also says that because of this, they incurred a fine of £1,800 as they werent able 
to make their regulatory payments. But Im not persuaded thats the case. I agree 
that R couldnt make their direct debit payments from the account with Triodos during 
that time, however, the regulatory payment had been due in early 2022  before they 
had provided the required documents to Triodos. Ive also seen that R had the ability 
to make the required payments by account transfer to avoid the penalty in April 2022, 
but incorrect account details had been provided by R to their accountant who was 
making the payment on the charitys behalf. I also think, based on Triodoss previous 
actions that if R had contacted the bank and explained the situation in which they 
found themselves, I think the bank would have removed the restrictions temporarily 
to allow the regulatory payments to go through. So I cant reasonably hold Triodos 
responsible for the penalty they received.
That being said, I can see that R provided all the outstanding information requested 
by Triodos and the bank acknowledged it on 31 May 2022  but the account 
restriction wasnt removed until October 2022 which was unfair. I also cant see that 
this was communicated to R, except through this service at that time. Its not for me 
to fine or punish a business for making a mistake, and Triodos has accepted that its 
service fell below the level that R should have received, However, as a result of the 
banks actions and poor communication, R has been without an active account for 
around six months, which has meant making alternative arrangements to make their 
regular payments and the payment to the regulator in June and July. They have also 
been caused inconvenience from having to contact the bank and this service about 
outstanding information that the bank had already received. So to put things right, I 
think Triodos should pay R £1,000 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
I invited R and Triodos to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. R didnt say whether they agreed or disagreed with 
the decision. Triodos also didnt say whether it agreed or disagreed with the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision, and I 
now confirm those provisional conclusions as final. Ill explain why.
R says that they dont feel their complaint has been resolved as their account remains 
restricted and therefore, they dont wish to accept the decision. I acknowledge that Rs 
account is currently restricted, but I have explained in previous correspondence to Ms W that 
the current restriction is as a result of further information not being provided to Triodos which 
it requires as part of its customer annual review process. I think its also worth noting here 
that I have told Ms W where R can access this information request, and should they require 
assistance in completing this, Triodos has offered a direct contact to assist them. Triodos 
has also told us it has also offered this to R directly - however, I havent seen any evidence 
that they have requested any assistance. R now says that they dont believe they have received interest on the credit balance on their 
account for the last two years. However, Triodos has told us that the account type that R 
holds isnt an interest-bearing account. This means that R wouldnt have been due any 
interest while the account was blocked  or when it wasnt  so I dont think the bank has 
done anything wrong here. In any event, Ive seen that Triodos previously lifted the block 
when requested by R to make payments, so I think its possible that had the charity asked 
the bank to lift the block temporarily so they could transfer their credit balance to a higher 
interest-bearing account, that it would have done so. 
R says that Triodos hasnt communicated the reason for the account blocks to the charity, 
but Im not persuaded thats the case. Ive seen evidence from letters and emails that explain 
why R needs to provide specific information so that the bank can undertake its checks. I 
recognise that Triodoss explanations may not be in the level of detail that R would like, but 
the bank isnt obligated to provide R with any more justification than it already has. However, 
Triodos has provided us with the evidence on which its decision to request additional 
information from R was based, and I think this was reasonable. 
As a service, we're governed by rules set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). They're called the DISP rules and can be found in the FCA's handbook. 
These rules set out how we approach complaints, in this case DISP rule 3.5.9(R) allows me 
to accept information in confidence where I consider it appropriate to do so. Ive agreed and 
accepted this with Triodos, and therefore although I recognise R may wish further 
clarification about the banks information requests, I wont be commenting further on the 
specific evidence it has provided regarding this point.
R also says that it has incurred fees and charges as a result of the banks actions and their 
direct debits being cancelled. However, Im not persuaded the fees or fines R says they 
incurred was as a result of Triodos actions. I say this because R was made aware that their 
direct debits had been unpaid in November 2021 when they were contacted by their 
landlord. And whilst I agree this was inconvenient - and for which I have awarded 
compensation accordingly - I havent seen any evidence that they incurred any fees as a 
result of this, and they were also able to make alternative payment arrangements. I also 
havent seen any evidence that the charity has incurred any costs or fees as a result of any 
other payments not being made during the time it was unaware its regular payments had 
been restricted aside from the regulator fine addressed in the provisional decision. 
R says that they incurred a regulator fine due to the bank cancelling their direct debits, but 
Im not persuaded thats the case. I can see that the fine was issued because pension 
payments werent made as expected in early 2022, but by this point R was already aware 
there was an issue with their direct debits. I cant see they initially took any steps to mitigate 
this, such as contacting the bank to explain what had happened, and when they did look to 
make alternative arrangements, they made an internal error with the payment details which 
meant the payment wasnt made for several more months. So I cant reasonably hold 
Triodos responsible for financial losses R incurred, which the charity themselves may have 
prevented had they not given their accountant incorrect account details.
R says that Triodos actions were unreasonable, and I agree that the banks service could 
have been better. So I have taken this into consideration when making my award for the 
inconvenience caused to R. However, Im not persuaded that Triodos is responsible for the 
financial losses the charity says they have incurred. So I wont be asking the bank to take 
any further action on this complaint point.  My final decision
My final decision is that I direct Triodos Bank UK Limited to pay R £1,000 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused. I make no award in respect of the financial losses R claims.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman