DRN-3953579
The complaint
Mr D complains that Crowdcube Capital Limited gave him misleading information about a
company (A) he invested in through its platform. He wants Crowdcube to reimburse him for
his losses.
What happened
Crowdcube is an investment-based crowdfunding platform that promotes investment
opportunities by way of pitches. Prospective investors can view information about an
investee business and the details of the investment in these pitches on the platform before
deciding whether to invest. In return for their investment they receive shares in the investee
business.
Mr D invested around £300 in A through Crowdcubes platform initially in 2015. He then went
on to invest a further £200 in A following another fundraise on Crowdcubes platform in 2017.
As well as the funds it was raising through Crowdcube, A had a loan facility with a bank
(B). The second tranche of this loan was due to be released a few months after the
crowdfunding round. When the time came, B didnt release the additional funds because A
hadnt met certain revenue targets built into the terms of the loan. Shortly afterwards, A was
sold, resulting in Mr D making a substantial loss on his investment.
Mr D complained to Crowdcube about the most recent fundraise in 2017 only. He said
Crowdcube had failed in its duty to keep the language in the pitch honest and grounded.
He said the pitch talked in glowing terms about As future but only a year later its been sold
at a nominal value.
Mr D said that although the pitch mentioned the loan facility with B, it didnt make it evident
or obvious that there were covenants in place. He said that if B had added covenants to the
loan, then A ought to have been aware of what would happen if it didnt meet these
conditions.
He also said the pitch mentioned that As management team consider the company an
attractive acquisition for established players and that A was actively exploring dialogues
with several leading brands. Mr D said this was concerning for two reasons. Firstly, if A was
actively exploring a potential purchase of the company, it ought to have been aware of an
indication as to how much it may sell for. And secondly, that the potential for future profit
enticed him to make the investment.
Crowdcube considered Mr Ds complaint but didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said equity
crowdfunding investments are high-risk and unfortunately not all investments will provide
investors with a positive return. It said it reviews and approves every pitch on the platform to
ensure that all the information presented is fair, clear and not misleading.
Mr D remained unhappy and so he referred his complaint to this service for an independent
review.
Crowdcube provided further information in its submissions to this service, with regards to the
loan with B. It said:
Before the pitch launched, it completed its due diligence process on A and in the 
course of this, A disclosed a technical breach of a covenant in the loan with B.
Its legal team confirmed that neither the covenants nor the breach was unusual given 
the nature and size of the loan with B.
Its legal team had sight of communications with B where it was clear that the breach 
was waived, and a replacement covenant was in the process of being negotiated.
A condition of completion of the fundraising round was that the negotiation with B 
needed to be completed first and a suitable replacement covenant, that was no more 
punitive than the original, needed to be substituted into the loan document.
A legal explanatory note, which was shared with investors such as Mr D, made it 
clear that the 2016 financial covenants were in the process of being amended and 
would be finalised before the completion of the fundraising round. It was also made 
clear that the covenants of the loan were both positive and negative.
Within the financial snapshot, which was also shared with investors, it was also 
disclosed that access to the second tranche of funding through the loan with B was 
subject to cash consumption and revenue targets.
Before the round was completed and any funds were drawn down, Crowdcube 
received evidence to ensure the terms of the loan covenant were finalised for the 
breach and there was no punitive impact on A and, as a result, its investors.
A suffered a different breach of the same covenant in the loan in September 2017 
and B clarified that it would not be making the second tranche of the loan available.
Information was made widely available to investors, such as Mr D, that the loan was 
conditional on targets being met, a covenant was in the process of being 
renegotiated and finalised and that there were both negative and positive covenants 
within the loan instrument. And investors were encouraged to complete their own due 
diligence, including making enquiries to A directly if they required further information.
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt think Crowdcube had done anything
wrong. He said Crowdcube had warned Mr D the investment in A was high risk and that the
company could fail. On its website it also said investors should take care to carry out their
own due diligence on prospective investments. He thought Crowdcubes communications
about the investment in A had been clear that the company had existing bank borrowing,
with covenants attached. Overall, he thought it had done enough to explain the risks of the
investment and had presented information about A in a clear way.
As Mr D didnt agree, the complaint was been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023 explaining why I didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. I include a copy of this below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What were Crowdcube's obligations?
To be clear I can only consider the obligations Crowdcube had towards Mr D as an investor
when arranging the investment. I cant consider any actions of A. With this in mind, Ive
considered Crowdcubes obligations.At the time of promoting the investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised and
regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required
to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. The FCA Principles for
Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all authorised firms are
required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in whole or in part to every
firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The most relevant principles
here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving As pitch, Crowdcube needed to satisfy itself that the information 
contained within it was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be satisfied that
by approving the promotion and allowing its clients to invest in A, it would continue to be
acting in its clients best interests.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions
made in the pitch, Crowdcube would need to carry out reasonable checks. What these
reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given case, is something
which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary according to the
particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to provide a set of
tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved.
I note that in its policy statement PS14/4 the FCA said of the due diligence expected of
crowdfunding firms (my emphasis):
we expect sufficient detail to be provided to give a balanced indication of the 
benefits and the risk involved, including whether or not any due diligence has been 
carried out on an investee company, the extent of the due diligence and the outcome 
of any analysis."
In 2015 the FCA issued a review of the regulatory regime for crowdfunding where it said:
Firms need to provide investors with appropriate information, in a comprehensive
form, so that they are reasonably able to understand the nature and risks of the
investment, and, consequently, to make investment decisions on an informed basis".
One of the areas of concern the FCA identified was a situation where a platform provided:
insufficient, omitted or the cherry-picking of information, leading to a potentiality
misleading or unrealistically optimistic impression of the investment.
So Crowdcube needed to ensure any information it gave Mr D about A was fair, clear, and
not misleading, and enabled him to make an informed decision whether to invest, armed withknowledge of the nature and risks of an investment into the company.
Was Crowdcubes promotion of A fair, clear and not misleading?
Mr D has raised concerns regarding the language used in the pitch and these mainly centre
around three issues - the financial projections for A, a potential acquisition of A and the loan
with B.
Mr D has given the following example in the pitch which he says highlights his concerns
regarding the financials of A:
"Growth projections - We're targeting 50% year on year growth for the next 3 years,
tripling revenues from £4.6M (2016) to £13.8M by 2019."
Whilst I appreciate this does give a positive outlook for A and I understand this may have
enticed Mr D to invest, I dont think Crowdcube has acted unfairly by including this in the
pitch. Crowdcube has confirmed that it performed due diligence on this, and I can see that
these projections are in line with the financial snapshot document which was provided to
investors.
Ive also considered Mr Ds concerns regarding the language used in the pitch around a
potential acquisition of A. Mr D has highlighted the following statement in the pitch:
The Management Team consider the company an attractive acquisition for
established players [] We are actively exploring dialogues with several leading
brands.
Again, whilst I understand the prospect of a potential acquisition of A may have enticed Mr D
to invest, I dont think Crowdcube has acted unfairly by including this in the pitch. The
statement didnt confirm A had found a buyer, rather it said it was exploring this as an option.
As such, I dont think Crowdcube needed to check anything here, such as there being a
potential purchaser of A, as it was clear A wasnt currently at this stage.
In terms of the loan with B, it would appear from Mr Ds submissions that his concerns are
that Crowdcube didnt making it evident or obvious that covenants were included in the loan.
I will consider this point. But I will also go on to address the points put forward by Crowdcube
in its submissions to this service around A previously breaching the loan covenant prior to
promoting the latest round of investment. Id like to clarify that whilst Mr D may not have 
complained specifically about this, our service has an inquisitorial remit, which allows me to
consider the subject matter of a complaint as a whole and not limited to just considering the
specific complaint points or alleged losses that are put to us by a complainant. The courts
have upheld this approach  for instance in R (Williams) v Financial Ombudsman Service
[2008] EWHC 2142 (Admin), Irwin J said:
The ombudsman is dealing with complaints, not causes of action. His jurisdiction is
inquisitorial not adversarial. There is a wide latitude within which the ombudsman can
operate.
Firstly, in addressing the complaint point Mr D has made, Im satisfied Crowdcube did make
Mr D aware that the loan with B was subject to loan covenants. I say this as explanatory
note document provided to investors explained:
The agreement for this loan includes the following terms:
[]
Various warranties and representations.Various positive and negative covenants given on the Company.
Ongoing financial covenants in respect of the Company's cash and revenue. These 
financial covenants are in the process of being amended and will be finalised prior to 
the completion of this investment round.
Various events of default (including a failure to comply with the financial covenants), 
on which [B] may declare all outstanding amounts payable on demand and enforce 
its charges over the Company's assets.
Furthermore, the financial snapshot document also disclosed that the loan with B was,
subject to achieving cash consumption and revenue targets and so Im satisfied
Crowdcube gave Mr D fair, clear and not misleading information regarding the loan being
subject to covenants.
Now turning to the previous breach, its not in dispute that Crowdcube knew about the
covenant breach, so as part of my inquisitorial remit, Ive considered whether it ought to
have included that information in what it told Mr D about the investment in A.
The explanatory note documents says A has an agreement to borrow a total of £3.5million
from B. At the time of the crowdfunding raise, it had drawn down £2million of the facility, with
the rest available to be drawn down some months later. As Ive explained above, the note
goes on to say this second tranche is dependent on A meeting revenue targets and that
there are financial covenants in the loan agreement relating to As cash and revenue, and
that these covenants are in the process of being amended. Similarly, the financial snapshot
mentions the covenants and says A needs to hold particular levels of cash.
In my view, going into detail about the covenants in place, and the fact they were being
renegotiated - but failing to say why, or that theyd previously been breached - failed to give
a full and clear picture of the loan arrangement. The documents give no indication that A
was concerned about its ability to meet the loan covenants, and says it thinks the
crowdfunding raise should give them enough cash to meet their debt covenants for some
time.
The promotion details that the covenants were in the process of being amended and that 
failure to comply with the covenants could result in the loan facility being called in by B. I
accept that the newly negotiated covenants may have been on different terms, and that not
every background detail needs to be included in a promotion in order to make it clear and
not misleading. But in these particular circumstances, where the promotion details that A
was reliant on a lending facility involving covenants relating to As cash position, I find that
the promotion failed to give full context to the statements about the covenants without
mentioning the previous breach, and wasnt fair, clear and not misleading as a result.
Even if the new covenant was different to the old one, and the previous breach had been set
aside by B. The previous breach said something about As ability to manage its finances in
line with a lending arrangement, of a similar nature and with the same lender. I dont think
the technical differences between the old and renegotiated covenants get away from the fact
that the investment in A was promoted including details of a significant loan facility, yet a
recent breach of the terms of that facility wasnt mentioned.
So overall Im not persuaded Crowdcube communicated with Mr D in a fair, clear and not
misleading way about his investment. It was aware of material information about As history
with regard to borrowing which the company needed to remain solvent.
Did the omission affect Mr D's decision to invest?
Even if I were to make a finding that Crowdcube did provide misleading information, thisdoesnt necessarily mean I think the complaint would be upheld. I need to decide whether
clearer information about the circumstances surrounding the covenants and the loan
arrangements would have made a difference to Mr Ds decision to invest. Ive thought very
carefully about this, but on balance, Im currently persuaded he would have still invested
despite Crowdcubes potential failing. Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
As part of his complaint, Mr D says it wasnt made evident or obvious that there were loan
covenants in place. Whilst I think Crowdcube failed to reveal that A had previously breached
loan covenants, I think Crowdcube made it clear that loan covenants where in place.
Therefore, its clear Mr D didnt rely on the details of the loan covenants when deciding to
invest in A. So it follows, that had Crowdcube disclosed there had been a previous breach of
the covenants, Im not persuaded this would have impacted Mr Ds decision to invest.
From Mr Ds submissions, it appears to me that his decision to invest was based on the
pitchs statements on As future, such as its growth projections and the potential for profit
following an acquisition of the company. Furthermore, I think its worth noting that Mr D had
previously invested in A back in 2015 and so this suggests that he already had an interest in
this company and believed in the companys overall success. So on balance, Im persuaded
Mr D would have still invested had Crowdcube disclosed that A had previously breached the
loan covenant, which leads me to say this complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Crowdcube accepted my provisional findings and had no further comments. However, Mr D 
didnt agree. In summary, he said the assumptions I made about what he would not have 
done was incorrect and that I seem to have forgiven Crowdcubes failings. He said the fact 
that he invested in A previously was irrelevant as things had changed when he invested in 
2017 compared to 2015. He also said that the wording for the investment in 2017 was 
glowing and suggested that the initial investment had been a good decision. But in fact, it 
was far from the truth. 
As Mr D disagreed, the complaint has been passed back to me to issue my final decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further comments made by Mr D, but Ive not found reason to change the 
outcome I set out in my provisional decision. 
Firstly, I acknowledge the further comments Mr D has made about the assumptions Ive 
made about whether he would have still invested but for Crowdcubes failing in not notifying 
him of the loan covenant breach. I appreciate that Mr D feels Im not in a position to second 
guess what he would or would not have done and that Ive forgiven Crowdcubes failings by 
not upholding his complaint. However, in order to determine this complaint, Ive must not 
only establish whether Crowdcube provided him with fair, clear and not misleading 
information, but also determine whether he would have invested but for the misleading 
information having been provided. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, it was clear from Mr Ds submissions that he was 
unaware that loan covenants were even in place, despite Crowdcube providing this 
information in the promotional information. So as he invested without considering the loan 
covenants information, I think he would have still invested had Crowdcube provided clarity 
around the loan covenant breach in the information regarding the loan covenants. I also acknowledge Mr Ds comments around his investment in A in 2015, but Im afraid I 
dont agree that this previous investment has no relevance to his further investment in A in 
2017. I accept that he reviewed the new promotional information regarding the investment in 
2017, but I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that he already had an interest in A by 
virtue of his first investment and that he believed in the companys overall success. I 
understand Mr D says the promotional information for the investment in 2017 was glowing 
and suggested that the initial investment had been a good decision, but Ive already 
explained why I think the statements made were fair, clear and not misleading and I dont 
have any further comments to make on this beyond those which were included in my 
provisional findings above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman