DRN-1518813
The complaint
Mr E went on to Confused.coms website to search for motor insurance in its capacity as a 
comparison website and insurance broker. Mr E complains that Confused.com made an 
error in providing information to his insurer that has led to him paying more for his insurance. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mr E took out a new motor insurance policy through Confused.coms online 
platform. He said that when he applied, he was presented with a number of policies to 
choose from. And that he selected his preferred option and received his policy documents 
the next day, but they incorrectly showed his car as having had four modifications.
Mr E called his insurer straight away to complain. He said he input that his car had five 
modifications when he applied through Confused.com and received a quote on that basis. 
So he was unsure why the policy showed just four. 
Mr Es insurer confirmed that the price quoted was based on just four modifications. And 
said that if Mr E wanted to continue with this cover, there would be an additional charge of 
£76.97 (£46.97 for the additional premium, plus a £30 administration charge). Unhappy with 
this response, Mr E complained to Confused.com.
Confused.com looked into Mr Es complaint but didnt uphold it. It said that only four 
modifications had been entered onto the quote screen when Mr E applied. And that as this 
was the quote Mr E accepted, it didnt think it had done anything wrong in forwarding the 
same information on to Mr Es insurer. 
Mr E was unhappy with the above response and brought his complaint to our service. He 
said it was unfair he was being charged extra due to what he felt was Confused.coms error. 
And he provided screenshots to support his position.
An investigator looked into the matter. He said Confused.com had provided evidence to 
show that the quote Mr E accepted was based on an application that included just four 
modifications. And he thought this evidence was more persuasive than that provided by 
Mr E. So he did not recommend Mr Es complaint be upheld. 
Mr E rejected the investigators findings. He re-iterated that the quote generated was based 
on him inputting five modifications, and he asked for a final decision on the matter. So the 
case has come to me, as an ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The two key pieces of evidence for me to consider when looking at this case, are the 
screenshots provided by Mr E, and the quote records provided by Confused.com. Both of 
which show information about the applications Mr E made in July 2019.
The screenshots provided by Mr E do suggest that on one of the applications he made, he 
did indeed input that his vehicle had five modifications. These were listed as one relating to 
wheels/tyres, two relating to the engine/transmission, and two relating to 
breaks/suspension/steering. And I appreciate Mr E believes this was the information the 
quote he accepted was based on.
Confused.com has provided evidence showing that on the day he took out the policy, eight 
different quotes were generated by Mr E  some showing four modifications on his car, and 
some listing five, and each with its own unique customer activity ID (ID). 
Mr Es explained the reason he ran more than one application is because Confused.coms 
website didnt cover every modification you could make to a car. And that his car had 
changes to the engine and exhaust system that he initially though could be covered under 
one modification, but on reflection, felt it may be safer to list as two. 
I accept Mr Es explanation for the multiple applications, and I dont think that he has 
attempted to be misleading in any way. But the evidence hes provided doesnt show any 
identifiers. So I cant be certain as to which of the eight quotes generated these screenshots 
relate to.
Confused.coms system notes, however, show the final application included four 
modifications. This application, as well as all the others, has a unique ID. The quote which 
was accepted has the same ID. On the accepted quote data, alongside the ID, there is a 
policy number. And this is the same number thats used as a customer identifier in the 
insurers correspondence with Mr E. 
I appreciate that Mr E firmly believes the quote generated was based on him inputting five 
modifications, but Confused.coms evidence specifically links the data he input to the 
quotation he accepted, showing just four were declared. So I think its most likely the quote 
he accepted was based on him inputting four modifications to his car, and not the five hes 
said. 
While I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Mr E, for the above reasons, Im 
not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman