DRN-2021049
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage and unsecured loan Miss P took out in 2006. It was 
originally taken out with Northern Rock (later NRAM) on the advice and recommendation of 
a broker firm Ill call M. The mortgage and loan are currently held by Landmark Mortgages 
Limited. Miss P has now sold her property but even after borrowing money from family, shes 
been left with a shortfall thats she currently trying to repay under an arrangement with 
Landmark. 
Miss P is unhappy with how Landmark has managed the arrangement and with the 
information it has recorded on her credit file. Shes also unhappy that the mortgage was 
transferred to Landmark in the first place (she says it paid NRAM less than the value of the 
debt) and that it is about to be transferred again to a different lender. More generally, Miss P 
believes the mortgage and unsecured loan were mis-sold at the outset
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 8 July 2020, I explained why I wasnt minded to 
uphold Miss Ps complaint. Below is an extract from my provisional decision setting out my 
findings on the key issues of the complaint.
Sale of the mortgage and loan
Neither Landmark nor NRAM was responsible of the sale of the mortgage and loan; the 
advice and recommendation to take them out was given by the broker M. Had M still been 
trading, then subject to it meeting the requirements of our rules, we may have been able to 
consider a separate complaint against M about the sale. However, as I understand it, M is no 
longer authorised by the regulator to conduct business, which is highly suggestive that it is 
no longer trading.
When someone believes they have a legitimate claim against a defunct business, the 
appropriate body to take that claim to is the FSCS. So Im satisfied Landmark did the right 
thing in referring Miss P to the FSCS and providing her with its contact details. I appreciate 
Miss P felt aggrieved at not being given Ms contact details in the September final response, 
but I dont think that will have prejudiced her in any way. Landmark gave Miss P the 
information she needed to start a claim about the sale of the mortgage.
Transfer of the debt between lenders
It is a standard term in all mortgage contracts that the lender has the right to transfer the 
debt to another lender. I cant say if that was drawn to Miss Ps attention at the start (it would 
have been down to the broker M or her conveyancing solicitor to do so) but its normal 
practice, perfectly regular and not the slightest bit illegal or criminal, as Miss P has alleged. 
Miss P believes very strongly that Landmark acquired her debt for less than she actually 
owes. That may or may not be true, but for reasons Ill set out next, the point is moot. When 
a mortgage debt is transferred, the new lender (in this case, Landmark) doesnt buy each 
debt individually. What generally happens is that it buys a book of several thousand 
mortgages all at once in a single transaction. 
The terms of the transfer are commercially sensitive and confidential between buyer and 
seller; not least because they have no bearing on the underlying debt owed by an individual 
borrower and their liability under the contract. All that changes is the identity of the creditor to 
which the debt is owed.
The other point to make is that when a new lender acquires a mortgage book in the way Ive 
described, its not just taking on the debts themselves; its also taking on the risk that the 
debts might not be repaid in full. That transfer of risk will have been factored into the terms of 
the transfer of debt to Landmark.  
All Id say further on the general point of the transfer of a debt to a new lender is that the 
broad principles Ive outlined above would also apply in the event Landmark was to consider 
transferring mortgage and loan debts it currently holds to another lender, as Miss P has 
suggested might happen.
The shortfall agreement
Ive no doubt the continuing existence of the shortfall debt is very unwelcome for Miss P; in 
that context, Im not unsympathetic. Nonetheless, it is a genuine and valid debt, and theres 
no basis under which I could fairly say it should be have been written off and her liability for it 
waived. So there had to be some form of mutually-agreed payment arrangement between 
Miss P and Landmark (or any new creditor in the event a further transfer took pace) such as 
the one that was put in place in 2019. Without that, Landmark (or a successor creditor) could 
have considered legal action.
Such arrangements have to take account of a persons individual circumstances; lenders are 
subject to strict regulation that requires them to assess the affordability of a proposal. Such 
assessments are for lenders judgement, and we wont typically second-guess or otherwise 
interfere with how they exercise that judgement. 
Of course, its reasonable to expect that once an agreement has been reached, the lender 
should administer it correctly. Its common ground that Landmark omitted to record the 
details of the discussion it had with Miss P in July 2019. Its always regrettable when 
mistakes happen, but in this case Landmarks done the right thing by admitting the oversight, 
apologising and, as I understand it, offering Miss P £50 for the inconvenience. 
In my view, thats a reasonable response, and I dont consider any further remedial action is 
necessary. What is necessary, in my view, is for Miss P (if she hasnt already) to re-engage 
in a new dialogue with Landmark to try and agree a fresh arrangement without recrimination 
over what has gone before. Otherwise, the potential for legal action remains.
Credit file reporting
Lenders are required to report the status of their customers accounts to credit reference 
agencies accurately and fairly. Where theres been an error, well consider whether it has 
been detrimental to the individuals over credit profile. In Miss Ps case, neither the mortgage 
nor the unsecured loan have been repaid in full. So its reasonable and fair that Landmark 
would report both as being partially settled rather than settled. 
Ive looked at Miss Ps credit file and it shows that Landmark recorded the mortgage as 
partially settled and the loan as settled. In the latter case, that was an error, but one that 
was beneficial rather than detrimental to Miss P. That being the case, theres no reason for 
me to order Landmark to change anything.
Other mattersIn his informal view of the complaint, the investigator referenced a phone conversation with 
Miss P in which she said requests for the mortgage to be switched from interest-only to 
capital repayment had been refused on affordability grounds. This wasnt something that 
was covered in either of Landmarks final responses, but for completeness, Ill simply say 
that this too was something that, like the shortfall payment arrangement, will have involved 
Landmark having to exercise its judgement and assess affordability. As I said earlier, thats 
not something well generally interfere with.
Neither party has made any further material arguments in response to the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further substantive argument, Ive no reason to depart from my 
provisional conclusions, so I dont.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont intend to uphold this complaint or make any award against 
Landmark mortgages Limited. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman