DRN-3400419
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a claim where it 
determined Mrs S was at fault, under her motor insurance policy. 
I will refer to Mrs S for ease of reading in my decision.
What happened
In June 2021 Mrs S was involved in a car accident. She says a third party drove into the side 
of her car after it had missed a slip road leading to the motorway. She says the driver didnt 
initially provide his details until she contacted the police. Mrs S says the third party then used 
a no win no fee lawyer to make an injury claim for the child passenger in the third partys 
car. 
Mrs S says UKI didnt represent her fairly and determined the accident was entirely her fault. 
She says she queried whether there was CCTV in an early phone call with UKI  but it didnt 
tell her she could obtain evidence herself to support her claim. She also says UKI delayed 
providing copies of information she had requested. 
Mrs S has provided photos of the vehicles involved in the accident, and of the roadway 
where the incident occurred. She doesnt think she was at fault and its unfair this incident 
will impact on her no claims discount. She would like UKI to change its decision on who was 
at fault. 
UKI says the road layout and damage to the vehicles indicates the third party was already in 
the lane leading to the motorway when Mrs S manoeuvred into this lane causing the 
collision. It says its policy terms allow it to decide how to settle the claim. It doesnt think a 
court would rule in favour of Mrs S if the case went down this route. This is why it accepted 
liability and recorded the claim with Mrs S being at fault. 
Mrs S didnt think this was fair and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint. He thought UKI was entitled to decide how best to handle the 
claim. He also thought UKI had considered the available evidence fairly before deciding to 
accept liability. He didnt think it had been shown that CCTV footage was available. Based 
on this he thought UKI had handled the claim fairly. 
Mrs S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her 
but I will explain why I think my decision if fair. 
Its not our role to decide who is at fault for an accident. This is something that is better 
handled by the courts. But I can consider whether UKI handled Mrs Ss claim fairly and 
reasonably taking into account the available information. 
I have read the policy terms to understand what it says about UKI accepting liability for the 
claim. The terms say:
3. Claims procedure  Our rights and your obligations
We are entitled to:
-take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your 
name, or in the name of any other person covered by this policy.
Essentially what this means is that UKI can decide how best to deal with this claim. In this 
case it thought the circumstances of the collision meant Mrs S would likely be considered at 
fault if the case went to court  so it accepted liability for the claim. 
I have looked at the evidence UKI considered. This includes both parties description of what 
happened, a video of the roundabout taken some time after the collision, along with Mrs Ss 
photos, and a sketch of how the collision occurred.
I understand that when the third party approached the roundabout leading to the slip road, 
he had passed a dedicated filter lane used to access the motorway. Mrs S says the third 
party shouldve used this lane to access the motorway. UKI acknowledged this in its 
investigation. But it says on the balance of probability the third party was proceeding 
correctly when the collision occurred.
I have thought about whether this was fair. From the road layout I agree that the third party 
appears to have missed the filter lane. But there is nothing preventing vehicles from 
accessing the motorway from the next roundabout, as the third party did here. UKI says cars 
already on the roundabout intending using the slip road should be in the left-hand lane. It 
says had Mrs S been in the left-hand lane there is no way the collision could have occurred 
in the way it did. 
UKI refers to the damage to Mrs Ss car being on the left side, primarily to the front door. The 
third-party vehicle damage was to the drivers side front wheel arch and front end. This is 
supported by the records provided. Mrs S recalls being hit by the third-party car about a cars 
length up the slip road. UKI says the lane is only wide enough for one vehicle. It thinks the 
third party must have been already in the lane as Mrs S exited the roundabout onto the 
motorway slip road.  
I have thought about whether UKIs view of how the collision occurred is reasonable based 
on this information. Having seen the road layout and where the impact occurred on the two 
vehicles, I think that its likely the third party was already in the lane to the left of Mrs S when 
she manoeuvred onto the slip road. I agree with UKI that the correct lane for Mrs S to have 
been in when exiting the roundabout was the left-hand lane. Based on the evidence I think 
its unlikely that the damage described, occurring a cars length up the slip road, couldve 
been the third partys fault.
Mrs S says she wasnt told she could look for or provide CCTV footage to support her claim. 
My understanding is that she thought UKI was responsible for doing this. I understand Mrs 
Ss concerns. But it hasnt been shown that CCTV footage was available from the location of 
the collision. If UKI was made aware that footage was likely to be available, I think its 
reasonable to expect it to attempt to obtain and view it. But that isnt the case here. I understand Mrs S is frustrated that the third party has used a no win no fee lawyer in 
relation to a personal injury claim, and that she is being held responsible for the accident. Im 
sorry this has been upsetting for her, and I acknowledge her comments that she has never 
made a motor insurance claim having driven for around 40 years. But based on the evidence 
I think UKIs approach to handling her claim is fair. 
Mrs S also says shes unhappy with UKIs response to her information requests. I cant see 
that this was raised with UKI in her complaint. It didnt form part of UKIs response in July 
2021. UKI should of course respond to information requests following the relevant process 
and timeframes. And if Mrs S remains concerned, she should contact UKI to discuss this.
In summary, having considered all of this I dont think UKI treated Mrs S unfairly, when 
relying on its policy terms and accepting liability for this claim. Im sorry she is upset that she 
is considered at fault for the collision. But I cant reasonably ask UKI to do anything more to 
resolve her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman