DRN-3443514
The complaint
Miss B complains about the way NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid managed her account and for 
providing her with misleading information.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for these 
reasons:
Its not disputed Miss Bs account was in arrears, and a payment plan was put in 
place at the end of April 2021. Ive seen the letter NewDay sent to Miss B confirming 
the payment plan had been set up, and this said they would review your account 
within the next 12 months either at a time we have arranged when setting the plan, or 
at the end of the 12 months. If you fail to make your monthly payment by the date 
requested, we will review your account immediately and may cancel the 
arrangement. And under the section What if I dont continue to pay?, the letter 
explained a debt collection agency may be asked to collect the amount Miss B owed.
Given the contents of the April 2021 letter, I dont consider it was unreasonable for 
Miss B to have been of the understanding that her account would be reviewed in 
12 months time if she kept up to date with the repayment plan. But if she didnt, her 
account might be passed to a debt collection agency. Ive not seen any evidence that 
shows Miss B missed any payments under the repayment plan (or that it was agreed 
with her that a review would take place in July/August), so I can understand why she 
was confused and unhappy when she received NewDays letter in August 2021 
saying her account was being defaulted. Ive taken on board NewDays explanation 
for why Miss Bs account was defaulted. However, I cannot agree the likelihood of 
this happening, and when, was sufficiently or clearly explained to Miss B.
Ive also not seen evidence that NewDay explicitly told Miss B her account was being 
sold to a debt collection agency before that happened at the end of September 2021. 
Failing to make Miss B aware of this in advance, meant she didnt have the 
opportunity to be aware of the fact shed no longer have access to her online 
account. This resulted in her only realising this was the case when she attempted to 
make an online payment in early October 2021. For clarity, I dont consider NewDay 
acted unfairly by selling Miss Bs account, and what that meant for her online access; 
as I agree this is something theyre able to do within the terms of her account. But the 
lack of clear communication about this caused confusion and inconvenience for 
Miss B.
Im aware NewDay had agreed to remove the default from Miss Bs credit file 
following a previous final decision from our Service. So, it was somewhat 
disappointing to see one of their advisers incorrectly told Miss B it wouldnt be 
removed. Again, this would have caused Miss B some frustration. But I do consider 
the impact of NewDays other mistakes detailed above would have had a greater 
impact given Miss B had some reassurance regarding the default because she had a 
legally binding final decision from this Service on that point.
Putting things right
For the reasons above, I dont think NewDay were sufficiently clear in explaining 
what would happen to Miss Bs account, and when. This breakdown of 
communication caused confusion for Miss B, which in turn resulted in her being 
inconvenienced when trying to understand what had happened and why.
NewDay ought to have been aware Miss B was very engaged in the way her account 
was being managed. Its this level of engagement that meant Miss B suffered a 
greater impact than another consumer may have done had their account been 
managed the same way. Because of this, I consider NewDay should pay Miss B 
£150 in recognition of the impact their mistakes had on her.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Miss Bs complaint about NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid.
To put things right, NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid should pay Miss B £150 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience she experienced because of their mistakes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman