DRN-3682400
The complaint
Mr B complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) has refused to refund 
payments he made to what he believed were legitimate investment trading companies.  
These payments were made using Mr Bs M&S Mastercard credit card.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In January and February 2016, Mr B says he made several payments to what he thought 
was his trading accounts with 72 Option and a company I will refer to as Company U in this 
decision.  At the time, Mr B says he believed that these companies were legitimate 
investment trading companies.  However, he now argues these companies were scammers 
and that he has lost his money because of their actions.
Mr B asked M&S to recover his money.  As this did not happen, Mr B raised a complaint 
which he also referred to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Mr B did not 
agree with the investigators findings, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
On 26 July 2022, I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint.  For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with conclusions reached by the investigator, but for slightly 
different reasons which I set out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Company U
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as binary options or another form of 
investment is in fact a scam.  Some cases simply involve high-risk investments which 
resulted in disappointing returns or losses. 
Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted these products using sales 
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading.  However, whilst customers who 
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making 
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a 
gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud 
Act 2006). 
In simpler terms, some merchants may have used sales and promotional methods that could 
be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses they have incurred  but this does 
not always amount to fraud.
When considering this for Mr Bs case, I have paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad.  I 
have searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions  the international body that brings together the world's securities regulators.  
And the Financial Conduct Authority (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, 
which is in place to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as 
potentially being fraudulent.  
Upon checking both, it is my understanding that Company U have no adverse information 
reported about them.  Indeed, my own research has not resulted in any compelling 
information to show they were fraudulent. 
I must therefore take into account that there is strong evidence here  particularly because 
there are no regulator warnings that were published at the material time  that Company U 
had not been identified as a fraudulent company when Mr Bs payments were made. 
I do not shy away from the fact that there are some negative reviews about Company U 
online.  However, whilst I acknowledge this could be seen as circumstantial evidence that 
helps paints an overall picture of Company U  this is not in itself sufficient evidence of 
fraud. 
I must follow the evidence and, essentially, I have no credible evidence to persuade me with 
any degree of certainty that Company U was operating a scam.  So, taking everything into 
consideration, I am not persuaded that Company U was in fact a fraudulent company. 
Finally, some banks may now choose not to allow transactions such as those Mr B made, 
because of the risks involved.  But the fact remains that this was not an illegal activity, and 
many customers now demand faster payments out of their account  which the regulations 
are designed to facilitate.
As explained previously, the banks duty is to guard against the risk of fraud and scams; it is 
not to give investment advice or protect consumers from bad bargains.  Ultimately, Mr B paid 
a legitimate merchant.  To that end, I cannot safely conclude that the bank acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by not intervening to ask questions about the transaction before it was let go. 
72 Option
I have considered whether Mr Bs payments to 72 Option attracted any section 75 rights 
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  Having done so, I am not satisfied they would have.  I 
say this because one of the requirements for a section 75 claim is that there needs to be an 
actionable breach of contract and/or misrepresentation.  Based on the evidence before me, 
in particular Mr Bs submissions, I am unable to safely say I have been able to identify these 
actions.  Further, I am not satisfied that Mr Bs payments to 72 Option were so unusual in 
nature that M&S ought to have flagged them and intervened  particularly given the pattern 
and the amounts of the payments involved.Chargeback
For completeness, I have considered whether Mr B had any chargeback rights regarding his 
payments to Company U and 72 Option.  In doing so, I am not persuaded he did.  I say this 
because of the nature of Mr Bs dispute and the evidence available.  If a chargeback had 
been raised, I am not persuaded it would have had any reasonable prospect of success 
under Mastercards chargeback scheme.
Responses to my provisional decision
M&S responded to say it had nothing further to add regarding my provisional findings.  Mr B 
responded disagreeing with them.  My understanding of Mr Bs response is that he would 
like me to reconsider information he has already submitted to support his position.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Mr Bs response, my position remains the same in this matter.  Mr B has 
not provided anything new to persuade me to depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman