DRN-3151449
The complaint
Mr M complains about Trading 212 UK Limiteds decision to close his trading account after 
he complained to it about what he described as fraudulent activity on his account. He also 
complains that he wasnt allowed to transfer out his shares.   
What happened
In December 2020 Mr M identified some unauthorised payments made from his account and 
complained. In January 2021 Trading 212 refunded these payments to his card. But Trading 
212 also decided to give him notice that it would be closing his account. Mr M complained 
about this decision. He said it was unfair and had caused him losses. Trading 212 looked 
into his concerns but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that its terms allowed it 
to close accounts by giving written notice  and in the end it had actually given Mr M more 
time than the notice it was required to give. It didnt agree it should pay any compensation. 
Mr M remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she thought that Trading 212 closed Mr Ms account in line with the terms and 
conditions. And she saw that Trading 212 had initially given him 30 days notice, and then an 
additional 21 days. She concluded that this was an appropriate amount of time for Mr M to 
make alternative arrangements. 
The investigator also acknowledged Mr Ms dissatisfaction at some of his long-term holdings 
being liquidated as he was unable to transfer them in specie to another provider. However 
she concluded that Trading 212 was clear in the terms that Trading 212 will not facilitate the 
transfer of Investments to another firm. She thought that if this was something important for 
Mr M, he ought to have opened an account with a firm that offered such a service. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. He mentioned that he 
was still waiting for information from a subject access request around the decision to close 
his account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Im afraid I 
dont have much to add to what the investigator has already told Mr M. 
In relation to the account closure, I note this service has not received any further information 
from Mr M. Ive considered whether I need any further evidence about the decision to close 
Mr Ms account, and Im satisfied I dont. The terms and conditions which governed Mr Ms 
account specifically allowed Trading 212 or Mr M to end the agreement and close the 
account with written notice. This is what it did. So in principle, Im not persuaded Trading 212 
has done anything wrong when deciding that it would close Mr Ms account. 
The next question I need to consider is whether the way it closed Mr Ms account was fair 
and reasonable. Ive seen the email that Trading 212 sent to Mr M, and it explained the term 
it was invoking in order to close his account, and the amount of notice it was giving him  30 
days. Ive taken into account what Mr M has said, but I dont agree that Trading 212 has 
acted unfairly here. Im satisfied that a month wouldve been sufficient time for Mr M to 
choose when to sell any existing shares and/or to open an account with another broker in 
order to sell and immediately buy the shares he wanted to keep with that broker.  
In addition, I can see that Trading 212 didnt actually close Mr Ms account after 30 days  it 
gave him an additional 21 days. So Im satisfied that Mr M had ample notice, and almost two 
months, to manage his shares in such a way as to mitigate any impact. As a result, Im 
satisfied he wasnt treated unfairly and Trading 212 is not responsible for any losses he 
incurred. 
In terms of transferring out his shares in-specie, Im afraid that here too, I dont have much to 
add to what the investigator told him. I can see the terms specifically say that:
Trading 212 will not facilitate the transfer of Investments to another firm. The investments 
held in your account will need to be liquidated and cash can be transferred to another firm.
In my view this term is very clear. When Mr M opened his account, he ought to have been 
aware that this term applied and that he would not be able to transfer any investments in 
specie. The fact that he proceeded to open his account regardless means that he accepted 
this term. Im therefore satisfied that Trading 212 hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
denying Mr M the opportunity to transfer out his shares in specie. 
For these reasons Im satisfied Trading 212 hasnt treated Mr M unfairly, and theres nothing 
further for it to do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman