DRN-3013275
The complaint
Mr G complains about the number of notifications he was receiving through the Tickr 
Limiteds mobile application (App).
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my provisional decision issued on 
23 August 2021, so I wont repeat this again here.
Both parties have replied to my provisional decision. Tickr agreed with my findings adding 
that its motivation for disabling the notifications was that Mr G had said it was adversely 
affecting him. Mr G disagreed with my provisional decision. He was happy with the 
conclusion reached by the investigator and didnt agree about this changing. And he didnt 
think the ombudsman had understood the situation. 
So the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above, both parties have provided responses but neither party has provided any 
further evidence that changes my mind. So, for the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision, Im not upholding the complaint. The relevant extract from my provisional decision 
that now forms part of my final decision, is as follows:
Mr G has raised several complaint points both before and after referring his complaint to 
our service. He should be aware that I will only be responding to the complaints Tickr has 
had an opportunity to respond to. I also think its important to make clear that we are an 
informal dispute resolution service. I accept Mr G may want answers to every question hes 
asked but I am not required to provide answers to everything. My decision will concentrate 
on the main points Mr G has raised.
I dont think Tickr did anything wrong by sending Mr G notifications. This is something he 
consented to when he set up the account. Mr G also had the option to turn off Tickrs 
notifications at any point. I appreciate he was concerned he may miss out on something 
important, but it was for him as the customer to monitor his account which he could do by 
checking his online account and/ or Tickrs website for updates. Its for Tickr, within the 
legitimate exercise of its commercial decision, to decide how many notifications it sends to 
its customers.
I can see from the outset that Mr G wanted the business to acknowledge the distress and 
inconvenience the notifications were causing him. But I think its likely if these were 
causing him distress and inconvenience, he wouldve taken action to change his 
preferences. I know Mr G was unhappy when Tickr switched off his notifications for him but 
under the circumstances, I dont think it acted unreasonably here. If Mr G wanted to opt 
back into the App notifications, he had the choice to do so.
I consider it was within the terms and conditions for Tickr to terminate the relationship with 
Mr G where it says: "We may amend, suspend and/or terminate any or all Services at any 
time for any valid reason. Tickr said the reason was because of a breakdown of 
confidence and trust between the parties. So, I think this falls within any valid reason. 
Tickr also served Mr G with 30 days notice. If hed any concerns about having to liquidate 
his investments, he could have asked Tickr to transfer his investments in-specie which it 
offered to do. All in all, I cant fairly say Tickr has done anything wrong regarding the 
termination of his account.
Mr G is unhappy that someone at Tickr looked at his social media profile. But the social 
media profile Mr G is referring to is on a publicly accessible platform, which anyone can 
access at any time. And as this is a publicly accessible social media platform, I cant fairly 
say Tickr has done anything wrong here.
I understand that Tickr hasnt provided a substantive response since the investigator 
issued her view. Mr G wants this considered as part of an award for distress and 
inconvenience. But Im satisfied that Tickr has provided full and substantial information to 
this service including to the points Mr G raised after the complaint was brought to our 
service. I wont be asking it to do anything more.
In terms of Tickrs response to my provisional decision, Ive taken on board the reasons why 
it switched off Mr Gs notifications. As I said above, I think it was fair and reasonable for it to 
take this action under the circumstances. And Ive taken into account Mr Gs further 
comments and understand hes unhappy that Ive reached a different conclusion from that of 
the investigator. But my role is to make a decision independent of the investigator. And 
based on the evidence Ive seen, on balance, I think Tickr acted fairly and reasonably in this 
case. Ive explained the reasons for this in my provisional decision which both parties have 
now responded to.
For all the reasons Ive set out above, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman