DRN-1736752
The complaint
Mr S complaint concerns the recommendation of two Junior ISAs by St. James's Place 
Wealth Management Plc (SJP). Hes unhappy to have discovered that money invested in 
the ISAs cannot be withdrawn until his children reach age 18.
What happened
Mr S was recommended the ISAs in March 2017. He made several contributions over 
2017/18, totalling around £13,000 for each. In 2019 he contacted his SJP adviser as he 
wanted to make a withdrawal from the ISAs. But despite the adviser initially indicating that 
this might be possible, it was eventually confirmed to him that the money would have to 
remain invested until the children turned 18, in accordance with HMRC rules. 
Mr S complained to SJP, bit it didnt uphold the complaint. It felt that it had been made clear 
to Mr S that money invested in the Junior ISAs couldnt be accessed in the short term, with 
several references to the restriction being made in the recommendation letter. 
Mr S didnt accept this as he felt hed made it clear to the adviser that he wanted to invest for 
a shorter time frame. He referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator reached 
the same conclusion as SJP. He noted that the documentation had explained the way the 
ISAs operated and that if the information hadnt matched with what Mr S had wanted, he 
wouldve had an opportunity to question it and cancel if necessary. 
The investigator also considered some text messages sent between Mr S and the adviser, 
which he felt showed that Mr S did strongly believe that hed wanted a shorter-term 
investment. But the investigator didnt think they were sufficient to support a finding that the 
adviser had acted incorrectly.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
I accept that there couldve been a misunderstanding about what Mr S wanted and his 
intentions for the money. I note that hes referred to wanting to purchase a buy-to-let 
property for his children with the invested money  hence the attempted withdrawal in 2019. 
So, it couldve been that there was confusion between this objective and a desire to 
purchase a property for the children when they were older, which was documented in the 
recommendation letter. 
But the recommendation letter gave no indication that the ISAs were suitable for short-term 
investment, or that any sort of shorter-term objective was discussed. For instance, the letter 
included comments such as, You would expect these monies to be invested for at least 12 
years and You are aware that these investments are deemed as medium-term 
commitments, ie 12 years plus and you do not foresee needing access. 
Both comments were consistent with the ages of Mr S children at the time of the advice  7 
years and 4 years  so an indicative 12-year term for the investments would appear 
reasonable in the light of the restriction on access until age 18. Further, in a section setting 
out the ISA regulations the letter said, Once invested no withdrawals/distributions are 
permitted until the child reaches 18.
I note Mr S has acknowledged that he didnt read the recommendation letter, on the basis 
that hed made his intentions clear to the adviser and had no reason to think they wouldnt 
be correctly acted upon and a suitable recommendation made.
While I understand Mr S point, I think its reasonable to expect him to have checked the 
letter before proceeding. Clearly, if hed done so, the mismatch between what hed wanted 
and what hed actually been recommended wouldve been spotted and changes couldve 
been made.
In respect of the messages between Mr S and the adviser when the issue was discovered, I 
acknowledge that it seems slightly odd that the adviser seemed to suggest there might be a 
way in which the money could be accessed early from the Junior ISAs. 
As a professional adviser, he shouldve been aware that this wouldnt be possible. But it may 
be that the suggestion was simply a misplaced but good faith attempt to help Mr S, 
conscious that hed had problems earlier when the ISAs were opened. But either way, I dont 
think it shows that the adviser acted incorrectly at the outset when recommending the ISAs.
In summary, Im unable to determine why the recommendation made and documented by 
the adviser conflicted so significantly with what Mr S says was required and discussed. On 
the face of what was documented, the recommendation was a suitable option for investing 
on the childrens behalf. If the adviser did understand that Mr S had a shorter-term objective 
but mistakenly thought that the ISAs could be accessed early, so were suitable for the 
shorter-term, then I see no reason why he wouldnt have documented the shorter-term 
objectives. 
An alternative possibility is that, for whatever reason, he actively recommended something 
that he knew was unsuitable. But if that was the case, he wouldve been aware that even a 
cursory glance at the recommendation letter would have revealed this and prompted a 
complaint.
In all the circumstances, while I recognise that Mr S will be very disappointed, I dont think 
theres sufficient evidence to support a finding that SJP made a mistake in recommending 
the Junior ISAs.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman