DRN-4293023
The complaint
Mr O complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) have not refunded payments it should 
have.
What happened
On 2 April Mr O made a £20 payment to a merchant and 5 further payments totalling £50 to 
a second merchant from his Starling account.
Although Starling accepted the payments, they werent debited from Mr Os account until 15 
April (£20) and 22 April (£50). So when Mr O checked his account he didnt see the balance 
he was expecting and also received a notification that his balance had dipped below £0.00. 
Mr O complained to Starling about this.
Starling accepted it was an error on its part in that it hadnt collected the payments in a 
timely manner from Mr Os account which made it difficult for him to manage his account and 
ensure he held sufficient funds to meet these payments. The delay in collecting the 
payments caused a negative balance on Mr Os account. 
To put things right Starling reversed some transactions so Mr Os account was no longer in a 
negative balance and confirmed that it would not attempt to collect the transactions again 
and that he hadnt incurred any interest charges and that his credit file hadnt been impacted 
by this issue.
Starling compensated Mr O £20 and then £30 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr O was dissatisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Os concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Starling had taken action so that Mr O wasnt negatively impacted by the delayed payments 
to merchants he had made and thought the £50 compensation was fair for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr O disagreed, he was expecting to see a refund of £70 on his statements and has asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr O has experienced and see if Starling has done 
anything wrong or treated them unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr O 
back in the position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr O is unhappy that payments he made to a merchant on 2 April didnt debit his account 
until 15 and 22 April. Starling accepted that the delay in collecting the payment was an error 
on its behalf and to put things right agreed to reverse any transactions that caused a 
negative balance and paid Mr O £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Mr O is dis-satisfied with this as he was under the impression the £70 worth of transactions 
would be reversed. But I dont agree. Although I accept the delay in collecting these 
payments has caused Mr O some inconvenience in that he thought he had more money than 
he did, I dont think he has financially lost out. Mr O isnt disputing he wished to make the 
transactions in question. So just because they were taken later than expected I dont see 
why he should be refunded for them.
However, if a delay in debiting Mr Os account made it more difficult for him to manage his 
money and resulting in Mr Os account becoming overdrawn  I think it would be fair for 
Starling to reverse those transactions  as it has done here.
I understand that Mr O hasnt been able to see the reversal on his bank statements, but my 
understanding is that is because Starling never debited this money from his account there is 
nothing to show on the statements. So Im satisfied that Starling has done enough to put 
things right for Mr O for the delay in collecting money from Mr Os account for the 
transactions he wished to make and that Mr O hasnt lost out financially as a result.
I also think the £50 Starling has paid Mr O for the error to be fair. Sometimes things dont go 
as smoothy as they should and mistakes happen. And in this case I dont think the detriment 
Mr O has suffered warrants further compensation.   
So overall and having considered everything I think Starling has done enough to put things 
right for Mr O and Im not going to ask it to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided that what Starling Bank Limited has done to 
settle Mr Os complaint is fair and Im not going to ask it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman