DRN-4365367
The complaint
Ms P complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled her 
claim on her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms P had a home insurance policy that was underwritten by RSA. In July 2021 she made a 
claim after she discovered a leak from her first-floor bathroom. RSA accepted the claim and 
commenced drying the property. However during this time, a second leak in the downstairs 
toilet was discovered. RSA also accepted the claim for this leak and carried our further 
drying. 
It took some time for the claim to progress and for a final repair schedule and cash 
settlement to be finalised. And during this time Ms P was living in the property with her two 
children and limited bathroom facilities. Further, when addressing the second claim RSAs 
contractors removed the toilet but failed to cap it off, which led to a bad smell throughout the 
property. Ms P had been unhappy with the service throughout the claim and made a 
complaint to RSA.
RSA upheld the complaint. It accepted it had caused some avoidable delays and offered 
£400 to apologise for these. 
Ms P wasnt happy with this. She said shed been living in difficult conditions and RSA hadnt 
offered the option of alternative accommodation which would have made things easier for 
her and her family. She therefore thought further compensation was due. She brought her 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. They 
thought while RSA had compensated for the delays Ms P had experienced, RSA hadnt 
considered the impact the matter had had on Ms P. They thought RSA should pay an 
additional £250 compensation to apologise for this. 
RSA accepted our investigators outcome, however Ms P didnt. She asked for her complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, its my role to first identify whether the business in question 
got something wrong. And where I find it has, decide what it should do to put things right for 
its customer. 
There is a certain amount of distress and inconvenience that is caused by having the need 
to claim. There will likely be a number of different companies involved and workmen 
attending a property, with certain areas unusable at times. When determining whether 
compensation is due, I need to consider if the business caused any additional distress and 
inconvenience above that of a usual claim through its actions or those of its agents. 
Here, I think RSA could have done more to ensure a smooth claim journey for Ms P and 
considering the impact this has had on her, I agree with our investigator that it should pay an 
additional £250.  Ive summarised the reasons for this award:
From looking at the correspondence between Ms P and RSA, I think RSA could have 
addressed issues more quickly than it did, and if it had the claim wouldnt have taken as 
long to resolve. For example while the first claim was made in July 2021, it wasnt until 
late October that the works required were agreed. This meant the first floor bathroom 
wasnt reinstated until November, four months after it was reported. This should have 
been resolved more quickly and the delay meant Ms P had to live in poor conditions for 
longer, which would have caused additional distress and inconvenience. 
Ms P had to repeatedly chase RSA for updates on the progress of the claim, and while 
her chasers were responded to promptly, RSA werent proactive outside of these. There 
were also appointments that were arranged and not attended as planned by RSAs 
contractor and a lack of clarity about who was attending when and what was happening 
with the claim. This added to the distress of the claim for Ms P as she didnt know what 
to expect or what timeframe the work would be able to start within. And it would have 
been inconvenient for her to have to contact RSA to get updates. 
While some of the emails from RSA expressed sympathy for Ms Ps situation, they 
sometimes sought to apportion blame elsewhere, rather than taking responsibility for 
the matters at hand. While I appreciate there were a number of contractors involved in 
the claim, the agents of RSA are ultimately its responsibility for it manage. And as Ms P 
was just looking for an answer about the progress of the claim, this would have caused 
additional distress.
There was a delay to RSA agreeing the amount for the cash settlement, which led to 
Ms P instructing the works to begin before the settlement was agreed and paid. This 
would have been inconvenient for Ms P and distressing as it was unclear as to whether 
the full amount would be covered. 
RSAs contractors removed the downstairs toilet following the second leak, but they 
failed to cap it off, which caused a bad smell throughout the property. Ms P was already 
living in difficult conditions, as she had limited bathroom facilities, and this would have 
made the situation worse and more distressing. This could have been avoided if RSAs 
contractors had followed the right process initially. 
Ms P has said that RSA should have offered alternative accommodation during the 
claim. Her policy provides: The cost of alternative accommodation for your family if the 
home is uninhabitable as a result of damage to the buildings. While Ms Ps home did 
have limited bathroom facilities for a period, she did have access to a working toilet 
throughout the claim. And therefore the property wouldnt be considered uninhabitable. 
However RSA offered Ms P a total of £2,380 in disturbance allowance for the time she 
was disrupted by the claim. This is what this service would expect it to do in lieu of 
alternative accommodation, where a home isnt uninhabitable but presents a difficult 
living environment. So this is what I would have directed if it hadnt and I therefore wont 
ask it to do any more in this regard. 
Based on this, I think RSA should pay an additional £250 compensation to Ms P, to make a 
total of £650. Ms P has expressed that she doesnt think this is enough to make up for the 
distress RSA and its agents have caused. And I in no way wish to diminish the impact the matter has had on her  I can see it has been a very distressing period. However based on 
the length of the delays and the impact involved, this is in line with similar complaints of this 
nature this service has dealt with. So I think this is a fair amount to apologise for the distress 
and inconvenience its caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms Ps complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to pay her an additional £250 compensation, to make a total of £650 to 
resolve this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman