DRN-4212789
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In May 2019 Mrs B applied for a credit card. Tesco approved the application and gave Mrs B 
a card with an initial credit limit of £3800.
Mrs B complained that Tesco had lent to her irresponsibly.
Tesco didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mrs B.
Mrs B remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that the checks carried out by Tesco 
wouldve shown that Mrs B was left with such a low level of disposable income that she 
would be unable to sustainably repay the credit.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator. She thought she should receive compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. She wanted the account balance write off and any adverse 
information removed from her credit file.
Tesco didnt reply to the investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mrs Bs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, Tesco needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that Mrs B could sustainably repay what was being lent to her.
Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to carry out. But lenders are required to have 
regard to things like the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly 
repayment and the consumers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable 
and proportionate.
Mrs B declared annual income of £12,000 and net income of £952 per month in her 
application. She didnt declare any mortgage or rent payments, but Tesco estimated these at 
£286 per month. Tesco also estimated expenses at £286 per month and added £48 per 
month existing consumer credit commitments. Tesco caalcaulted that this would leave Mrs B 
with monthly disposable income of around £247 and decided that the repayments on the 
credit card were sustainable for Mrs B.
Tesco completed a credit check and found that Mrs B had £1607 unsecured debt.
Mrs B has queried the credit check because she says she had an existing loan from Tesco 
which she was repaying at £323 per month.
This service asked Tesco to look into why the loan wasnt showing on the credit checks at 
the time Mrs B applied for the credit card.
Tesco confirmed that the loan was in place but couldnt explain why it hadnt been factored 
into the affordability calculations.
Ive thought about whether the lending decision was fair, taking account of the fact that the 
loan shouldve been factored into the affordability calculations. Having done so, I dont think 
Mrs B was likely to sustainably repay the credit, because she wouldve been repaying 
around £527 per month towards her debts (including the credit card based on repayments of 
5% of the balance). This amounts to around 55% of Mrs Bs monthly income. We know from 
experience that customers who use more than 25% of income to repay debt are likely to 
experience difficulties repaying debt in the future.
Even making adjustments to the affordability calculations to reflect Mrs Bs actual housing 
costs (which were lower than the figure estimated by Tesco), this leaves Mrs B with only £52 
per month disposable income. This isnt sufficient because it leaves no headroom for 
unexpected expenses.
For these reasons I dont think the checks carried out by Tesco were reasonable and 
proportionate because it didnt take account of the loan. And I dont think the lending 
decision as fair because the information showed that the credit wasnt affordable for Mrs B.
Im therefore upholding the complaint.
Putting things right
Mrs B has had the benefit of the money shes spent on the card so I dont think its fair to ask 
Tesco to write off the balance. However, I think interest and charges should be refunded.
Tesco must:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges
If the rework results in a credit balance, this must be refunded to Mrs B together with 8% 
simple interest. Tesco should also remove all adverse information from Mrs Bs credit file 
relating to this account.
If after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Tesco must arrange an affordable 
payment plan with Mrs B. Once Mrs B has cleared the balance, Tesco should also remove 
all adverse information from Mrs Bs credit file relating to this account.
HMRC require Tesco to deduct tax from any award of interest. Tesco must give Mrs B a 
certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for this.
Mrs B has asked me to consider further compensation. This isnt in line with our approach to 
complaints of this type. I understand that Mrs B feels that Tesco shouldve acknowledged the 
loan sooner and upheld her complaint. However, even if Tesco had done that, Im not 
persuaded that the complaint wouldnt have been brought to this service because of the 
other aspects of the complaint being pursued by Mrs B (the balance write off).My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC must take the 
steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman