DRN-1708518
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Zurich Assurance Ltd has stopped paying the monthly benefit 
following a successful claim on her group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M became absent from work in early 2017. She had the benefit of an income protection 
policy (the policy) through her employer, which can pay out a portion of her income after 
shes been off work for 26 weeks (the deferred period). 
A claim was made on the policy which was accepted by Zurich and it started to pay the 
monthly benefit under the policy at the end of the deferred period. Zurich continued to pay 
the monthly benefit until March 2019. At that point it concluded that Mrs M was no longer 
incapacitated as defined by the policy, and it didnt think any illness prevented her from 
returning to work.
Mrs M appealed that decision, which Zurich considered. In May 2019, it confirmed that her 
appeal hadnt been successful, and it maintained its decision to stop paying the monthly 
benefit under the policy. 
Unhappy, Mrs M complained to our Service. In light of the medical evidence, our investigator 
didnt think Zurich had been able to show that it fairly and reasonably stopped paying the 
monthly benefit when it did. So, he upheld Mrs Ms complaint and recommended that Zurich 
pay the backdated monthly payments together with interest and reinstate the claim. 
Zurich disagrees. Mrs Ms complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything 
afresh and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zurich has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a 
claim unreasonably. When making a claim its for Mrs M to demonstrate that she meets the 
definition of incapacity. Zurich says Mrs M no longer met that definition. So, when 
terminating a claim for this reason it is for Zurich to show, based on medical evidence, that 
the policyholder no longer meets the definition of incapacity. 
Under the policy incapacity is defined as an illness or injury that causes the member to be 
unable to work; that is the member cant perform the material and substantial duties of their 
employment and they are not doing any other paid work.
Im not a medical expert so Ive relied on the medical evidence available to me when 
considering whether Zurich acted fairly and reasonably by stopping the monthly payments 
under the policy. Having done so, Im not persuaded it has. 
All in all, Im persuaded that Zurichs decision to stop paying the monthly benefit when it did 
wasnt fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
Mrs M was initially off work because she required treatment for breast cancer. She 
underwent a mastectomy and reconstruction surgery. She subsequently developed an 
infection. Although, her cancer treatment was successful, the medical evidence supports that 
she developed severe anxiety. It is for these reasons that she says she was unable to work. 
Although she was signed off work by her GP with cancer, Mrs M had been cancer free and 
not receiving treatment for cancer for a considerable time before Zurich stopped making 
monthly payments. So, Im satisfied that the continuing reference to cancer in the sickness 
certificates extended to the anxiety relating to the cancer diagnosis, associated trauma of the 
treatment and fear of the cancer returning. 
In June 2018, so around nine months after the end of the deferred period, Mrs M agreed to 
attend an appointment with an independent medical expert; a consultant clinical psychologist 
(the IME). The report reflects that based on a recognised scale, Mrs M was living with 
clinical / severe anxiety. The IME concludes, in response to specific questions asked:
Mrs M isnt presenting with a typical mental health problem, rather she is 
experiencing a protracted reaction to a very frightening and anxiety-provoking ill-
health experience. She feels generalised health anxiety and now experiences a low 
tolerance for stress to the point of being somewhat phobic;
She has been receiving appropriate treatment i.e. medication for anxiety as well as 
psychological treatment and there really isnt anything else she can do except 
continuing to take care of herself and gradually re-expose herself to the world of 
work;
For the time being her capacity to tolerate stress and rely less on safety behaviours 
is limited;
She was some distance from being able to engage with and plan for a return to work 
with an actual date in mind. She is coming across as having been rendered quite 
vulnerable and fragile but if pressed, a gradual programme of re-exposure to the 
key concepts of her job could be devised;
Although she wasnt happy with the way her employer has been handling her not 
uncomplicated situation it wasnt thought that she was delaying a return to work 
because of how she has been treated by her employer.
Ive also seen a report from Mrs Ms GP addressed to Zurich dated March 2019 (Mrs Ms 
GP report) - shortly before the decision was taken to stop paying the monthly benefit. 
Mrs Ms GP report reflects that Mrs M reported the main reasons for her being unable to 
work was low mood and feeling tired all the time. Mrs Ms GP concludes that theyre unable 
to comment on Mrs Ms ability to return to work and that Zurich should request an 
occupational health doctors advice regarding this. 
Zurich didnt do that. Instead, it stopped making the monthly payment after receiving advice 
from its chief medical officer (the CMO) who had a background of being a GP.
However, Mrs M did attend an appointment with an occupational health doctor on 2 May 
2019  who was also a GP - in May 2019, so around five weeks after the date on which the 
decision was taken to stop making the monthly payment. The report confirms that theyd also 
read two psychology reports for Mrs M and the IMEs report dated June 2018. The 
occupational health report reflects:depression and anxiety questionnaires were completed by Mrs M during the meeting 
and produced scores indicating a moderately severe depressive state, and a severe 
anxiety state;
In the occupational health doctors opinion, Mrs M wasnt fit for normal duties and 
wouldnt be so for at least another two months;
To assist with a return to work, Mrs M would benefit substantially from a review by a 
consultant psychiatrist and that theyd ask her GP to refer her to a particular 
consultant psychiatrist. 
Ive taken into account the comments of the CMO dated 14 May 2019 in response to 
Mrs Ms appeal. He accepts that Mrs Ms most recent screening scores for depression and 
anxiety remained high but he says there was no evidence that Mrs M had a formal thought 
disorder, psychosis or major mental health illness and he didnt agree that Mrs M should 
undergo a psychiatric assessment. In his view, a psychiatric independent medical expert 
would only serve to repeat the detail already available and the recommendation would 
remain the same - participation with cognitive behaviour therapy and gradual reintroduction 
to work. But Ive seen no medical evidence to support that  or to determine what a 
psychiatric consultant was likely to have concluded around that time. 
The CMO also says that, medically, Mrs M had made an acceptable recovery and there 
were no reasons why a planned return couldnt be accommodated in a graded fashion. He 
further says work is an essential element of the recovery process, even more so when 
avoidance behaviours have developed - as in Mrs Ms case - and making an attempt to 
return to work wouldnt present harm to Mrs M. He concludes its in Mrs Ms best interests to 
return to work whether she accepts this or not.
But it doesnt look like the CMO is a trained psychiatrist or psychologist and Ive placed more 
weight on whats said by the occupational health doctor whod met Mrs M and had discussed 
her medical background with her. And although the occupational health doctor met with 
Mrs M after the decision had been taken to decline the claim, it appears that theyd 
considered the relevant medical evidence before providing their advice including two 
psychological reports and the IMEs report dated June 2018.
The CMO also commented Mrs M had requested voluntary redundancy from her role and 
displays no motivation to making an attempt to return despite citing that she enjoyed her 
previous work. He says Mrs Ms declaration of seeking a different life path is integral to her 
claim and denotes a substantial barrier to efforts to affect a graded return. The CMO also 
seems critical of Mrs Ms apparent lack of motivation to confront her issues and election to 
stop work rather than making reasonable efforts to return. 
However, Im not persuaded that Mrs M requesting voluntary redundancy means that she 
wasnt incapacitated. In this particular case I dont think those issues are intrinsically linked. 
The overall medical evidence illustrates that her anxiety manifested itself in different ways 
including an anxiety about returning to work. With that in mind, its understandable that she 
would explore taking voluntary redundancy and its consistent with her seeking to avoid an 
event which is likely to exacerbate her anxiety further  such as returning to work. Thats not 
inconsistent with her being incapacitated.  
The CMO also sets out his concerns about why Mrs Ms GP says theyre unable to comment 
on her ability to return to work. He says theres no reason why the GP shouldnt be able to 
comment in general terms and there is no declaration that in any view they hold, that Mrs M 
is totally precluded from work. From this the CMO gleans the impression that the GP would 
not decline support for a return to work. However, thats an assumption. And one that I dont 
think is reasonable. Zurich didnt query with Mrs Ms GP why they felt they couldnt comment 
on Mrs Ms ability to return to work. And besides, Mrs Ms GP had been signing Mrs M off sick from work and Im not persuaded that their suggestion that advice is sought from an 
occupational health doctor to advise on Mrs Ms ability to return to work was unusual or 
could reasonably lead the CMO forming the impression that Mrs Ms GP wouldnt decline 
support for a return to work.
The CMO also says he supports the view of the IME in June 2018 that a return to work 
would be appropriate. But Im not persuaded thats a fair reflection of the overall conclusions 
of the IME report. The IME concluded, as of June 2018, Mrs M was some distance from 
being able to engage with and plan for a return to work with an actual date in mind. And 
although they did say if pressed a gradual programme of re-exposure to the key concepts 
of her job could be devised, that report was dated around nine months before the decision 
was taken to stop paying the monthly benefit so its not clear from a psychological 
perspective whether Mrs M was incapacitated in March 2019 when the decision was taken 
by Zurich to stop paying the claim. 
The CMO also says that Mrs M hadnt received any recent active care and her position 
had stagnated. The GP report reflects that Mrs M had been prescribed three different types 
of anti-depressants at various times between early 2018 and mid-2018 but Mrs M decided 
against continuing with them because of the side effects shed experienced and there was 
reference to her mood still being low and waking up feeling panicked. 
Further a psychology discharge report from late April 2018  so around the time shed been 
prescribed anti-depressants - reflects that her psychometric results showed she was 
experiencing high levels of anxiety. That supports that the anti-depressants werent 
necessarily assisting her manage her anxiety at that stage. 
Zurich has also said, under the policy, for the monthly benefit to be paid, the member must 
be under the regular supervision and treatment of a medical practitioner and must be taking 
reasonable steps to manage their condition or help their recovery. It also says during the 
second half of 2018 Mrs M wasnt under the regular supervision of her GP and wasnt 
receiving treatment from them. And she wasnt taking steps to mitigate her condition or help 
her recovery. 
However, Im not persuaded by what Zurich says. Mrs M was under the regular supervision 
of her GP in the sense that it was her GP who was signing her off work sick. And the GP 
report supports that the reason Mrs M decided to stop taking anti-depressants was due to 
the side effects.
Further Mrs M has told us that she was under the regular care of breast care nurse 
specialists and was referred to a charity that assists cancer sufferers (recovering and 
current) with dealing with recognised mental health issues associated with cancer. And in 
September 2018, she says she was selected for, and attended a four-day residential course 
run by the charity as she was identified as having this type of mental condition. Mrs M has 
been detailed in her account and I accept what she says about that. 
Zurich says it offered Mrs M rehabilitation support, but she didnt engage in this process. 
Mrs M says she had intended to engage but due to her level of anxiety and fears, she didnt 
feel ready at the time. Given the medical evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded by what she 
says about that. For example, the psychology discharge report from April 2018 reflects that  
in addition to her worrying excessively about the reoccurrence of her own illness and illness 
to family members close to her - therapy hadnt been able to fully address the trauma Mrs M 
had suffered due to the ongoing pressure she felt about returning to work in a specified 
timeframe, and that this had further exasperated her symptoms of anxiety. In summary, based on the totality of the medical evidence, Im not persuaded that Zurich has 
been able to demonstrate that Mrs M was no longer incapacitated under the terms of the 
policy at the time it took the decision to stop paying the monthly benefit. So, I dont think its 
acted fairly and reasonably by ceasing to make the monthly payments when it did. 
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which we notify Zurich that Mrs M has accepted this 
decision, it should: 
reinstate the claim and pay the backdated monthly payments to the policyholder. This 
should be calculated from the date the claim was terminated to the date Zurich 
makes payment; 
calculate 8% annual simple interest on the backdated payments from the date on 
which each backdated payment was due to be paid to the date payment is actually 
made, and pay that to Mrs M directly*
*If Zurich considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any 
interest paid, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one. That way she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I direct Zurich Assurance Ltd to put things right by doing what 
Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman