DRN-3071338
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) has treated him unfairly in relation to his 
mortgage account. Specifically, he says that BoS failed to offer him new interest rates, which 
could have helped him by lowering his mortgage payments when he was in financial 
difficulties. 
What happened
In 2008, Mr C took out a mortgage for around £315,000 (including fees) with BoS on an 
interest only basis, over a 20-year term. Interest was charged at a fixed rate of 5.79%, until 
2011. After this point the mortgage reverted to the Bank of Scotland Home Loan Rate (the 
standard variable rate  SVR).
Unfortunately, Mr C experienced financial difficulties from around 2011. He kept in contact 
with BoS at this time and worked through options such as payment arrangements. He says 
that it was only around 2013/ 2014 that he was able to consolidate the arrears. His mortgage 
account then remained on the SVR until June 2020. He says he asked Halifax for help, such 
as extending his term, reducing the balance or arranging a new rate but was told each time 
that there was nothing available for him. 
More recently, in June 2020, he has been able to secure a new interest rate on his 
mortgage. He says that had this been offered to him from 2011, it would have helped him in 
his financial difficulties by reducing his monthly payments and may have meant that he could 
make overpayments to the mortgage, which would reduce the capital owed at the end of the 
term. He also says this would have improved his credit profile. 
Mr C complained to BoS. It replied to say that it has charged the SVR on the mortgage since 
2011, in line with the terms and conditions of the account. It said it doesnt allow customers 
with arrears to take out new interest rate products, as early repayment charges (ERC) are 
attached to them which could result in additional costs for the borrower if the house is 
repossessed or sold. It also said that it was for Mr C to contact BoS in the periods when the 
account was not in arrears to request a rate. It said it allowed the product transfer in July 
2020 as, at the time of application, the account was no more than one months payment in 
arrears. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr C brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator first 
explained that this service is only be able to consider the complaint from 2014 onwards due 
to the relevant time rules that apply. This was agreed and she investigated the part of the 
complaint this service can consider
Ultimately, she didnt think that BoS had treated Mr C unfairly and so didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr C disagreed. He says that BoS should have a moral obligation to help him as 
best they can and feels let down that a new rate wasnt offered. The complaint has been 
passed to me to issue a decision. 
As outlined, Ill be considering the six-year period from July 2014 until July 2020 when Mr C 
made his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that things havent been easy for Mr C over the years and Im sorry to hear of the 
financial struggles he faced. With this in mind, Ive thought carefully about whether theres 
anything more I would have expected BoS to have fairly done to help him. 
The interest applied to the mortgage 
As set out, Im only able to consider the interest rate charged on the account since July 
2014. Over this period, Mr Cs mortgage has been on the BoS SVR which has fluctuated 
between around 4.55% and 5.2%.
Ive looked at the terms set out in Mr Cs mortgage offer which he agreed to when he took 
the mortgage out in 2008. The offer explained that once the fixed interest rate of 5.79% 
expired in 2011, the mortgage would revert to the SVR. Im satisfied Mr C has been charged 
interest on his mortgage in line with the original terms.
Should BoS have pro-actively offered Mr C a new rate?
Its not in dispute that Mr C didnt ask BoS for a new rate until June 2020, but hes 
questioned why this wasnt offered to him sooner.
I can appreciate the situation Mr C finds himself in and the arguments he makes. Ive 
thought carefully about the relevant regulation. There werent any rules that required 
mortgage lenders to pro-actively contact borrowers when cheaper interest rate deals were 
available for them to apply for. 
The rules do state that the lender must make available clear and comprehensible information 
about the types of interest rates available to borrowers. But having this information available 
on the lenders website is considered sufficient for the purposes of the rules. Ive seen 
copies of the annual mortgage statements sent to Mr C which outlined that his mortgage was 
on a variable rate and directed him to the banks website if he wished to make changes to the 
mortgage. And it was via the website that Mr C recently checked the different rates available 
and subsequently applied. From 2018, the annual statements became more detailed and 
outlined the differences between fixed and variable rates of interest. 
With the relevant regulation in mind, Im not persuaded that BoS should have done more 
here to make Mr C aware that different rates were available.
Should a fixed rate have been offered to support Mr C in his financial difficulties?
Mr C has described himself as a vulnerable consumer and says that whilst BoS might not 
have contacted all of its customers about the best rates available, it could have done more 
to help him. 
Ive considered the history of the account and can see from 2014 until 2018 a small amount 
of payments were missed and each time the account was brought up to date shortly after 
these. Mr C has said that he was employed at the time but that he was still under financial 
strain. 
But Mr C has explained that he lost his job around the beginning of 2018 and asked BoS for 
support at this time. There are regulatory requirements to treat customers experiencing financial difficulties fairly. I can see that payment arrangements were put in place to help him 
at this time, but Ive also thought carefully about whether, in the particular circumstances of 
this complaint, BoS could have done more to help him at this point  specifically by offering 
him a lower interest rate.  
Ive listened to the calls around the time. Mr C was previously on an arrangement to make 
the monthly payment plus payments towards the arrears balance. Hes said that his wife was 
in work and that they were managing their mortgage payments just about but due to 
commitments elsewhere the income and expenditure assessment showed that there was 
unfortunately a deficit as he was not in work at the time. BoS offered other concessions and 
referred him to debt support charities.
At no point was a reduction in the interest rate suggested. But considering Mr Cs wider 
financial circumstances  including his obligations with other creditors, and the fact that he 
was out of work at the time, I dont think this was unfair. 
I appreciate that Mr C has said he should have been offered a different rate of interest earlier 
and that this would have improved his overall financial position  and hes provided some 
calculations to show how much hes now saving on his current four-year fixed rate deal. Hes 
made a persuasive argument as to how this has helped him clear the arears on the 
mortgage and improve his finances elsewhere. Ive taken this into account. 
But Ive also thought carefully about the other implications of taking a fixed rate deal. Theres 
a risk the borrower will bring the mortgage to an end early  either through having to sell the 
property, or through repossession, to deal with the arrears. And if at that point the mortgage 
is on a fixed rate, this could trigger an early repayment charge (ERC) which would increase 
the amount to be paid back. Im aware that BoSs interest rate products came with an ERC 
(other than the SVR that Mr Cs mortgage was on). So even if he had been offered a new 
interest rate deal, it might not have necessarily been in Mr Cs best interests.
From the information available to me, I can see that in 2018 and 2019 Mr C explained that 
he was undertaking fixed term contract work but was then was out of work for periods of 
time. BoS couldnt be certain that Mr Cs situation would improve and whilst I understand his 
point that his monthly payment would have been lower, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
BoS to not to have offered to tie him into a fixed rate with a large fee to pay if he needed to 
exit the mortgage early. 
Considering everything, I dont think that BoS treated Mr C unfairly by not offering a fixed 
rate as a concession for his financial difficulties  and the other support offered is in line with 
what I would generally expect a lender to provide in the circumstances. 
Fixing the rate whilst the account is in arrears
BoS has explained that its lending criteria doesnt allow borrowers whose mortgages are in 
more than one-month of arrears to be able to take a new rate. Mr C has questioned why he 
was able to secure a rate recently when, at the time, there were arrears on the mortgage 
account.
I can see from the offer letter in June 2020 that there was a requirement for the arrears to be 
cleared before the new rate applied. The mortgage statement reflects that a payment was 
made in June to clear these and the new rate applied from July. And so, I dont think BoS 
contradicted its policy here. 
Overall, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr C, Im not satisfied that 
BoS has treated him unfairly under the scope of this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman