DRN-2924868
The complaint
Mrs C complains about delays when opening an Individual Savings Account (ISA) with
Invesco Fund Managers Limited and making an initial deposit.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into what happened and thought that Invesco should pay 
some redress to put things right. Invesco didnt agree with the redress so the complaint 
came to me for a decision.
After reviewing the complaint I came to the same overall outcome as our investigator; that 
some redress was due for what happened. However I thought a different form of redress 
was appropriate. I issued a provisional decision on 11 February 2022 which said:
Its clear to me how strongly Mrs C feels about what happened. I want to assure Mrs C that
Ive read and considered all of the information provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive
summarised the complaint which reflects the informal nature of our service.
Invesco have said that in order to fulfil their AML obligations in regards to the ISA they had to
confirm the source of the funds to be sure they belonged to Mrs C. Because they werent
sure of this, the cheque used for the deposit wasnt accepted.
It's not my place to say what policies and procedures Invesco should have. Its also not my
place to say what documents I think they should accept for their AML obligations in regards
to the source of the funds. But I do think the level of customer service provided here fell
short of what I would expect.
Mrs Cs husband contacted Invesco on her behalf to make the initial deposit. Invesco didnt
accept this over the telephone as the debit card being used to make the deposit wasnt in
her name.
Invesco said they could accept a cheque for the deposit if sent in alongside a bank
statement that matches the details provided, and if sent along with a letter. Mrs C did as
requested and sent in a cheque, a bank statement and a letter. Invesco rejected this saying
the cheque was in the name of a third party; which was Mrs Cs husband.
But Invesco seemed to ignore the letter which was sent in along with the cheque. This
explained that Mrs C held a joint bank account with her husband. Invesco asked Mrs C to
complete a different part of the ISA application form that is applicable when the deposit is
being gifted. This wasnt correct as the deposit wasnt being gifted. I think this shouldve
been clear from the phone contact with Mr C, and from the letter sent along with the cheque.
When looking into what happened Invesco again made reference to gifting the deposit,
which was again incorrect.
I think the problem here lies with the advice given by Invesco about what they could accept
as proof of the source of funds, and not whether they shouldve accepted the documents
provided. I think its clear that the documents provided were not acceptable to Invesco.
Invesco said they could accept a bank statement and a cheque  which is what Mrs C sent
in. I think what they shouldve said was that they would accept a cheque in the name of Mrs
C alongside a bank statement showing her full name. This detail, which was a requirement,
wouldve made the situation a lot clearer.
Had Invesco been clearer, as I think they shouldve been, the inconvenience couldve been
avoided. I say this as Mrs C didnt have a cheque book in her name. And also the bank
statement didnt contain her full name either. So neither of these wouldve been suitable for
Invescos requirements and Mrs C wouldve known this immediately if she had been told.
Then Mrs C wouldnt have been put to the trouble of sending in a cheque and a bank
statement which were never going to be suitable. And its also frustrating for Mrs C that the
letter she was asked to send in was seemingly ignored.
In the long run Mrs C obtained a debit card in her name and made the payment that way.
This took some time as it was a new debit card that had to be ordered from Mrs Cs bank,
and then sent out in the post.
If Invesco had told Mrs C more clearly about their requirements, as I think they should, it still
wouldve taken some time for the deposit to be made as a new debit card was required. So I
dont think itd be fair to ask Invesco to pay the redress Mrs C has requested because the
documentation provided was never going to be acceptable.
Invesco did cause some inconvenience for Mrs C as she sent in the cheque, statement and
letter which I dont think she shouldve had to do. This caused delays in Mrs C knowing that
she had to order a debit card in her own name to make the deposit. For being put to this
trouble I think Invesco should pay Mrs C £100 which I think is a fair payment for the
inconvenience caused.
Having considered everything that happened Im satisfied Mrs C was put to some
unnecessary inconvenience. To put this right I think Invesco should pay Mrs C £100.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further submissions they had before I issued my 
final decision.
Invesco replied saying the agreed to the £100 payment.
Mrs C replied disagreeing saying she felt the offer of redress made by our investigator 
should be paid rather than the £100 I suggested in my provisional decision.
The complaint has now been passed back to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find myself coming to the same conclusion I did in my provisional decision, 
and for the same reasons.
In reply to my provisional decision Mrs C sad she feels she was given the correct information 
by Invesco as the terms and conditions say they will accept a cheque drawn on a joint 
account. And I agree that is what the terms and conditions say. 
However in this situation Invesco had no way of confirming that the cheque provided was actually from a joint account to which Mrs C is a party. The cheque was in the name of 
Mrs Cs husband, and the statement doesnt show either her name or initials. Had the 
statement provided shown at least Mrs Cs initials then the situation might be different. But 
with no mention of Mrs C, either by name or initials, on either the cheque or the statement I 
think Invesco acted fairly and reasonably by not accepting them. 
As I explained in my provisional decision I think Invesco shouldve been clearer in saying 
what evidence they required. Had they done so Mrs C wouldnt have been put to the trouble 
of sending in a cheque, a letter, and a statement.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied a payment of £100 is a 
fair and reasonable way of resolving the complaint. 
Putting things right
Invesco Fund Managers Limited should pay Mrs C £100 to put things right for the 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Invesco Fund Managers Limited should pay Mrs C £100 to put things right for the 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman