DRN-2908719
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the repairs Haven Insurance Company Limited carried out on his car 
following a claim on his car insurance policy, and with its service in handling his claim. 
What happened
Following a claim on his car insurance, Mr B says Haven and/or its agents:
Didnt carry out the repairs properly. Mr B says there was an overspray on his 
dashboard and some tracking on his wheels wasnt done; 
Removed items from his car when it was in for repairs;
Didnt wear personal protective equipment (PPE) either when Mr B took the car in for 
repair or when he collected it; and
Delayed in updating him on his claim.
When Mr B first brought his complaint to us, Haven hadnt given him its answer on his 
complaint. When it did, it said:
The overspray was a pre-existing problem but, as a gesture of goodwill, this had 
been resolved when Mr B first took the car back to the garage to complain about it. 
It accepted that, although its engineers had approved specialised tracking for Mr Bs 
car, this wasnt done before it was returned to him. Haven apologised for this and 
said it would reimburse Mr B what it had cost him to get the tracking done by a third 
party.
Mr B had signed a disclaimer when he took his car in for repair to say hed removed 
all his belongings and tools from the car.
The garage Mr B went to said its staff wouldve been wearing PPE both when Mr B 
dropped his car off and when he collected it.
The investigator who looked at Mr Bs complaint thought Haven had done enough to settle 
Mr Bs complaint  including that Haven should reimburse Mr B the cost of the tracking. He 
also didnt think any delays by Haven in updating Mr B on his claim had materially delayed it 
or changed its outcome. 
Mr B has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
I understand Mr B may have other complaints with Haven and also with a credit hire 
company that was involved in his claim. But my decision here is only about the issues Ive 
set out above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold one part of Mr Bs complaint. 
Haven accepts it didnt carry out the tracking it had agreed to. I think its fair and reasonable 
Haven should reimburse Mr B for the tracking he got done by a third party.
But I dont uphold the other parts of Mr Bs complaint for the following reasons:
Although Haven says the overspray to Mr Bs dashboard was pre-existing, it has in 
any case already dealt with it. So I dont think Haven needs to do anything more on 
this.
Mr B signed a disclaimer to say hed removed his belongings and tools from the car. 
And he hasnt (understandably) given us any information to show a small amount of 
cash and some aftershave was taken from the car. In light of these things, Mr Bs 
testimony on its own isnt enough for me to say fairly and reasonably its likely Haven 
did anything wrong here.
Mr B says the garage staff werent wearing PPE, the garage says they were. Haven 
has given us information on what its garages Covid19 procedures were at the time. 
Its possible these procedures werent followed when Mr B was there. But the 
information I have to support this  essentially what Mr B says  isnt strong enough 
on its own, without anything to back it up, for me to think its likely Haven did anything 
wrong here.
In the early stages of his claim, Haven was still trying to find out if the third party 
accepted liability, and it contacted Mr B soon after it found out. So I dont think there 
were any unnecessary delays in its handling of Mr Bs claim.
Putting things right
Haven should put things right for Mr B as I set out below.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
I direct Haven Insurance Company Limited to reimburse Mr B the costs he has incurred in 
getting the tracking on his car carried out by a third party. Mr B must, however, show Haven 
a copy of the invoice from the third party for this work.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman