DRN-3874288
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service provided by Nationwide Building Society in relation to a 
disputed transaction.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr H disputed a transaction for around £20. A few days later Mr H called 
Nationwide after 5pm to discuss the disputed transaction claim. The advisor attempted to 
transfer Mr H through to the relevant team, not realising the helpline had closed at 5pm. 
Frustrated at being put through to a closed department, and unhappy the advisor didnt 
check the opening times prior to transferring, Mr H raised a complaint. He said his mental 
health had been affected by what had happened.
Mr H called back several times over the next couple days for an update on when he would 
receive the promised temporary credit to his account, for the disputed amount while 
Nationwide investigated his claim. He was initially told it would be credited the following day, 
but that didnt happen. Mr H also chased his complaint reference, as it hadnt been received 
 though he was expecting it by text. Mr H added the issue of the conflicting information 
about when hed receive the temporary credit to his complaint.
Nationwide responded to the complaint by apologising for the error in transferring after 5pm, 
and it also paid £10 compensation for the incorrect information regarding the timescales for 
paying the temporary credit. Mr H didnt feel the apology was enough to rectify the impact 
caused, and so referred the complaint about being transferred after the helpline had closed 
to our service for review. He told us the mistake had seriously affected him, and exacerbated 
his existing mental and physical health struggles.
An investigator here agreed there had been an error and acknowledged what Mr H had 
described as the impact of the mistake on him, but he thought Nationwides apology was 
sufficient in the circumstances. Mr H didnt accept the investigators view and asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision on the matter  so the complaint was passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint  and Ive explained why below. Firstly, I 
want to acknowledge what Mr H has told us about the challenges hes faced with his health 
 I was also sorry to hear how stressful he found the matter hes complained about. Though 
Ive not upheld Mr Hs complaint, my intention hasnt been to in any way discount his 
experience. But Ive had to decide the extent to which I can fairly hold Nationwide 
responsible. Looking through his submissions, and listening to the calls Mr H had with us, he 
has only asked our service to review the issue of being transferred to the closed helpline. So 
this decision focusses on that concern. Nationwides offer of £10 was for the incorrect 
information concerning when hed receive the temporary credit. Nationwide has apologised 
for the matter Ive reviewed  and Ive found that to be sufficient in the circumstances. 
Theres no doubt the agent made a mistake when transferring Mr H through to a closed 
helpline, and its true that ideally she would have checked the opening times for that team 
before doing so. Had everything gone as it should have, when Mr H called in the agent 
wouldve have told him the disputed transaction team were only available until 5pm and to 
try calling back the following day. As it happened, Mr H found that out for himself a few 
moments later when he was put through and the helpline was already closed. So, objectively 
speaking, the impact of the mistake ought to have been that for a few seconds he thought he 
might get an update on his claim that day, followed by some minor frustration that he wasnt 
able to speak to the team (something he was never going to be able to do anyway, as he 
had called after 5pm). 
Mr H has explained that for him the impact was very serious, and affected his mental health. 
I dont doubt thats true, and to an extent Nationwide must take their victim as they find 
them. But I also have to balance that against what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Having done so, I dont find the level of harm Mr H has claimed for was a 
reasonably foreseeable consequence of the mistake  even with Nationwide knowing what it 
did about his situation. 
As Ive said before, I dont discount Mr Hs experience and the impact hes felt, but I have to 
decide what Nationwide are accountable for here  and whether theyve done enough to put 
things right, bearing in mind the extent of their responsibility in the matter. In this case Ive 
found the impact described is more likely to be linked to Mr Hs health challenges, rather 
than the mistake itself. Nationwide has apologised, and fed back to the staff member 
concerned  and though I know Mr H remains angry and frustrated by what happened, I 
deem those to be sufficient steps to rectify what happened. So, while I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr H, Im not requiring Nationwide to do anything further in 
resolution of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman