DRN-2009881
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that an equity release mortgage was mis-sold to her mother, Mrs M, 
by a representative of Investacc Limited. Mrs D is representing her mother under a Power of 
Attorney. To settle the complaint, Mrs D wants Investacc to repay all the interest from the 
loan.
What happened
In 2008 Mrs M was given advice about equity release mortgages by Investacc. The fact-find 
compiled at the time shows that Mrs M had investment income from bonds of just over 
£4,300 per annum, along with her state pension and a private pension, giving her a net 
income of about £17,500. 
Mrs M told the adviser that she wanted to raise capital for herself and her children, so that 
she didnt need to use her current capital. The fact-find also records that Mrs M told 
Investacc that if she used her existing savings, this would reduce her income.
Mrs M had two meetings with Investacc. On the first she was accompanied by a close friend, 
and the second meeting took place in the presence of Mrs Ms solicitor and Mrs Ms friend, 
at the solicitors offices.
Following these meetings, the adviser recommended an equity release mortgage of £60,000 
(including fees of £595) secured against Mrs Ms home, which was worth about £280,000.
Mrs Ms daughter, Mrs D, has now complained that she (Mrs D) thinks the advice was 
unsuitable. Mrs D says that she doesnt believe Mrs M was fully aware of what she was 
agreeing to. 
Mrs D is unhappy that the amount of Mrs Ms capital wasnt recorded on the fact-find. Mrs D 
says that if there had been thorough enquiries by Investacc about the amount of capital 
Mrs M had, she would not have been advised to take out this mortgage. Mrs D says that Mrs 
M had surplus income from her investments and so she should have been advised to stop 
taking an income from those and release some of the investments instead.
Investacc didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter dated 16 May 2019, it was 
explained to Mrs D that the sales process had followed Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
requirements. Investacc noted that the amount of capital hadnt been recorded, but didnt 
consider this to be a material omission, given that the income from that capital had been 
recorded and that Mrs M had specifically said she didnt want to use any of her existing 
capital.
Investacc also noted that the adviser had written to Mrs D in 2008 (presumably at Mrs Ms 
request) enclosing information about an equity release mortgage.
Overall, Investacc was satisfied its sales process had been carried out properly and with 
diligence and so didnt uphold the complaint.
Dissatisfied with Investaccs response, Mrs D complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was 
satisfied that the recommendation was suitable, based on Mrs Ms circumstances at the 
time.
Mrs D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Shes reiterated her 
concerns about what she says is Investaccs failure to take into account Mrs Ms capital, and 
that she thinks Mrs M wasnt aware of what she was doing. As a result, Mrs D thinks the 
recommendation to take out the mortgage was unsuitable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to note that Mrs M is now suffering from dementia, and so she herself is unable to 
bring the complaint. I will explain what that means for this complaint.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mrs M is a consumer, and 
so meets the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. For the purposes of 
this complaint, the rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible 
complainant by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this 
respect, Mrs D is bringing the complaint on her mothers behalf, and as Attorney is 
authorised by law to do so.
But I must explain that, although Mrs D is representing her mother, it is Mrs M who is 
Investaccs customer. Mrs Ds role is to bring Mrs Ms complaint, in the same way that other 
consumers might instruct a relative, solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. 
But this does not entitle Mrs D to air her own grievances about Investacc, because Mrs D is 
not its customer; her role is limited to putting forward the estates complaint
.
I note from the detailed correspondence that Mrs D has expressed her own concerns about 
what she perceives to be Investaccs failings  and I do not doubt her strength of feeling 
about this. But because Mrs D is not Investaccs customer, her own concerns about 
Investacc dont form part of this complaint.
Mrs M hadnt complained about the mortgage previously, and it seems that it was only when 
Mrs D looked closer at Mrs Ms financial affairs after Mrs M lost her mental capacity that a 
complaint was raised with Investacc. So in this final decision I have looked at the sale of the 
plan. Without a specific complaint from Mrs M about it, I have considered generally whether 
Investacc did anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out.
I can understand Mrs Ds concerns. This type of mortgage provides that no repayments are 
made, and interest rolls up. As a result, the amount of the overall debt to be repaid can 
sometimes come as a shock to family members. 
When these products were first offered to the market from the late 1980s onwards, it was 
envisaged that there was the potential for family members to be unhappy when they learned 
that their relatives had taken out an equity release mortgage. Precisely because of this, the 
sales process for these products has always been very robust, with borrowers required to 
take advice from their own solicitors, as well as an independent financial adviser.
The crux of the complaint is that Mrs D considers the advice to take out the mortgage was 
unsuitable. I see from the final response letter sent by Investacc that Mrs D also raised 
numerous other points, for example, that the fact-find wasnt signed, and about a minor discrepancy in the fee paid to Investacc by the lender. But I will concentrate on the main 
focus of her complaint, which is about the advice to take out the mortgage. Our rules allow 
me to do this.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
I understand that Investacc was introduced to Mrs M by her solicitor, after Mrs M had 
discussed capital raising with him. Its recorded in the fact-find that Mrs M had been thinking 
about equity release for three months before she spoke to Investacc. The solicitor attended 
a meeting between Mrs M and Investacc when the fact-find was completed. Mrs M was also 
accompanied at her meetings with Investacc by a close, trusted friend.
The documentation from 2008 is clear that Mrs M discussed using her existing capital rather 
than taking out the equity release mortgage  and that Mrs M was said that she didnt want 
to do so, or to move house. Given this, the only option for Mrs M to raise capital was by 
equity release. Its recorded that Mrs M had discounted moving to another property because, 
although her house had been on the market, she hadnt received a suitable offer, and the 
only house shed considered moving to needed a lot of work. As a result, Mrs M decided to 
stay in her existing home.
It would have been helpful if the fact-find had set out in detail the amount of capital Mrs M 
held. But Mrs M told Investacc that she didnt want to use any of this, as it was generating 
income for her. The income from the capital was listed. But I dont think Investacc made a 
mistake. I say this because it wouldnt have been correct to include the capital as an 
available asset if that same capital was the means by which a proportion of Mrs Ms income 
was generated.
The fact-find also records that Mrs M had been meeting capital expenditure from income 
and from existing capital, which means that in the long term, your income will diminish. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that there was a full, open and frank discussion about 
Mrs Ms financial situation, her personal circumstances and her wishes. After taking into 
account what Mrs M had said, the recommendation was made for an equity release 
mortgage. I am satisfied that this was suitable advice, given Mrs Ms circumstances.
Investacc wrote to Mrs D  presumably on Mrs Ms instructions  enclosing information 
about equity release mortgages. Mrs M also confirmed to Investacc that shed discussed her 
plans with family members. But even if she had not, it was Mrs Ms choice to proceed with 
the mortgage and she was entitled to make this decision herself.
The rules under which equity release mortgages are sold place a duty on both the adviser 
and the solicitor to cease giving advice if there is any suspicion that their client lacks mental 
capacity. Mrs D has confirmed that it wasnt until 2012 that her mother was diagnosed with 
dementia. There is nothing in the documentation to suggest that Mrs M had any cognitive 
impairment at the time the advice was given in 2008 which might have led Investacc to 
believe she didnt understand what she was doing.
After taking note of everything Mrs D and Investacc have said, Im satisfied that the 
mortgage wasnt mis-sold and the advice given by Investacc was suitable.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D, on behalf of 
Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman