DRN-3263043
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly 
declined their claim under their home contents insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs B are represented in this complaint by a loss assessor but, for ease, Ill refer to 
Mr and Mrs B throughout.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr B received a phone call from someone claiming to be the police who said 
the jewellery he kept in a safety deposit box was at risk and he should bring it home. Mr B 
was persuaded to bring the jewellery home. Once home the caller spoke to Mr Bs daughter 
on the landline and said there was an operation going on at the safety deposit box company 
and the staff were involved. They said the original valuables had been copied and replaced 
in the safety deposit box and the real valuables were at the police station. They gave a crime 
reference number and the name of the police officer responsible. Mrs B then went with her 
daughter to the police station. When they arrived and explained why they were there, the 
police said they knew nothing about it and they realised it was a scam. In between times, 
someone had gone to Mr and Mrs Bs residence and collected the valuables from Mr B, 
saying it was evidence. 
Mr and Mrs B made a claim the next day. Lloyds declined the claim as it said theft by 
deception was excluded from their policy. The only exception to that exclusion was if the 
only deception was gaining entry to the private residence. Mr and Mrs B didnt agree their 
claim wasnt covered under the terms of their policy. They said the theft took place in the 
front porch of their property and as that was part of their private residence, they felt the 
thieves had gained entry to the property by deception. Lloyds maintained its decision. They 
agreed the porch was part of their private residence but said the deception was persuading 
Mr B to collect the valuables from the safety deposit box and taking them home. Lloyds also 
said high risk items kept at the property were covered for up to £30,000 but the valuables 
that were lost werent kept at the property permanently. 
Mr and Mrs B said the terms of their policy didnt specify how long items needed to be kept 
at the property to be covered under the policy. And they said their daughters jewellery was 
normally kept at home  it was only in the safety deposit box temporarily. Lloyds maintained 
its decision and Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything more. He said the CCTV evidence 
showed the thief was handed the valuables at the front door of the property, in the porch. He 
said they wouldnt have needed to gain entry to the porch as it was an open porch, so he 
didnt think theyd gained entry by deception. And, even if they had, he didnt think that was 
the only deception. So, he thought Lloyds had assessed the claim fairly and reasonably, 
according to the terms of the policy.
As Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators view, their complaint has been passed 
to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs B but, having done so, Ive reached the 
same outcome as the investigator and for largely the same reasons. Let me explain why. 
Mr and Mrs Bs home contents insurance policy with Lloyds covered them for loss of, or 
damage to, the contents in their private residence. Theres no dispute the valuables were in 
the private residence at the time of the loss. Lloyds said they werent normally kept at their 
home but as Mr and Mrs B pointed out, the terms of the policy dont specify how long the 
contents need to be at the property to be covered under it. So, I dont think Lloyds can rely 
on that.
The key part of the policy relevant to this complaint is the part that specifies that loss by 
deception isnt covered. Thats a clear exclusion and theres no dispute here that Mr and 
Mrs B were the victims of an elaborate deception. But there is an exception to the exclusion 
and its this part of the policy thats in dispute. The policy says that loss by deception isnt 
covered under the policy unless the only deception is gaining entry to your private 
residence. The policy defines what it means by private residence and Lloyds accept that the 
porch, where Mr B handed over the jewellery, is part of the private residence. 
So, the first question here is whether the thieves gained entry to the property using 
deception. Our investigator didnt think the thieves had gained entry to the property - they 
hadnt needed to as the valuables were handed to them in an open porch. While Mr and 
Mrs C believe the thieves did gain entry to the property by means of deception and with the 
sole purpose of committing a theft. I think this could be argued both ways and much would 
depend on what is meant by gained entry. But I dont think I need to take a view on this as I 
think it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim on the basis that gaining entry wasnt 
the only deception, as Ill now go on to explain. 
The second question here is whether the only deception was gaining entry to the private 
residence. Mr and Mrs B say this was a well-planned theft with only one deception that 
continued until the offenders had taken possession of the valuables. I dont necessarily 
disagree with that but I dont think it can be reasonably argued that the only deception was 
gaining entry to Mr and Mrs Bs property. There was clearly a lot of deception before the 
thieves did that. They used deception to persuade Mr B to collect the valuables from the 
safety deposit box and they used deception to lure Mrs B and her daughter away from the 
private residence. It could be argued that this was all part of one deceptive act, but I dont 
think gaining entry to the home was the only deception that took place. And so, I think it was 
fair and reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the loss by deception exclusion and decline Mr and 
Mrs Bs claim.
Im very sorry to hear about the circumstances surrounding this theft but I dont think Lloyds 
needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 Richard Walker
Ombudsman