DRN-2789820
The complaint
Mr A complains that Phoenix Life Limited previously Abbey Life Assurance Company 
Limited, misled him about the terms of his bond policy.
All references to Phoenix Life will include Abbey Life.
What happened
In 1967 Mr A purchased a single premium bond policy (the policy) from Phoenix Life  the 
single premium was £1,500. On death the minimum sum assured was £4,500 and could 
increase with investment bonuses. Mr A said one of the reasons he purchased this policy 
was because it provided life assurance cover three times more than the original investment. 
In 1981 Mr A needed some funds, so he decided to surrender the policy. But he was advised 
to take out a loan against the policy by Phoenix Life because this way he could retain the 
£4,500 death benefit. The terms of the policy stated that Any loans made by the Company 
on the security of the Policy (including any interest owing) shall be a first charge on the 
Policy in the Companys favour and will be deductible by the Company from any amount 
payable under the Policy. A separate document was issued in respect of the loan, called the 
Liquidity Facility Provisions (the provisions). 
In 2019, Mr A discovered the sum assured had been reduced to £1,500. So he complained 
to Phoenix Life saying that it should be £4,500.
Phoenix rejected Mr As complaint. It explained that the sum assured had been reduced 
because of the loan Mr A had taken out against the policy in 1981. Phoenix Life noted that 
when Mr A borrowed against the policy, it was subject to the provisions. Amongst other 
things, these said if the loan wasnt paid back within ten years the sum assured would be 
reduced to the amount of premiums paid, which in this case was £1,500. Phoenix Life noted 
Mr A had benefited from an interest free loan facility totalling £3,679 in 1981 and this hadnt 
been repaid at any point. So the sum assured of £1,500 was correct.
Mr A remained unhappy. He said if hed been told by Phoenix Life that the claim was subject 
to the loans ten-year rule, he would have arranged to pay back the loan before this time. 
Mr A said he wasnt told about this when he was advised to take out the loan in 1981.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. In brief, she considered Phoenix 
Life had acted in line with the terms of the policy. And she thought the provisions clearly 
explained how the loan would impact on value of the policy. 
Mr A disagreed. He said he wasnt provided with a copy of the provisions at the time of 
taking out the loan, so he didnt think it was fair that the sum assured had been reduced. 
Mr A asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im not upholding the complaint. Before I explain my reasoning, 
I understand that Mr A has raised a number of points during his contact with this service. 
Although I may not mention every point he's raised, Ive considered everything Mr A has said 
but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. I'll also 
mention at this stage that where there's a dispute about what happened, I've based my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence.
I see the terms and conditions of the policy itself say the amount payable on death is the 
amount on the face of the policy, which in Mr As case was £4,500. But it also says that if a 
loan is taken out, then the policy becomes security for the loan  Ive summarised these 
terms above. So when Mr A took out the loan in 1981, I think it was made reasonably clear 
to him the policy would be the security for the loan and that it (the loan) would be 
deductible by the Company from any amount payable under the Policy. 
Mr A says he wasnt provided with a copy of the Liquidity Facility Provisions  these were 
separate from the terms of the policy and explained the terms of the loan. Under the 
provisions it said:
All loans will be a first charge on the Policy in the Companys favour and if not repaid earlier 
will be deductible from and set off against any amounts payable under the Policy on Death 
or Surrender 
The provisions also said the sum assured would be reduced to the single premium amount 
should the death of the policyholder occur more than ten years after the start of the loan.
Taking into account the information as set out in the provisions, together with the terms and 
conditions of the policy itself, Im satisfied it was made reasonably clear to Mr A that if the 
loan wasnt paid back, the sum assured would be reduced to the single premium amount. 
Given the terms of the policy and the fact that Mr A has had the benefit of the funds he was 
entitled to under the policy, I cant fairly say Phoenix Life has done anything wrong by 
reducing the death benefit to the single premium amount.
Mr A says Phoenix Life told him at the time that if he took out the loan rather than surrender 
the policy, he would retain the £4,500 death benefit. But I note Mr A is recalling 
conversations that took place almost 40 years ago. And whilst Mr As recollections do form 
part of the evidence Ive considered, Ive balanced this with the written documents he was 
given at the time. And these say the loan will be set off against the amounts payable under 
the policy.
Mr A says he wasnt provided with a copy of the provisions and if hed been told about them, 
he would have repaid the loan within ten years. But I dont think theres persuasive evidence 
to support this given that the loan hasnt been repaid in almost forty years. In any event, I 
consider it more likely than not that Mr A was provided with the terms at the time of taking 
out the loan. The lending wasnt insignificant, so I think its likely he would have been given a 
copy of the terms under which the loan was being given. Further, Mr A doesnt dispute being 
given a copy of the terms of the policy itself and these also highlight that any loan will be set 
off against the amounts payable under the policy.
For all these reasons, I dont think Phoenix Life have acted unfairly in Mr As case. And 
whilst I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not upholding the 
complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman