DRN-3910511
The complaint
Miss L has complained about her car insurer U K Insurance Ltd (UKI) regarding a claim she 
made when she was involved in an accident.
What happened
Miss L had an accident in May 2021. She spoke to UKI and was told shed have a hire car 
the next day (29 May 2021). The following day Miss L had to chase the hire company and 
UKI  a technical issue had meant the hire car had not been booked. A hire car was then 
provided, around lunchtime when it should have been available on the morning. Later UKI 
apologised for this initial failure and paid Miss L £75 compensation.
On 10 June 2021 Miss L spoke with UKIs engineer. At this point UKI had been viewing 
Miss Ls car as a write-off, based on the cars value being less than the likely cost of repairs. 
But the engineer noted that Miss L had a quote from her garage, indicating it could repair her 
car for less. The engineer explained to Miss L that this would change the claim position on 
the car from a write-off to payment in lieu of repairs  with UKI paying Miss L for the cost of 
repairs, less the excess. Miss L asked if that meant she would have to pay UKI anything, 
and the engineer confirmed she would not, but that the excess would be deducted from the 
repair cost. That was unless or until the insurer for the other driver accepted liability for the 
accident, in which event the excess would not be deducted or, if settlement had been made, 
the previously deducted sum would be paid to Miss L. The repair sum, as quoted by Miss Ls 
garage, less the excess was subsequently paid to Miss L in settlement of the claim. 
On 15 June 2021 Miss L was told the hire car had been taken off hire on 12 June 2021. 
Miss L hadnt been warned about this. And UKI later accepted it had been wrong both to not 
tell her the car was being off-hired, and in taking it off-hire. The hire agreement was 
re-established, to be reviewed again on 18 June 2021 and UKI paid Miss L £75 
compensation.
Miss L had sent a quote in from her garage. But UKI then began asking Miss L for details of 
the garages address (present on the quote) so it could contact the garage to arrange 
delivery of her car for repair. It was mid-July before UKI delivered the car to the garage  
and when it did so the garage hadnt been made aware to expect it on that day. As a month 
had passed since the quote was put forward the garage didnt then have availability to 
complete the repairs. Work was on-going in September 2021 and UKI ended the agreement 
for the hire car on 14 September 2021. It said it wouldnt reinstate it (it had stopped it and 
then reinstated it twice since June, once in July and once in August).
In July and August 2021, during which time Miss L mostly had use of the hire car, UKI wrote 
to Miss L regarding some of the concerns shed raised with it. UKI accepted it had caused a 
delay in delivering the car to the repairing garage. It paid Miss L £100 to compensate for the 
upset this delay had caused. It also acknowledged some poor customer service during a call 
Miss L had with it on 13 July 2021. And UKI also said it made a mistake when referring to an 
information request Miss L had made to it (regarding the correct term for such requests). UKI 
further provided an additional explanation about the delay in delivering Miss Ls car and 
accepted that this made it look unprofessional. To compensate for the upset caused by 
those issues UKI said it would pay Miss L £75. In regard to concerns Miss L had raised 
about damage to her car caused by UKI, UKI asked Miss L to send it photos of the damage. 
Miss L didnt feel that UKI had answered all of her concerns and she responded to it further. 
On 17 September 2021, regarding the damage caused to her car by UKI, UKI asked Miss L 
to send it a quote for repair.  
Miss L complained to us. She detailed concerns she had about the way UKI staff had 
spoken to her, not having had a hire car as she felt she was entitled to under her policy and 
UKI deducting the excess from her cash settlement. Miss L said the engineer had confirmed 
this wasnt payable and she sent a word document of an email dated 15 June 2021 from 
UKIs engineer which said: we will pay for the repairs to your vehicle and you will not have 
to pay your excess. Miss L said she felt bullied, had spent hours on the phone with UKI and 
had lost money due to it constantly cancelling the hire car. She said UKI had used her 
breakdown cover, without her permission, when delivering her car to the repairing garage. 
Overall Miss L expressed how let down she felt having dealt with UKI over this matter.
Our Investigator felt UKI could have done some things better. But thought the compensation 
it had paid was fair in the circumstances. He felt UKI had provided a hire car as Miss L was 
entitled to under the policy. And that it had been fair for UKI to take the policy excess from 
the claim settlement. Regarding the damage to Miss Ls car, he noted that UKI had asked to 
see photos of that and he didnt feel the statement from the garage was sufficient. So he 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss L was unhappy. Her complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration.
I felt that UKI should pay a further £200 compensation to Miss L and consider its liability for 
the reported further damage to her car, with the tyre possibly being accident related. But 
I wasnt persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to make it pay anything for Miss Ls 
reported lost income. So I issued a provisional decision, my findings of which were:
Hire car 
There was an initial error regarding the hire car which UKI has accepted and paid £75 
compensation for. I think that is reasonable in the circumstances. But, as the claim 
progressed, further issues arose with the hire car.
The policy Miss L has says that the period over which Miss L will be entitled to a hire car will 
differ depending on what has happened to or what remedy is being applied to her car. 
Initially UKI was treating Miss Ls car as a write-off, or a total loss. But on 10 June 2021  
before UKI cancelled the hire agreement for the first time  it began to view the car as 
repairable. The engineer explained that by paying Miss L, so she could repair the car, no 
total loss marker would be recorded on her claim or applied to her car. And as Miss Ls car 
was not driveable, I think its fair to say that, at that time, Miss L was entitled to the hire cover 
which applies to situations where an insured car is repairable but not driveable and is to be 
repaired by a garage of the policyholders choosing.
The cover available to Miss L, in that instance, is for a hire car for up to 21 days in a row. 
Theres no caveat or exclusion to that to say the cover can be cancelled during that 21 day 
period if the claim settlement is delayed or if payment for repairs is made. But equally the 
policy doesnt hold UKI to providing cover for a whole period of 21 days in a row. I think its 
fair to say that a total of 21 days is the maximum hire period the policy promises UKI will pay 
for.That said UKI, inexplicably, cancelled the hire car on 12 June. I can see no good reason for 
that at all. Miss L only found out about this on 15 June 2021 and she then spent a little while 
calling UKI to get it reinstated. I can understand that was frustrating for Miss L. But I note 
that UKI has accepted it failed Miss L in both these respects and that it acted to reinstate the 
hire car and to pay Miss L compensation. I think that was a fair and reasonable response in 
the circumstances. 
  
UKI cancelled the hire car twice more, once in July and once at the end of August. The first 
of those two instances was 23 July 2021. By this time Miss L had had the hire car for more 
than 21 days  but I take her point that UKI had delayed the claim. I also note that UKI 
accepts that it caused delays  that in mid-June it had the information it needed to arrange 
delivery of the car to the repairing garage but that it didnt do that until mid-July. So the 
delays meant that what the policy entitled Miss L to is not relevant  rather UKI had to act 
fairly so that Miss L was not worse off because of its delays. Keeping Miss L in a hire car for 
a reasonable period to allow her car to be repaired was a fair way of doing that. Cancelling 
the agreement twice, and without warning Miss L, was not fair or reasonable. 
I take UKIs point that the hire car was never actually taken away from Miss L. But once she 
was told each time that the agreement was ended, she couldnt reasonably use the hire car 
until it was reinstated. And it is clear to me that there were a few days, due to these two 
cancellations, when Miss L couldnt reasonably use the hire car. That, in order to get the hire 
agreement reinstated, Miss L had to spend time calling UKI to sort that out. I accept that was 
frustrating and inconvenient for Miss L. So far UKI has not offered or paid Miss L any 
compensation for this upset  Ill bear that in mind when looking at compensation later in my 
findings. 
I think it was reasonable though, in mid-September 2021, for UKI to end the hire agreement 
entirely and refuse to reinstate it. By this time the car had been with the repairing garage for 
nearly two-months  UKI had delayed getting the car to the garage for one month but the 
repairs had only been expected to take around three weeks. Even with the delivery of the car 
being so delayed I dont think the repairs then extending for more than a month beyond the 
expected repair period was something I could reasonably say UKI should fairly be 
responsible for. Aside from the two cancellations, which Ive said above were unreasonable, 
and unreasonably handled, I think UKI keeping Miss L in a hire car until 14 September 2021 
was a fair and reasonable way for it to limit the disruption she would otherwise have had to 
face, given the policy limitations, because of its delays.
Excess
Miss L has complained about UKI deducting the policy excess from her repair settlement, 
I think UKI has correctly advised that the excess is part of the agreed policy in place 
between it and Miss L. And I can also see that at various times during this claim UKI has 
referred Miss L to the policy excess. But I think the real issue here is that Miss L believes 
she was promised that the excess would be waived. So Ive considered whether Miss L was 
reasonably told that, or led to believe that. I dont think she was.
Ive quoted in my background above from the word document Miss L has provided. Ive 
noted the date and time detailed in that document and, having listened to a call between 
Miss L and UKIs engineer on that day, from around that time, I know an email was 
forwarded to her by the engineer around the time detailed on the word document. So whilst 
the word document is not the email itself, and UKI says the engineer would not have sent 
this, Im prepared to take it at face value as being the email the engineer likely sent to 
Miss L. But, having heard that call, and another from the week before that, also between 
Miss L and the engineer, I think its important, having acknowledged, on the face of it the 
emails validity, for me to think about its content in its likely context.So this email, sent on 15 June 2021, was, according to the conversation that was taking 
place when it was sent to Miss L, a copy of an email sent the week before, during another 
phone conversation. So Ive listened to the call from the week before. In that call, Miss L and 
the engineer are discussing the likely repair cost. And the engineer also takes some time to 
try and explain some of the claim points to Miss L that she has said to the engineer she is 
concerned or unsure about. One of those is the excess and how that is affected by the fact 
that UKI hadnt, at that time, had acceptance of liability from the insurer for the other driver. 
The engineer explains that, until that happens, Miss L will be liable for the policy excess. 
Miss L asks the engineer if this means she has to pay UKI something. And the engineer 
clarifies that no, Miss L will not have to pay anything, but UKI will deduct the policy excess 
from the repair cost detailed by her garage and which he, excess aside, thinks is reasonable. 
In light of that context, I think that the email content; we will pay for the repairs to your 
vehicle and you will not have to pay your excess, cannot reasonably be read as an 
agreement to waive the excess. Rather it is confirmation of the explanation that has been 
provided  that Miss L will not have to pay UKI. If Miss L reads this differently then I think 
that is unfortunate  but given the clarity of the conversation that took place between Miss L 
and the engineer that preceded this email initially being sent, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to say Miss L was misled by UKI into thinking her policy excess would be 
waived. Im, therefore, not persuaded that UKI unfairly or unreasonably withheld the excess 
sum from its claim settlement.
Damage to car whilst in UKIs care
After UKI had delivered Miss Ls car to the repairing garage, Miss L reported it had new 
damage on it, on the opposite side from the accident damage. She said shed send UKI a 
quote for that repair. In response UKI asked to see photos and, later, seemingly not having 
received either any photos or a quote, UKI asked to see a quote for repair. Having reviewed 
UKIs files and the correspondence Miss L has shared with us, I cant see that any photos of 
the new damage, or a quote for its repair have been sent to UKI. And when Miss L was 
asked if/when she had sent this detail to UKI, she said it had never asked to see a quote. 
But it has, quite clearly, asked to see both a quote and photos. I dont think that it asking to 
see those is unreasonable in the circumstances.
I know that Miss L has provided a statement from the repairing garage which states the 
off-side front tyre was burst and that there was some bodywork damage to that side too. 
I know there are photos and a video from the point of the crash, which I have reviewed. But, 
in respect of the body-work at least, I can see why UKI doesnt feel able to make a decision 
as to whether or not it is liable for the damage based on that detail alone. The statement 
from the garage is not descriptive enough to then adequately view the post-accident images 
with a view to concluding if they show or dont show the damage now being claimed for. The 
off-side of the car, as I understand it, was not impacted by the other vehicle during the crash 
 but that doesnt necessarily mean it wasnt suffering damage at that time. So its important 
to be able to view those post-accident images with a view to comparing them to images, or a 
clear description, of the damage noted when the car was delivered to the repairing garage. 
Neither I nor UKI, can currently do that. But even once that comparison can be undertaken, 
Miss L has not shown what her loss is/was in this respect as no quote or cost has been 
shown for repairing the damage. If Miss L wants to pursue this aspect further she should 
send evidence of the damage  photos and/or a clear description from the repairing garage, 
along with a quote and/or invoice showing the cost to repair, to UKI for it to consider. 
When Miss L does that, she should send UKI any evidence of her cost to replace the burst 
tyre too. UKI should then let Miss L know what its view on the tyre is. I think though that the 
tyre needs considering separately to the body-work. The tyre has been presented by the repairing garage as being a new issue  but the post-accident video clearly shows the 
off-side front tyre was flat at that time. And whilst that tyre was not impacted by the other 
vehicle, its possible, given its contact with the road and the forces of the crash, that it 
suffered damage as a result of the crash. So, on the face of it, the flat/burst tyre may well 
have been incident related damage. UKI then will need to consider whether or not that is 
most likely the case and, if it is most likely, whether or not it has any remaining liability, over 
and above the £900 repair sum already agreed to (and paid less the policy excess) for any 
cost Miss L had for replacing the tyre. 
Use of breakdown cover
I know UKI used a recovery agent which is also connected to the breakdown cover Miss L 
has. But that does not mean that UKI used Miss Ls breakdown cover. I dont think UKI failed 
Miss L in this respect.
Customer service and compensation 
I know the garage werent told when the car was being delivered to them. I can understand 
Miss Ls frustration in this respect. But UKI knew the car was to be repaired by that garage, 
and it (UKI) had delayed matters already. So I can understand why it then acted to get the 
car to the garage as soon as possible, even though that meant the garage wasnt spoken to 
first to warn of the cars arrival. 
Miss L had concerns with several of UKIs representatives. UKI has, ultimately, accepted 
that one talked over Miss L at times, but it didnt agree that the same representative had 
raised his voice to Miss L. I think that is a fair assessment of the call that took place. But 
assessing a call like this does, to an extent, involve an element of subjective judgement. 
I mention this here as I know Miss L has concerns about the first of UKIs complaint handlers 
who said theyd listened to this call and didnt think Miss L had been spoken over. Miss L has 
said this person must have lied about listening to the call. I dont think that is the case. 
Rather I think their view of the call is just different. I know Miss L will likely say how can that 
be?. And I think Id agree that, an assessment that concluded that, was likely unfair in the 
circumstances. But that doesnt mean that the call was not listened to, or that UKIs 
representative lied about listening to it. That would be quite a reckless thing for them to have 
done and I dont think its likely that would have happened. 
Im not persuaded that UKIs representatives, in calls or other communications with Miss L, 
were rude or unprofessional. I know Miss L found UKIs style to be somewhat blunt, perhaps 
uncaring  I know she told the engineer she was upset as no one had asked how she was, 
as shed been injured during the accident. But UKIs claims and complaint handlers were 
there to progress her claim for her damaged car and her complaints about the service it had 
provided in that respect. So I can understand why they wouldnt have asked Miss L about 
her injuries. And why theyd have dealt with claim issues matter of factly. I dont think UKI 
failed Miss L in its general tone or content of communication. And I havent seen anything 
that makes me think UKI was bullying Miss L.
I know that being bullied is how Miss L felt. And I certainly can understand that she was 
frustrated by UKI, for example, asking for her garages details, when it already had those. 
But that wasnt a case of UKI intentionally harassing Miss L. Rather it seems that UKI didnt 
always handle the claim well, and that resulted in it doing things like asking for information it 
already had, and would have known it had, had it been managing the claim better. 
Im mindful that, overall, UKI has paid Miss L a total of £325 compensation. For the aspects 
against which it has paid that compensation, I think that is fair and reasonable. But in paying 
those sums UKI has not acknowledged the frustration Miss L felt when she learnt that the car was being sent to the garage without proper notice being given, or the frustration and 
inconvenience she suffered when the hire car was cancelled in July and late-August. And 
I bear in mind that the second and third occasions of cancellation would have involved 
additional frustration for Miss L due to the repeated nature of this failure. I think UKI should 
pay Miss L £200 compensation for the upset and inconvenience these failures by it caused 
her. I think that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Lost earnings
I know Miss L has reported lost earnings due to time spent on the phone to UKI and due to 
not having use of a hire car. But knowing that Miss L spent time on calls and/or had a few 
days where she couldnt us the hire car doesnt necessarily mean that earnings were lost. 
And even if they were, it doesnt mean they were lost reasonably. In other words that Miss L 
could not have done something to avoid their loss  either, for example, by rescheduling 
clients, or calling UKI between or after her appointments. Whilst I know this has been a 
difficult time for Miss L, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable for me to make UKI 
compensate her for lost income. 
Miss L received my provisional decision but did not provide any comment in respect of it. 
UKI said it didnt think it was fair or reasonable for me to award £200 compensation because 
it had not had chance to consider the two periods of off-hire which I had referenced in 
suggesting that award.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed maters in light of UKIs reply. And Im not persuaded my provisional findings or 
award need amending. UKI knew in September 2021 that Miss L was unhappy with 
everything that had happened and at that time she again referenced the provision of the hire 
car, it being cancelled without her being told, delays in the claim and that UKI had caused 
her financial loss. UKIs response to that was to say the hire agreement would not be 
extended further, it had answered all her complaints and if she remained unhappy she 
should revert to us for her complaint to be reviewed. Which is what she did, and which 
resulted in my provisional and now final decision. 
As UKIs objection has not persuaded me to change my view on the complaint, and Miss L 
has not presented any comment for me to consider, Ive no reason to further review or 
amend my provisional findings. They, along with my comments here, are now the findings of 
this my final decision. 
 
Putting things right
I require UKI to pay Miss L a further £200 compensation. And, if UKI has not paid Miss L any 
of the previously promised sums  £75 in early June, £75 in mid-June, £100 in July and £75 
in August  it will have to pay them now too. 
Further if/when Miss L provides UKI with further evidence regarding off-side body work 
damage, and her costs for repairing that and replacing the off-side front tyre, UKI should 
consider its liability for these damages in line with my comments above. 
 My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Ltd to provide the redress set out above at 
Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman