DRN-3372273
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the service hes received from Link Financial Outsourcing Limited 
(Link) surrounding his been unable to make payments to his account online.
What happened
In September 2020, Link contacted Mr G and informed him that theyd purchased a balance 
outstanding in his name that had been previously held by a different company. Link also 
provided Mr G with information about the various methods available to him for him to pay the 
balance outstanding, including that Mr G could make payments to reduce the amount online.
Mr G wanted to make payments online but was unable to set up an online account to do so. 
Mr G contacted Link about this on several occasions, but it remained the case that he was 
unable to set up an online account to enable online payments to be made. Mr G wasnt 
happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Link looked at Mr Gs complaint, but they didnt feel that Mr G being unable to make 
payments online merited any form of compensation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr G wasnt happy with Links response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that Link had acted 
unfairly towards Mr G such that any form of compensation or action should be merited, and 
so they also didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr G to have been unable to have 
open an online account with Link to enable him to make online payments to reduce his 
outstanding balance with them, and this is especially the case given that Mr G contacted 
Link on numerous occasions about this.
However, while I can appreciate that it may be Mr Gs preference to have made payments to 
Link online, it wasnt necessary for him to make payments online, given the number of other 
channels of payment that Link confirmed to Mr G that he was able to use.
As such, while I acknowledge that Mr G has spent a significant amount of time trying to 
arrange an online account with Link, I dont feel that Link should compensate Mr G for this in 
the manner which Mr G believes here. And this is because Mr G could have made payments 
to his account via other means, such as by telephone or bank transfer, and as such it wasnt 
necessary for him to have taken the time to try to open an online account that he did.
Im aware that Mr G has concerns over the security of payments made to Link via certain 
channels, such as by telephone, and that it was for this reason that Mr G wanted to make 
payments online. But even taking these concerns into consideration, I continue to feel that 
alternative payment channels were and remain a viable option for Mr G, and I note that if Mr 
G has concerns about certain forms of payment then a payment by bank transfer, for 
instance, would provide the security of an clear audit trail for him.
Im also aware that Mr G feels that as Link advertise the ability to make payments online that 
this option should be a possibility for him. But it seems clear from the difficulties that Mr G 
has had trying to open an online account that in this instance other channels of payment 
would provide a quicker and more accessible way for him to reduce his balance with Link. 
And as explained earlier, I dont feel that the fact that Mr G has experienced difficulty with 
one particular payment channel gives cause for any form or compensation or action in this 
instance, given the other payment options open to him.
I realise that this wont be the outcome Mr G was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Link to take any further action at this time. I trust that 
Mr G will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman