DRN-2271429
The complaint
Mr C and Mr C complain about Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SEs decision to decline a 
claim under their landlords insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C and Mr C own the leasehold to a flat which they rent out. They have a policy with 
Liberty which covers contents and fixtures and fittings at the property. 
Unfortunately, there was a break in at the property, which involved damage to the door of the 
flat. The repairs cost over £2,000 and Mr C and Mr C made a claim to Liberty to cover those 
costs.
Liberty declined the claim. They said Mr C and Mr C were covered for contents and fixtures 
and fittings, but not for damage to the building.
Mr C and Mr C complained to Liberty. They said the door should be covered by the policy as 
a fixture and fitting. They pointed out their lease makes the freeholder responsible for 
insuring the building but says they are responsible for their flats entrance door.
Liberty paid Mr C and Mr C £200 because their agent hadnt originally properly explained the 
decision to decline the claim. But they said the decision not to cover the door was correct. 
Mr C and Mr C werent happy with this outcome, so they brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt think Liberty had done anything wrong.
Mr C and Mr C disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The original explanation of the decision to decline the claim wasnt correct. Liberty accepted 
that and paid Mr C and Mr C £200 in compensation. 
I dont think Mr C and Mr C have a problem with that in any case, but for the sake of 
complete clarity, I think that was sufficient compensation for the trouble and upset Mr C and 
Mr C suffered by being given an inaccurate explanation in the first instance.
The rest of the complaint is quite simple. It revolves entirely around whether the front door of 
the property is a part of the building, as Liberty say, or a fixture and fitting, which is Mr C and 
Mr Cs preferred interpretation.
Theres no dispute about that fact that Mr C and Mr C are covered for contents and fixtures 
and fittings, but not for buildings. Mr C and Mr C chose those options when they bought the 
policy. I assume they believed that any damage to the building was covered by the 
freeholder.
Thats not an unreasonable assumption. It would usually be the case that the freeholder 
insures the buildings unless the lease specifically says they wont. Indeed, as I understand it, 
Mr C and Mr Cs lease does say the freeholder will cover the building. But it also makes 
Mr C and Mr C responsible for the entrance to their flat.
This is unfortunate. And I can see why Mr C and Mr C might think theyve been unfairly 
caught between the lease  which suggest they are responsible for insuring part of the 
building (their door) - and the insurance policy  which wont cover the door unless they paid 
for buildings cover.
That, however, isnt the fault of Liberty. And its not for us to comment on the nature of the 
lease that Mr C and Mr C signed up to.
I can certainly empathise with Mr C and Mr C, but the situation with the lease doesnt make a 
door a fixture and fitting. And I think the most common and natural interpretation of the terms 
door and fixture and fitting would not suggest that a door is a fixture and fitting.
I have to say, the wording of the policy is less than helpful. There are three options for cover 
 buildings, contents and fixtures and fittings (Mr C and Mr C took the latter two but not the 
first). There is some explanation of whats covered under each  and I accept Libertys view 
that they couldnt possibly list all parts of a building or all possible fixtures and fittings.
Doors arent mentioned under any of the definitions, so were left with the common sense 
and common usage meaning.
Ill come back to that in a moment and explain my thinking. But first I want to say clearly that 
its not helpful that the definition of buildings in the policy includes The property, its 
permanent fixtures and fittings. 
If there is separate cover for buildings, on the one hand, and fixtures and fittings, on the 
other, its not unreasonable to think there would be a mutually exclusive set of definitions, so 
that a particular thing couldnt be both a part of the building and at the same time a fixture 
and fitting. 
But the definition of buildings in the policy includes (permanent) fixtures and fittings. Im 
sure Liberty dont need me to labour the point as to why thats unhelpful, illogical and makes 
the terms ambiguous to say the least.
Our usual approach is to find in favour of the customer if theres any ambiguity in the policy 
terms which makes it unclear whether a claim should be met or not. The insurer drafts the 
policy terms  and they are the experts.
However, I think the ambiguities in the policy terms in this case  unhelpful though they are  
arent relevant to the central question of whether or not a door is a fixture and fitting. 
It may be that the policy terms (illogically) allow that some fixtures and fittings are part of the 
building (and vice versa), but I dont think the door is either a fixture and fitting (as covered 
by the policy) or a permanent fixture and fitting (as defined as a part of the building, but 
which might then also be said  obviously - to be a fixture and fitting). 
In short, a front door  which is part of the shell of a building  isnt in my view a fixture and 
fitting. You might make a case for internal doors to be fixtures and fittings, if they could be removed without fundamentally altering the nature and use of the building. But I think most 
people would agree that a front door is fundamental to the structure of a home. 
I dont think youd find a single, universally accepted and specific definition of the term 
fixtures and fittings. Most commonly, the term is used in house sales / purchases to define 
the range of things that could be removed and taken with the vendor. And I dont think 
anyone buying a property would expect to turn up on the day of sale to find a hole where the 
front door would normally be.
I also note that the invoice provided by Mr C and Mr C for the repairs includes repairs to or 
replacement of the door frame. And I think it would be even more of a stretch to suggest the 
door frame wasnt part of the building.
This debate could become a very pedantic one, but I dont think it changes the fact that, 
fundamentally, most people would not consider a front door to a property (whether a house 
or a flat inside a larger building) to be a fixture and fitting. And I dont think Liberty are being 
unreasonable or unfair in declining this claim on the grounds that the door and doorframe 
are a part of the building, not a fixture and/or fitting.
I think Mr C and Mr C have been very unfortunate. Im sorry their property was broken into. 
And I can understand their frustration about the gap that was left between their lease 
agreement and their insurance. 
With hindsight, faced with the lease as it stood, they could have either taken out buildings 
insurance (to cover their entrance door) or asked the freeholder to alter the terms. But I dont 
think Liberty are in any way responsible for the unfortunate position theyre now in because 
of the nature of the lease agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr C and Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman