DRN-2840007
The complaint
Mr G complains that FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo) 
provided him with a hire purchase agreement for a car in June 2015 that was unaffordable.
What happened
In June 2015 Mr G entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo for a 
used car. The cash price of the car was around £16,500 and the total repayable under 
the agreement was about £24,900 with 60 monthly payments of around £450.
Mr G says that when he entered into the agreement he wasnt aware of the real cost of 
the credit agreement until after he had signed it and seen the amount of interest that had 
been added to the cost of the car. He says the agreement was unaffordable for him and 
MotoNovo had failed to carry out proper checks before providing him with the credit 
agreement to ensure it was sutainably affordable for him. 
Mr G made payments under the agreement for the car until July 2017 when a direct debit 
was returned unpaid. In September 2017 Mr G explained to MotoNovo that his 
circumstances had changed and he had lost his original employment but had been able 
to  secure a new job so would be able to catch up. A payment arrangement was set up to 
clear the arrears but Mr G didnt pay as required and a new arrangement was set for the 
following month. Mr G sporadically paid as required and in December 2018 MotoNovo 
obtained a return of goods order and the car was repossessed in January 2019.
Mr G complained to MotoNovo that the agreement had been unaffordable and that when 
he had found himself in financial difficulties, he didnt think MotoNovo had treated him 
fairly.
MotoNovo didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said that although it accepted it hadnt taken 
information as to Mr Gs earnings when Mr G had applied for the credit agreement, Mr G 
had signed to confirm that the agreement was affordable for him. MotoNovo said that it 
was a change in Mr Gs circumstances in July 2017 which had caused him to have 
difficulties in making the payments under the agreement.
MotoNovo said it had tried to work with Mr G to make arrangements for the arrears to be 
cleared but he hadnt kept in touch. Due to the size of the arrears that had accrued under 
the agreemen,t MotoNovo had eventually decided to repossess the car. 
Mr G disagreed with the view of MotoNovo and complained to this service. He said he 
didnt think MotoNovo had conducted sufficient enquiries as to the affordability of the 
credit agreement for him.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She said she 
thought MotoNovo hadnt gathered any details about Mr Gs income and outgoings other 
than a credit check, and if it had, it would have found that the agreement wasnt 
sustainably affordable for him. 
Our investigator said that MotoNovo should waive any remaining amount owed under the 
agreement and remove any adverse information from Mr Gs credit file. She also said 
that it while it was fair for Mr G to pay for the usage hed had from the car, she didnt 
think he should pay the full monthly amount set under the agreement. This was because 
the agreement shouldnt have gone live and it was unfair for Mr G to have to pay the 
interest or any charges that had been added. Our investigator said it was fair for Mr G to 
pay £200 for each month the car had been in his possession which amounted to a total 
of £8,400. She said MotoNovo should reimburse any monies paid by Mr G over the 
amount of £8,400. And that this reimbursement should have interest added to it.
Mr G said he agreed the view of our investigator but MotoNovo disagreed. MotoNovo 
said that at the time this credit application had been entered into it hadnt been a 
requirement for it to obtain evidence of Mr Gs annual salary. MotoNovo said it had made 
its decision that the agreement was affordable based on Mr Gs historical payment 
history. It said Mr G had been unable to make payments due to a change in his 
circumstances that arose in July 2017.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at whether a credit agreement was fair and affordable, I need to take into 
account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. There are two 
overarching questions I need to think about in order to decide what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. These are:
1. Did MotoNovo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr G would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown 
that Mr G wouldve been able to sustainable repay the 
agreement
2. Did MotoNovo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
MotoNovo says that the necessary checks as required at that time were carried out to 
ensure this loan was affordable for Mr G. It had looked at his credit history. MotoNovo 
accepts it didnt request information as to Mr Gs income and says it wasnt obliged to 
do so. It also doesnt appear to have reviewed Mr Gs commitments as for instance 
there is no note as to whether he had any dependents.
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC), contains rules for responsible 
lending by consumer credit companies which assist in assessing a consumers ability 
to repay credit. These rules have been amended over the years but were in place from 
01/04/2014. And CONC 5.2.1(1) which was applicable at the time this agreement was 
entered into by Mr G says Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must 
undertake an assessment of the creditworthiness of the customer.
 
A creditworthiness assessment carried out by a lender should be conducted to ensure any lending is affordable and sustainable for the borrower and so should be borrower 
focused and proportionate to the circumstances of the credit. That means things like 
the amount being borrowed, the length of the loan, the size of the repayments as well 
as credit history and any future financial commitments should be considered.
CONC 5.2.4.G (3) says A firm should consider the types and sources of information to use 
in its creditworthiness assessment and assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), which 
may, depending on the circumstances, include some or all of the following: 
(a) its record of previous dealings;
(b) evidence of income
(c) evidence of expenditure
(d) a credit score
(e) a credit reference agency report; and 
(f)information provided by the customer.
 
I accept that under the above rules MotoNovo didnt need to request information and proof of 
income and outgoings, but I think it would have been reasonable and proportionate for it to 
have done so. I say this particularly as this was a credit agreement for around £24,900 to be 
repaid over five years at around £450pm. This was clearly a substantial commitment for Mr 
G to meet. I am unclear how any creditworthiness assessment could be undertaken without 
information as to Mr Gs income.  
Ive seen that MotoNovo obtained very limited information about Mr Gs personal 
circumstances. It noted that he was living with a partner, with parents and was working full-
time. The box as to whether he had dependents was left blank though Mr G says he 
attended the supplying dealer and completed the necessary paperwork while with his two 
children.
MotoNovo says it carried out a credit check though it hasnt been able to provide a copy of 
that to this service, so I dont know what it showed. However, looking at a credit report 
provided by Mr G, which I accept is six years after the point of supply, Ive been able to see 
some of the information that would have been likely to have been present when the 
agreement was entered into. And Ive seen that Mr G had ten active credit accounts at that 
time, five were credit cards, one was a loan, one was a catalogue and three were 
telecommunications accounts. Mr Gs repayments were well managed and there was no 
adverse information recorded. But I think its reasonable to say the amount of accounts 
showed Mr G was relying on credit and should have triggered additional enquiries by 
MotoNovo. I dont think that the credit check alone was reasonable and proportionate to 
check that this agreement was affordable for Mr G when taking into account the financial 
commitment he was taking on. 
I think MotoNovo should have asked questions about Mr Gs commitments beyond what was 
on the credit report. As set out there was no note that Mr G had two dependents and 
importantly that he the rent he was paying would, in a short space of time, increase 
significantly as he was moving his family from living with parents to their own rented 
property. 
I appreciate Mr G had signed the hire purchase agreement to show he could afford the 
monthly payments and that he had no expectation this would change. However, I dont think 
I can reasonably say that his signing the agreement meant MotoNovo didnt still have a 
responsibility to make sufficient checks that the agreement was affordable for him.
So, as I dont think MotoNovo completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr G would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way, I need to go on to consider that if it had carried out such checks, whether the loan would have been found to 
be affordable.
Ive seen that Mr G informed MotoNovo that he was employed full-time and looking at the 
bank statements he has provided, I can this was correct. Mr G wasnt receiving a weekly or 
monthly salary and the payments appear to have been made throughout the month and the 
amounts were ad hoc. However, from the five-month period (March to end of July 2015) 
covered by the statements I have calculated Mr Gs monthly income, if averaged out, was 
around £2,100 (the family was also receiving Child Benefit). I understand that Mr Gs wife did 
not work.
Mr G was paying the following regular expenses:
Rent £400pm
£468.35pm towards credit commitments and debt repayments
£60.41pm telecommunications 
£12.50pm TV licence
£50.49 to HMRC 
£166.25pm for road tax and various subscriptions
£200pm for food
£100 for petrol.
Total outgoings £1,458pm.
The £400pm rent was being paid to a relative of Mr Gs who the family was temporarily living 
with, having moved in April 2015. However, when he entered into this credit agreement Mr G 
had already entered into a tenancy to commence at the end of July 2015 for a rental 
property for him and his family. The rent for that property was £1250pm, council tax was 
£144pm and utilities £100pm so within only a few weeks Mr Gs outgoings were going to 
jump to £2,552pm.
I think that if MotoNovo had asked questions about Mr Gs rent then its likely it would have 
learnt that he had signed a new tenancy agreement and his payments were going to 
increase. Looking at the projected outgoings, I dont think MotoNovo would have found that 
this agreement was affordable. MotoNovo appears only to have asked where he lived and 
no more and I dont think in light of the amount of the credit being provided this was 
sufficient.
MotoNovo says that Mr G was able to afford the agreement because he was able to make 
payments until his circumstances changed in 2017 and he lost his employment. But just 
because an agreement is paid for a period of time doesnt necessarily mean it wasnt a 
struggle to make those payments and difficult choices had to be made, with potentially 
further debt being incurred. And Mr G says that he borrowed money from family and also got 
into other debt by taking out other credit to meet the payments. Looking at Mr Gs income 
and outgoings I dont think these figures support that this agreement was something he 
could sustainably pay and had reasonable and proportionate enquiries been made then 
MotoNovo wouldnt have offered this credit agreement to Mr G.
The final question I need to consider is whether MotoNovo did anything else that was unfair 
or unreasonable. Mr G has raised that he felt it treated him unfairly when he defaulted on his 
payments. However, Ive seen that Mr G did not keep in touch with MotoNovo and that its 
efforts to contact him were unsuccessful. Looking at the payment arrangements that werent 
kept too and that the arrears were building then I think MotoNovo was entitled to take the action it did to take the car back. I dont think it acted unreasonably or unfairly in terminating 
the agreement and re-possessing the car.
So, for the reasons given Im upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Putting things right
As I think this agreement should not have gone live as it was not sustainably affordable for 
Mr G then I am asking MotoNovo as far as possible to put him back in the position he would 
have been in had he not taken out the agreement.
However, Mr G did have use of the car for several months and I think its fair that he pays for 
that usage. There isnt an exact formula for working out what fair usage should be. However, 
in deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the amount of interest that was 
charged under the agreement, the usage Mr G likely had of the car and what his costs to 
stay mobile might have been had he not entered into this agreement. In doing so, I think a 
fair amount he should pay is £200 for every month he had use of the car. It seems Mr G had 
use of the car for around 42 months, therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable for 
MotoNovo to retain £8,400. If Mr G has paid more than that amount, then MotoNovo should 
reimburse that overpayment to him with interest.
If Mr G has paid less than I would expect MotoNovo to arrange a suitable payment plan with 
him for any outstanding amount to be cleared on the account.
I also think that as the agreement shouldnt have gone live Mr G shouldnt suffer any 
detriment from his inability to keep to the payments and MotoNovo should therefore remove 
any adverse information from his credit file about this account.
So, Im asking MotoNovo to do the following:
Remove any remaining amount due under the agreement over £8,400.
Calculate the total amount paid by Mr G, if he has paid more than £8,400 then any 
amount over that should be reimbursed together with annual interest at the rate of 
8% from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
If Mr G has paid less than £8,400 then I would expect MotoNovo to arrange a 
suitable payment plan with him for any outstanding amount to be cleared on the 
account.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit account about this 
account.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. I am asking FirstRand Bank 
Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance to do the following:
Remove any remaining amount due under the agreement over £8,400.
Calculate the total amount paid by Mr G, if he has paid more than £8,400 then any 
amount over that should be reimbursed together with annual interest at the rate of 
8% from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
If Mr G has paid less than £8,400 then I would expect MotoNovo to arrange a suitable payment plan with him for any outstanding amount to be cleared on the 
account.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit account about this 
account.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman