DRN-4273775
The complaint
Mr A through his daughter complains that National Westminster Bank Plc failed to provide 
adequate information in relation to a loan he had with the bank and discriminated against 
him.
What happened
Mr A came to the United Kingdom from abroad in the 1970s. He has spoken English to a 
basic level and has limited literacy. He has built up a sizeable property portfolio. In January 
2014 he took out a loan with NatWest to borrow £500,000 over a five-year term with interest 
at 4% per annum over LIBOR to be repaid by 19 quarterly capital repayments of £5,000 plus 
interest and a final instalment of £405,000. After the loan was taken out Mr A got no further 
correspondence or statements about the loan, just an entry on his bank statements 
indicating that a payment was going out each quarter. Mr A had several health issues and 
when NatWest wrote to him in 2019 to say that the loan had expired he couldnt remember 
having taken out the loan. There was then a dispute between Mr A and the bank about the 
existence of the loan resulting, his daughter says, in the bank closing the account. 
Thereafter, Mr A arranged to bank elsewhere. 
But Mr A then discovered that because he wasnt getting the information from the bank that 
he didnt declare the interest he was paying on the loan to be set-off against his tax bill. Mr A 
says that he lost out on £174,271.28 of set-off. It was only after Mr A redeemed the loan on 
23 December 2022 after raising the money to do so that NatWest provided a document 
setting out all the interest he paid on the loan.
Mr A says because of NatWests communication failures he lost the opportunity to set off 
interest against tax and the opportunity to compare this loan to another and see if there was 
a better way of funding this part of his business. Mr A says that NatWest lacked integrity and 
acted in a discriminatory manner towards Mr A on grounds of race as he was placed at a 
disadvantage compared to customers who are proficient and literate in English. Mr A wants 
compensation for the losses he suffered and to refer NatWest to the ECHR.
NatWest said that it doesnt produce certificates of interest for this product but since 2018 it 
has produced LIBOR advice notices, but these were only issued internally, and none sent to 
Mr A. It offered compensation of £100 for its error. Our investigator didnt recommend that 
this complaint should be upheld. Although she felt that NatWest should have sent LIBOR 
advice notices she said that Mr A would have had the relevant information in the current 
account statements that he received, and that NatWest wasnt required to send other 
statements unless they were required by the customer. Mr A disagreed and asked for a 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that in this complaint Mr As daughter says that she feels that her father has been 
subject to discrimination by NatWest. We are not a court, and we are unable to make a 
finding that the Equality Act 2010 has been breached. Thats a matter for the courts not us. 
But in coming to this decision, I take the relevant law, amongst other things, into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable and that includes this Act.
Mr A is a businessman involved in the letting of property. In January 2014 he took out a 
secured loan with NatWest to refinance his borrowings on four properties, now secured 
against five properties. The capital was to be repaid by 19 capital repayments of £5,000 
quarterly and interest and a final payment of £405,000. Interest was to be charged at 4% 
over LIBOR. The repayments came from Mr As bank account with NatWest, and I see that 
when payments are made that the words ITL appear beside the payment. I can see that 
every quarter, from April 2014 onwards for five years a sum of about £10,000 is paid from 
that account to NatWest in line with what Id expect would be paid under the terms of the 
loan agreement.
Mr As main complaint through his daughter is that because he dd not get regular information 
in the form of certificates of interest or LIBOR advice notices from NatWest that he didnt 
apply to set off the interest that he paid on his buy to let properties against the tax due. Now, 
NatWest is a lender engaged in the lending of money and in this case secured lending on 
properties.. As I understand if from what Mr As daughter says, between 2014 and 2022 Mr 
A has not sought to offset the interest paid on his tax returns in relation to this mortgage. Mr 
A blames NatWest for this. 
I could understand how a claim like this might proceed against the bank if the bank failed to 
provide information to assist Mr A in compiling his interest offset claim on his tax return or 
provided incorrect information. But this is a different case. It seems that Mr A did not submit 
an offset claim at all for any interest that he paid on this account.  But Mr A knew he was 
paying interest to the bank. Mr A is a businessman after all, in the property market, who has 
had loans before who entered into this loan and loans from banks carry interest. He may not 
have known exactly what interest he had to pay and presumably could have checked the 
amount of interest that he paid in a particular tax-year with the bank. But the issue here is 
not that NatWest failed to provide information to compile a tax return but that either Mr A 
didnt know he could set-off that interest against his tax or didnt apply to set-off the interest 
for some other reason. Neither of which is the fault of NatWest. NatWest is not responsible 
for compiling Mr As tax returns or advising Mr A whether the interest that he was paying on 
his loan can be set off against tax. 
But even if Mr A was submitting a tax return and didnt have the information immediately at 
hand from NatWest - and I could understand that he might need further information than he 
had  there is no indication on file that he requested further information from NatWest and 
was refused. 
Rather unusually in this case it seems that Mr A forgot that he had this loan with NatWest, 
and its suggested that NatWest should have reminded him of it by providing information 
about it more regularly. But Mr A was paying about £10,000 a quarter to NatWest for five 
years. Those payments show up in the bank account not, I agree, as a payment to NatWest 
but with the reference ITL. Mr A is responsible for the money coming in and out of his bank 
account and has the assistance of an accountant. It would not have been difficult to confirm 
with NatWest what the ITL was for, if Mr A had forgotten what it was for, or his accountant 
was unsure. Its reasonable to assume that as Mr A had entered the loan agreement, had 
some expectation of what the quarterly repayments would have been, saw the money going 
out of the account quarterly and might have known what ITL meant without needing to ask, but the alternative was there to ask. If I look at one year - 2015 - the four single biggest 
payments paid out of the account in that year were all to ITL, all related to this loan and all 
in excess of £10,000 and were the only payments made in excess of that figure during that 
year. Mr A says that these payments marked ITL only appeared on the statement once a 
quarter and were lost among the noise of the many daily items going through the account. I 
cant accept that because there was so much going on in the account that these substantial 
payments could reasonably be missed or overlooked on the statements and that NatWest 
should have done something more to bring these payments to Mr As attention. 
I appreciate that Mr A could not see from the bank statements alone what was interest and 
what was capital but that would be another exercise. Mr As complaint is not that NatWest 
failed him in that exercise but that he didnt recognise that he was paying NatWest at all. But 
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information in the bank statements that would on a 
reasonably enquiry have identified the payments to NatWest. It was a matter then for Mr A or 
his accountant to ascertain what further information they needed from NatWest to complete 
the tax return. Mr A is a businessman in the property market and will recognise that rates of 
interest are competitive. As the rate of interest on this loan was always 4% above LIBOR 
which Mr A had agreed at the start, if he wanted to compare interest rates he would always 
be able to do so without regular information from NatWest confirming that. Mr A just need to 
know what LIBOR was and that could be ascertained by a phone call.  
Mr As daughter says Mr A has been discriminated against and this has caused him a 
financial loss. I understand that Mr A has language difficulties and literacy problems, 
although he has been able to build a property business. But Mr As loss essentially comes 
from not making a claim to offset bank interest in his tax returns. Submitting Mr As tax 
returns and ensuring that interest is claimed is not NatWests function. I also dont accept 
that Mr A couldnt have reasonably identified the loan repayments on the bank statements.  
So, I cant fairly say that Mr As financial loss is the fault of NatWest.
There are a number of other matters. Mr A complains that NatWest never sent certificates of 
interest or LIBOR advice notices. But there is nothing Ive seen in the documentation that 
says that NatWest would produce these. Ive looked at the loan agreement dated 3 January 
2014 and can see nothing in that about a commitment to send Mr A either of these. I note 
that in NatWests letter of 1 September 2022 it says that it produced LIBOR advice notices 
from 2018 but these werent sent to Mr A. My reading of that is that as a service issue, but 
not from a contractual obligation, NatWest issued these from 2018. They should have been 
sent to Mr A and werent and that by way of apology they paid £100. That seems 
appropriate. 
But Ive seen nothing to suggest that NatWest promised to issue certificates of interest on a 
regular basis. In the context of this complaint, I understand Mr A to say that these would 
have prompted him to know that he had a loan with NatWest and interest was due on it but 
as I say above there was sufficient evidence for this in any case. I also recognise that this is 
a business loan and not a residential mortgage and there is no requirement for NatWest to 
issue the comprehensive annual statements that residential mortgage lenders will produce 
for their customers. So, Ive considered this complaint in detail and considered the relevant 
law including the Equality Act and the other matters I need to have in mind and apart from 
the service issue mentioned above, I cant fairly say that NatWest has done anything wrong, 
and I dont require it to do anything more.  
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already paid £100 in settlement of this complaint which I consider fair and reasonable. I dont require the bank to pay anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman