DRN-3161039
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs S complain about the service provided by Buildstore Mortgage Services 
Limited (Buildstore), an appointed representative of Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited, 
following advice about a self-build mortgage. 
What happened
Mr K and Mrs S approached Buildstore for mortgage advice in 2016. They were looking to 
build a property and required a mortgage which would help finance the build. Buildstore 
recommended a self-build mortgage with a building society. 
The mortgage was subsequently arranged with a term of 35 years and payments on an 
interest only basis during the build. There was a requirement to move to a repayment basis 
on completion of the property and at that time the building society would look to place the 
mortgage on one of its standard residential mortgage products. 
On completion of the property Mr K and Mrs S applied to transfer the mortgage to an 80% 
loan to value product. The building society obtained a professional valuation which valued 
the property at less than expected and it subsequently offered them a 90% loan to value 
product with a slightly higher interest rate.
Mr K and Mrs S disputed the valuation figure and asked Buildstore to help them when 
dealing with the valuer. Buildstore initially sent their correspondence about the valuation on 
to the valuer but later explained that it could not help them any further. Mr K and Mrs S 
referred the complaint to us saying that they had paid a significant fee to Buildstore and that 
arrangement of valuations was part of the service for the self-build mortgage.  
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and concluded that the valuation had been carried 
out for the building society as part of the application to move to a new mortgage product. 
Buildstore was not involved in that process. The investigator noted that Mr K and Mrs S had 
complained to the firm of valuers and received a response with referral rights to the Property 
Ombudsman. 
Mr K and Mrs S did not agree with the investigator reiterating their belief that Buildstore had 
some responsibility to help them with the valuation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The situation here is not straightforward. In its capacity as an appointed representative of 
Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited, Buildstore provided mortgage advice. This resulted in a 
mortgage offer letter which suggested that a different company, B Ltd, had provided the 
advice and as is usual for self-build arrangements had some ongoing conditions. These 
included:
B Ltd will instruct the Societys surveyor to reinspect the project before each stage release, 
or earlier
The name of the valuation firm was included in the offer along with a figure for valuation fees 
and the terms of the offer also provided for further valuation fees to be applied if needed. 
Buildstore and B Ltd are connected and whilst I consider it unhelpful that the relationship and 
responsibilities of the two businesses were not set out in the paperwork provided to Mr K 
and Mrs S I dont think it impacts on my conclusion here or the extent to which I can consider 
this complaint. 
I say this because even if Buildstore (or B Ltd acting for Buildstore) instructed the valuer it 
was doing so on behalf of the building society rather than Mr K and Mrs S. In the 
circumstances here the valuation was for the building society not them. Further their 
complaint is about the valuation itself, that is the action of the valuer in reaching his 
conclusions about the value of the property on completion. That was a matter for his 
professional judgement and not something I would review in any event. 
In general terms the duty on the lender would be to make sure that a suitably qualified 
person had been instructed to carry out the valuation(s). That was the case here and like the 
investigator I note that not only has the valuation been reviewed by management at the 
valuation firm but that complaint referral rights to the Property Ombudsman have been 
provided to Mr K and Mrs S. 
Buildstore was the mortgage intermediary here and provided its service to Mr K and Mrs S 
which went beyond just the initial advice because it (or B Ltd again on its behalf) had a role 
in the drawdown of money during the build. That role was, in my view, ancillary to the advice. 
But like the investigator I dont find Buildstore to have failed in any duty owed to Mr K and 
Mrs S. As set out above it initially sent their correspondence about the valuation on to the 
valuer but later explained that it could not help them with the dispute. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr K and Mrs Ss complaint about Mortgage Advice 
Bureau Limited (represented by Buildstore Mortgage Services Limited). 
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Clare Mortimer
Ombudsman