DRN-4240305
The complaint
Miss R complains about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited, trading as 
Hastings, handled her motor insurance claim and the poor service she received.
What happened
Miss R insured her car with Hastings. In June 2022, she had a car accident. Hastings 
subsequently deemed her car to be a total loss and, on 28 June, offered her £3,735 by email 
to settle the claim. Miss R responded to accept the amount but wanted to know the category 
of write off and whether she could buy it back. 
Miss R then chased payment by calling Hastings on 30 June. The notes show she was told 
the payment was raised that day and she should wait 3-5 working days for it to go into her 
account. Hastings says the payment was rejected when the payment team tried to send it. 
The claims department tried to send it again on 9 September but, again, it was rejected. 
Later Hastings explained this was because it needed Miss R to complete a DVLA licence 
check. It asked Miss R to do this on 26 September. 
Miss R wasnt happy, so she complained to Hastings. It dealt with her complaint under three 
headings as follows in its final response letter (FRL). 
Direct debit payments 
Miss R complained direct debits have been attempted to be taken when shed been told the 
outstanding balance would be cleared by the settlement payment before the balance was 
sent to her.
It said Miss R was told this, however, the settlement payment couldnt be made as a licence 
check was needed. Therefore, payments would carry on as normal until the settlement is 
paid and any remaining direct debits are paid out of this settlement. So, it didnt uphold this 
part of her complaint. 
Conflicting information and recovery costs
As requested on 17 June, Miss R sent the invoice for the recovery costs to Hastings for it to 
consider if this would be paid. She was then told it needed to see proof of payment on 22 
June. Although this information had been received by Hastings, it was only in the FRL (dated 
11 August) that it agreed to send a request to the claims handler to review and confirm if 
further information was needed.
Lack of contact and failed call back requests
Hastings accepted Miss R had requested to speak to or get a response back from her claims 
handler on four separate occasions and none of these were actioned.
It upheld the last two parts of Miss Rs complaint and offered £50 to apologise for the lack of 
contact from the claims handler and not giving Miss R a clear answer about the recovery 
costs. It said feedback would be given to the claims handlers manager. 
Miss R was unhappy with this answer, so she brought her complaint to this service. To put 
things right, she wants the settlement to be paid and her excess to be refunded. She also 
seeks more compensation than the £50 Hastings offered. But she has confirmed it did 
ultimately pay the cost of the recovery invoice to her.
The Investigator looked into this and upheld Miss Rs complaint. They didnt agree Hastings 
offer compensated Miss R for the service and impact of this on her. So, they asked Hastings 
to pay an additional £200 to Miss R. They asked it to arrange to pay the total loss settlement 
(with the relevant excess and premium deductions) as soon as the licence check is complete 
with 8% interest from 30 June 2022 to the date of payment.
Hastings said that, whilst it accepts the claim couldve been better, the recommendation for a 
further £200 seems high. And, although the validation process couldve been implemented 
earlier, it needed to be done. Further, Miss R still hadn't complied with the licence check 
which has led to the delay and so it didn't agree interest on the claim settlement would be 
reasonable. The Investigator responded to Hastings to explain further her recommendations. 
Miss R didnt agree either. She made several points including the following:
- The compensation isnt high enough and the term service issues doesnt accurately 
reflect the detriment these issues caused - it went beyond a few missed call backs 
and updates including misinformation, rudeness, false promises and lies.
- She wont give her licence details to Hastings in the way it has asked for them 
particularly as it asks for her national insurance (NI) number and she doesnt trust 
how this data will be handled. 
The Investigator explained to Miss R they had considered everything in detail when making 
the recommendation and still considered it reasonable for Hastings to have requested the 
license information. They confirmed the link sent by Hastings to Miss R takes her to the 
governments website to complete the licence check so, it wasn't Hastings requesting her NI 
number, but a part of the information she needed to give to access the online service.
The matter was passed to me for a decision. I asked an Investigator to consider an 
additional complaint point. That is, Miss R said she made numerous requests to Hastings to 
return the car to her and asked it not to dispose of it. She said her requests were ignored. 
Miss R has explained the car had sentimental value because a close relation had bought it 
for her (who has since passed away) and so she wouldve had it repaired at any cost.
The Investigator discovered Hastings deemed Miss Rs car a category S total loss and 
disposed of it. The Investigator agreed Miss R had been clear  she wanted the car back 
and asked Hastings not to dispose of it. So, they explained Hastings needed to put things 
right by paying to Miss R compensation of £750 to recognise the distress and inconvenience 
caused by doing this. Miss R and Hastings accepted this recommendation. 
The matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of this 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. 
Both Miss R and Hastings accepted the Investigators recommendation for Hastings to put 
right disposing Miss Rs car against her wishes and the impact of how it handled this. So, 
this isnt something Ive considered as part of my decision. Instead, Ive focused on the first 
Investigators view which neither party accepted. 
The key facts here arent in dispute. Hastings admits it got things wrong. The issue I must 
decide is whether the things it has been asked to do to put matters right - as a result of the 
first Investigators recommendations - is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. 
Im satisfied it is and Ill explain why.
To decide this, its important to distinguish between the distress and inconvenience Miss R 
suffered because she had a car accident and its consequences, which Hastings isnt 
responsible for, with what Hastings did or failed to do that mightve added to that distress. 
For example, Miss R being charged an excess is a consequence of the accident rather than 
something which is Hastings responsibility. 
Taking everything into account, I think its right that Hastings should compensate Miss R for 
the impact of its failures in this matter. And we look at the impact any mistakes had on the 
consumer concerned. I can see from what has been said by Miss R that she has found this 
claim understandably stressful, and this impacted her wellbeing. But I also think its 
important to say I consider Hastings took this matter seriously and recognised the impact of 
its actions when the complaint was raised by offering compensation for its failings, giving 
feedback to the claim handlers manager, and arranging for the recovery fee to be 
considered. That being said, I dont agree the compensation offered by Hastings of £50 went 
far enough to put things right. 
I say this because I consider the service given to Miss R fell below the standard she was 
entitled to expect. And Hastings failed to meet the expectations placed on it by ICOBS when 
handling an insurance claim. Ive seen contradictory and incomplete information was given 
to Miss R at various points in the claim  which led to delays - and several promises to call 
Miss R back which werent met. Further, Hastings failed to realise it couldnt make payment 
to Miss R - despite telling her it had on several occasions after agreeing the settlement 
amount - as it hadnt yet carried out the checks it needed to. By the time it asked Miss R to 
help with this, the trust had broken down and she was sceptical about sharing this 
information with Hastings. 
Taking everything into account, I consider the total compensation of £250 recommended by 
the Investigator (which is a further £200 on top of the compensation Hastings had already 
offered) to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I think this recognises the failures 
Hastings and their agents have made which have elongated the claim process and added 
further distress and inconvenience in addition to what Miss R wouldve experienced due to 
the car accident itself and the usual time our service would generally accept a business is 
allowed to consider and investigate a claim. Turning now to interest on the settlement sum, which Hastings doesnt agree is reasonable. 
Had Hastings carried out the checks it needed to at the outset and asked Miss R to complete 
a licence check, I think it likely Miss R wouldve provided the information she needed to, and 
the payment wouldve been successfully paid to her in June 2022 when it was first 
processed. So, I agree interest is fairly due to Miss R on the settlement sum. However, I 
consider its important to explain my decision on the date interest should be paid until if the 
settlement sum hasnt already been paid to Miss R, with interest. 
I cant now say itd be fair and reasonable to require interest to be paid until payment is 
made by Hastings. This is because the payment is now delayed by Miss Rs decision not to 
complete the licence check. And this is in circumstances where she brought her complaint to 
our service for an independent review and weve explained to Miss R the nature of the check 
and confirmed the link is for the governments website, rather than Hastings, and told her 
this needs to be completed. So, I consider it reasonable to have expected Miss R to 
complete this check within a month of the service giving her its view in the matter and then 
taking the further time to explain this on 14 February 2023. Had she done so, Id have 
expected Hastings to make payment within two weeks. Therefore, its my decision the 
interest should accrue from 30 June 2022 up to 28 March 2023 (that is, one month and two 
weeks after the Investigators last correspondence explaining the licence check).
In light of the above, I would recommend Miss R completes the DVLA licence check as soon 
as possible, if this hasnt already been done.
In relation to the direct debits, I accept Miss R was told her outstanding direct debit 
payments would be taken away from the settlement sum paid to her. And this is correct if the 
payment had been made when the call handler thought it would. As it wasnt, the direct debit 
payments were due and called for in the usual way. Whilst frustrating, it wasnt unreasonable 
for Hastings to do this, although I appreciate it wouldve been clearer if theyd explained what 
might happen if the payment was delayed beyond one of Miss Rs usual direct debit 
payment dates. But I also accept its likely the call handlers saw the payment had been 
processed and didnt think this would be delayed. And Ive taken this into account when 
considering the compensation due to be paid by Hastings set out above.
I note Miss R wants her excess to be refunded to her. Ive seen no reason why Miss R 
shouldnt pay her excess, so Hastings is able to deduct this from the settlement sum. 
I know Miss R will likely be disappointed with this outcome overall. But my decision ends 
what we  in trying to resolve the dispute with Hastings  can do for her. 
Putting things right
Unless it has already done so, Advantage Insurance Company Limited, trading as Hastings, 
should:
- Pay Miss Rs claim for the total loss of her car, using the agreed value of £3,735 (less 
the excess and outstanding direct debit payments, if any). This payment is due once 
Miss R has successfully completed the DVLA licence check.
- Add 8% simple interest to the settlement sum from 30 June 2022 until 28 March 
2023.
- Pay Miss R a total of £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. So, Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
needs to take the steps outlined above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman