DRN-3427924
The complaint
Mr G wants Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, to remove the missed payment 
marker it applied to his credit file. 
What happened
Mr G had not used his credit card for nearly three years and so Virgin Money cancelled his 
direct debit. He then used the card in September 2021 but did not make the minimum 
payment in October 2021. Virgin Money sent a late payment letter to him on 26 October 
2021 and Mr G then paid the balance in full. Virgin Money refunded the late fee as a gesture 
of goodwill. It reported the late payment to the credit reference agencies.
Mr G wants the later payment maker to be removed. He says Virgin Money did not tell him it 
had cancelled his direct debit, nor remind him when the subsequent payment due was 
required.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. He said Virgin Money acted within the 
terms and conditions of the account, and had not made an error by reporting the missed 
payment to the credit reference agencies. It had issued a statement showing the amount 
owing and the payment methods.
Mr G disagreed with this assessment. He supplied information from the direct debit scheme 
saying it was the banks responsibility to advise it was cancelling his direct debit as an 
instruction not being claimed on for 24 months will become dormant. He also said it was not 
correct that a statement was issued confirming the minimum payment due and that a manual 
payment would be needed. Statements are not available from Virgin Money online or by 
email, only by installing its mobile app. 
He asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint, Ill explain why.
I understand Mr Gs frustration in this case, but what I have to decide is whether or not Virgin 
Money has acted in error by applying a late payment marker to Mr Gs credit file.
I can see that Virgin Money issued a statement after Mr G spent on his card in September 
2021 setting out the minimum payment, the due date and how to pay. Virgin Money explains 
Mr G would have received an email to tell him when this statement was available to view. It 
agrees he would have needed to have installed the banks mobile app to view it. 
But the terms and conditions of his credit card state You are responsible for checking your 
statement each month (clause 8.2). So as Mr G knew he had used his card in September 
2021 I find he ought to have ensured he checked this statement. 
The bank has no record he called to discuss his balance and payment due, or to ask about 
installing the mobile app. Had he met his obligation under clause 8.2 I find Mr G would not 
have missed the payment  and he would have seen his direct debit was no longer in place 
to collect the money owing.
It follows I cannot fairly find Virgin Money acted in error by reporting Mr Gs missed payment 
to the credit reference agencies. It is an accurate representation of his account 
management. I note Virgin Money has already waived the late fee as a gesture of goodwill, 
and I am not instructing it to take any further action.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman