DRN-3043655
The complaint
Mrs C complains about invoices she has received from Consumer Compensation Bureau Ltd 
(CCB) for work carried out on claims for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). 
  
What happened
Mrs C says she contacted CCB in 2018 and, using a link sent by text message, asked CCB 
to carry out a free PPI check  but not to make any claims. Mrs C says she doesnt recall 
signing any further documentation. Mrs C says she didnt hear back from CCB and 
instructed another company to pursue the claims on her behalf. Mrs C says the claims were 
successful but she then received invoices from CCB. One invoice was for a claim against 
Lender L and another against Lender S.    
Mrs C complained and CCB acknowledged her complaint and said they would respond 
within eight weeks. CCB didnt provide a substantive response so Mrs C referred her 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs C. CCB didnt provide the information requested 
by the investigator so she thought CCB should waive their outstanding fees. CCB havent 
responded so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
I think its important to stress Ive made my decision based on the information I have. I can 
see our investigator has provided CCB with details of the complaint being made against 
them and allowed them a number of opportunities to provide information. Its important that 
we get an account from all parties in order to consider the complaint fully. In this case, while 
CCB havent provided any information to our service apart from the final response letter from 
Lender S and a copy of their invoice, Im satisfied weve taken sufficient steps, and given 
sufficient time, to enable them to respond. I must be fair to both parties and dont feel its 
reasonable, in this case, for Mrs C to have to continue waiting for an answer to her 
complaint.   
Theres no dispute here that Mrs C did ask CCB to carry out a PPI check. What is in dispute 
is whether she instructed CCB to pursue PPI claims on her behalf. CCB have provided a 
copy of a letter addressed to them from Lender S. And this refers to Mrs C as their mutual 
customer and encloses a copy of a letter sent directly to Mrs C. 
This letter upholds Mrs Cs claim and offers compensation of £6,520.18. CCB then send Mrs 
C an invoice for £1,766.72 which they say represents their professional fees for the claim 
against Lender S.  
Mrs C says she does recall signing something online on the understanding this was only to 
allow CCB to carry out a free PPI check. Mrs C says she contacted Lender S to ask for a 
copy of her signature and agreement. I can see Lender S send a screenshot of Mrs Cs 
signature to her. It appears Mrs C has provided a signature but, in view of Mrs Cs testimony, 
this alone doesnt persuade me CCB had authority to act. Mrs C says the signature was 
provided for the purpose of carrying out a free PPI check only  and not to pursue a claim. 
CCB havent provided any evidence in the form of correspondence and updates sent to    
Mrs C  this would help prove that Mrs C had instructed them and was fully aware of their 
involvement. In addition to this, CCB havent provided a signed letter of authority for Lender 
S or a signed agreement instructing them. The letter from Lender S to CCB shows they are 
aware of CCBs involvement in Mrs Cs claim. So, I dont doubt CCB have communicated 
with Lender S about Mrs Cs claim. And, while this might well suggest CCBs involvement 
has led to the offer of compensation, it does still leave the question whether they had 
authority to act in the first place. And, for the reasons set out above, this is something CCB 
havent proved to the point Im able to say, on the balance of probabilities, that Im satisfied 
they did have instructions from Mrs C. It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint and 
dont agree CCB are entitled to a fee for this claim.   
I can see CCB email Mrs C to say Lender L has confirmed Mrs C did hold an account with 
PPI. CCB say they are awaiting a final response and this may lead to an award of 
compensation. Mrs C responds and says she has never instructed CCB to pursue any 
claims and another company had already helped her settle this claim. CCB then issue an 
invoice to Mrs C. The invoice says Mrs Cs claim against Lender L has settled for £4,256.14 
so CCBs professional fees are £1,149.61. Mrs C responds and says she doesnt have any 
contract with CCB. I have seen this invoice and it has been marked voided. 
It appears CCB have cancelled this invoice. If however, that isnt the case, then the same 
reasons I have given for why CCB arent entitled to their fee for the claim against Lender S 
apply to the claim against Lender L. And, I dont agree CCB are entitled to this fee. 
  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that CCB didnt have instructions to handle Mrs Cs claim against Lender 
L and Lender S. So, they should cancel the outstanding invoices sent to Mrs C.  
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Consumer Compensation Bureau Ltd must 
cancel the outstanding invoices sent to Mrs C for the claims against Lender L and Lender S. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman