DRN-3479749
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) did not reimburse the money he sent 
to a fraudster.
What happened
What Mr D says
Mr D received a cold call from an investment firm offering investments in bitcoin which would 
yield profits of over 100% in just a few weeks. Also, they promised Mr D that he could not 
lose the money he would invest. He would just have to pay them 10% commission. Mr D 
researched the firm online, only saw positive reviews and decided to go ahead.
He made various payments to a crypto wallet selecting friends and family as the payment 
reason. He explained that he selected this reason out of habit. He was able to keep track of 
his investment using an online portal.
Mr D says that in total he lost £6,000, however he could not identify the transactions which 
would add up to a loss of this amount. The transactions which he has disputed with Barclays 
are three payments totalling £4,000:
Date Transaction Amount
21 Feb 2020 Faster payment to payee 1 £2,000
26 Feb 2020 Faster payment to payee 1 £1,000
26 Feb 2020 Payment received from payee 2 £1,000
26 Feb 2020 Faster payment to payee 2 £1,000
Total loss: £4,000
Mr D also told us that he had concerns throughout the investment process but put that down 
to being an inexperienced investor. He also told us that he was vulnerable at the time due to 
his financial circumstances.
When Mr D didnt receive a return on his investment he realised he was the victim of a scam 
and contacted Barclays to raise a claim. 
What Barclays say
Barclays hasnt refunded any of the payments because they werent flagged by their fraud 
detection system and they were unable to recover any of the money once the scam was 
reported to them. Barclays also feel that Mr D shouldve carried out more checks. Barclays 
has offered £150 compensation for the way they handled Mr Ds claim.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt uphold it. She concluded that Mr D 
didnt provide any evidence to show that his loss was £6,000. So she considered the loss to 
be the £4,000 set out in the table above  but also explained that £1,000 of it came from the 
same account Mr D sent the money to, so that its questionable if this is an actual loss or not.
The investigator also said that its unclear if the CRM Code can be applied in this case, but it 
wouldnt make a difference either way. Thats because if the CRM Code did apply, Mr D 
didnt have the necessary reasonable basis to believe that the investment was genuine, to 
be entitled to a refund. Equally, the payments werent unusual enough for Barclays to 
provide a warning. So under the CRM Code, no refund would be due.
The investigator went on to consider whether Barclays had to flag any of the payments and 
couldve prevented the scam in the first place. But she thought that Barclays didnt have to 
flag any of the payments.
Overall, the investigator concluded that Barclays didnt need to refund any of the loss. She 
also said that the £150 compensation offered by Barclays for their claims handling was fair.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said that:
Barclays shouldve flagged the transactions.
Barclays has a duty of care towards their customers, who are lay persons and need 
education in financial matters.
Mr D had no reason to suspect that this was a scam. His scepticism shows that he 
wouldve listened to Barclays advice.
The investigator shouldve also investigated the receiving bank accounts, to find out 
who the beneficiaries were.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Mr Ds loss
Mr D claims that he lost £6,000 in total. However, hes not been able to provide evidence of 
this or to clarify which other transactions were part of the scam to come to this amount. Mr D 
has disputed three payments with Barclays for a total of £4,000. Of these payments, £1,000 
was paid into Mr Ds account from payee 2, before it was sent back to payee 2. It doesnt 
appear that this particular payment caused Mr D any loss, however the exact circumstances 
around this payment are unclear. Either way, I dont think that this makes a difference to the 
outcome of the case as Ill explain below.
The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code)
Barclays has signed up to the CRM Code, which provides guidance on when a victim of a 
scam should be refunded. The starting position is that customers should get their money 
back, unless an exception applies. One such exception is where the customer didnt have a 
reasonable basis to believe that the payment was genuine.
The CRM Code doesnt apply to every payment. Specifically, it doesnt apply to payments 
which went to the customers own account. In this case, I believe that Mr D made payments 
into his own crypto wallet. The screenshots Mr D provided us with support this conclusion. 
So I dont think that the CRM Code can be applied here.But even if it did apply, I dont consider Mr D would be entitled to a refund under the CRM 
Code. I say this because I dont think that Mr D had a reasonable basis to believe that the 
payments were genuine. The returns were too good to be true; a no loss guarantee is 
unrealistic; there was no paperwork or investment agreement which is a basic element of 
any investment; and communication was done at least partially on WhatsApp - which is not a 
communication channel a genuine firm would use.
I also dont consider that Barclays had an obligation to provide any warnings at the time Mr 
D made the payments as I dont believe Barclays should have identified a fraud risk. Overall, 
this means that under the CRM Code, Mr D wouldnt be entitled to a refund even if it applied.
Could Barclays have prevented the scam?
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Barclays should fairly and reasonably have systems in place to monitor transactions in order 
to counter various risks, including to prevent fraud and scams. They dont have an obligation 
to provide financial education for investments though.
Ive considered whether Barclays should have flagged Mr Ds payments. But I dont think 
they had to. The payments were relatively low in value and theyre spread out over five days. 
Mr Ds bank statements also show that hes made many payments for similar and higher 
amounts in the past, including just before the scam payments. For example, Mr D made a 
payment of £2,650 days before the first scam transaction. He also made transfers of higher 
amounts than this, which means that the disputed payments wouldnt have stood out. The 
payments left Mr Ds account with a very low balance; but a low balance wasnt unusual for 
his account. Overall, the payments werent unusual compared to Mr Ds normal account 
activity and Barclays didnt have to step in here. Thats why I dont consider Barclays has to 
refund Mr D.
Could Barclays have done more to recover the funds?
Barclays has contacted the receiving banks within one hour of them being made aware of 
the scam and no funds could be recovered. So I cant say Barclays couldve done more 
here.
Mr D said that we should find out more information about the receiving accounts, specifically 
who the beneficiaries were. This information doesnt affect whether or not Barclays shouldve 
prevented the payments or refunded Mr D under the CRM Code so theres no need for this 
service to obtain this information. If Mr D would like this information because he wishes to 
attempt to recover his funds himself, he should make a request in writing to Barclays. 
Claims handling
Barclays has already paid Mr D £150 compensation for the way they handled his claim. This 
was because they didnt provide Mr D with an answer to his scam claim within the 
timescales set out in the CRM Code. Ive already said that Im not persuaded the CRM Code 
applies in this case. I consider the amount Barclays has already paid to Mr D exceeds any 
compensation award I would make and so Im not awarding any more compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman