DRN-1445584
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Assurant General Insurance Limited has proposed to settle his 
gadget insurance claim.  
What happened
In mid-2019, Mr B damaged his laptop screen so notified a claim on his Assurant gadget 
insurance policy. The laptop was deemed beyond economic repair by Assurant's engineers. 
It didn't have a suitable replacement in stock, so offered a cash settlement which it said was 
based on a laptop with a higher specification. Mr B wasn't satisfied with the amount offered, 
and said the model used for comparison was unsuitable as it wasn't from a "premium" range. 
He complained but Assurant wouldn't amend the settlement. So he referred the matter to us.
Our investigator thought Assurant's settlement was fair and in line with the terms of the 
policy. He pointed out that Mr B was covered for 'like for like' rather than 'new for old'. And 
he was satisfied that the cash settlement was based on a similar, but higher specification, 
model than Mr B's laptop. 
In response, Mr B provided links to laptops he'd found for sale online - including some which 
he said were of the same type and specification as his. But our investigator agreed with 
Assurant that this wasn't an exact comparison, noting the laptops Mr B found were used 
rather than refurbished and in varying conditions. And some were higher specification 
laptops. As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it. 
When Assurant accepts a damage claim (as it did here), the policy terms say it will repair the 
item or offer a replacement - of the same make and model if available, or of "equivalent 
specification" if not. This may be a remanufactured device. If a replacement can't be 
sourced, the terms say Assurant will contact the policy holder to discuss an "alternative 
claim settlement".
In Mr Bs case, Assurant offered a cash settlement as it couldn't repair the laptop or source a 
replacement.  Ive considered whether this was a suitable alternative. Assurant has 
explained that the amount wasn't directly based on Mr Bs laptop, as it was no longer in 
production and wasnt being sold by the online retailers it checked at the time. Instead, it was 
based on a laptop which it says has a higher specification. 
 
As Mr Bs laptop wasnt available with the online retailers Assurant checked, I consider it 
reasonable to base the settlement on another model so long as its of at least equivalent 
specification. I know Mr B feels strongly about the range and make of the laptop, but the policy makes no guarantees about this. Im satisfied Assurants model can fairly be 
described as of higher specification based on the key features typically used to compare 
this. 
I have considered the links Mr B provided. These are from a site which specialises in 
consumer-to-consumer sales and auctions and are generally second-hand. I agree with our 
investigator that this isnt a 'like for like' comparison, given that Assurants replacement 
wouldve been a new or refurbished device. And I wouldnt reasonably expect Assurant to 
use this site to purchase a laptop for Mr B or to base the settlement on. I say this because 
there are fewer protections from the manufacturer and quality controls when buying a used 
device from a site like this. I think it's prudent for Assurant to instead rely on the prices it 
found from the reputable online retailers it checked. 
The settlement matches the price of what Assurant wouldve provided as a replacement  
but gives Mr B more choice. He can use it to buy the model its suggested or put the money 
towards a different laptop  keeping the additional money if he buys a cheaper one, or 
supplementing with his own money if he wants a more expensive one. 
Overall, I'm satisfied Assurant has offered a fair and reasonable claim settlement in line with 
its obligation under the policy.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman