DRN-4318649
The complaint
Mr L1, Mr L2, Mr L3 and Mr L4 complain that American International Group UK Limited 
(AIG) declined a claim they made under their commercial property insurance policy.
Mr L1 has been the lead complainant and has also been represented. For simplicity, Ill refer 
to him only and call him Mr L.
Reference to AIG includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mr L got in touch with AIG in January 2022 after he noticed a crack on the building. It 
declined the claim without inspecting the damage. Based on photographs, it said the 
damage had been caused by subsidence, which wasnt covered by the policy.
In March 2022, a wall collapsed. Mr L took advice from an engineer who said the 
damage hadnt been caused by subsidence but was likely the result of a lack of 
structural support. AIG also took advice which reached the same conclusion. It 
thought the support was removed by 2005 and the wall had begun to bulge after that, 
leading to cracking and eventually its collapse.
AIG maintained the claim should be declined, for a number of reasons:
oA policy exclusion for damage caused by collapse or cracking of buildings.
oAnother exclusion for damage caused by gradual deterioration.
oA policy condition requiring Mr L to take precautions to prevent damage and 
maintain the building in a good state of repair.
oAnd to make good any damage as soon as possible after discovery.
oIt also said the damage began prior to the start of the policy in 2020.
oIt noted loss of rent was only covered if the damage giving rise to the loss of 
rent was itself covered.
Mr L didnt think AIG had dealt with things fairly. He thought the claim for damage 
and loss of rent should be covered. He also suggested that if AIG had initially 
inspected the damage and correctly identified the cause of the problem, the collapse 
could have been avoided.
AIG didnt change its position about the claim. And it said the claim had been 
correctly declined throughout, so it had no responsibility to investigate the cause of 
the problem further. It also noted it had advised Mr L to take advice from a structural 
engineer when it initially declined the claim.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said AIG had fairly 
declined the claim. And whilst she thought AIG should have done more initially, she 
wasnt persuaded that made a material difference to Mr L.
Mr L disagreed and made a number of points. In summary:
oHe hadnt been made aware of the problem until August 2021, when he was 
informed by the local council. So he couldnt have acted earlier.
oAIG should have inspected the damage initially. Had it done so, and accepted 
the claim, the collapse could have been avoided.
oHe questioned whether the damage was gradual deterioration, given the wall 
itself collapsed suddenly.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two key points to this claim  the decision to decline it and the way it was handled. 
Ill deal with each separately.
Claim decline
The policy covers material damage on an all risks basis. That means all damage is 
covered unless excluded by a policy term.
Theres no dispute the building suffered damage  a crack initially and then the 
collapse of a wall. That means the claim is covered unless AIG can show at least one 
policy term excludes this damage.
Mr L took advice from a chartered structural engineer. They inspected and said the 
collapse was caused by a loss of support to the first floor beams and roof purlins.
AIG appointed a loss adjuster. They inspected and said the collapse was likely 
caused by inadequate lateral restraint. They noted there used to be a single storey 
structure next to the wall, but it was removed by 2005. Without that structure  or 
sufficient strapping to hold the wall in place  the wall became vulnerable and 
eventually collapsed.
Both experts broadly agree on the cause of the problem, so Im satisfied the collapse 
was likely caused by a lack of support or restraint to the wall.
AIG has raised a number of policy terms. It only needs to show it would be fair to rely 
on one of them to decline the claim. Im satisfied its achieved that, so I wont 
comment on every term it raised  Ill focus on those I consider most relevant.
The policy doesnt cover damage caused by collapse or cracking of the buildings. 
Clearly thats what happened here. Had that been caused by some external factor  
such as subsidence, impact by a vehicle etc  then I may not find it fair to rely on 
such a broad exclusion. But here the building seems to have collapsed due to a 
weakness in its structure, so Im satisfied it would be fair for AIG to rely on this term.
Nor does the policy cover damage caused by gradual deterioration. Whilst I agree 
the collapse itself was sudden, the cause of it was likely to have been gradual in my view. The weakness in the structure identified by the experts existed for many years, 
well over a decade, before the collapse. So its likely that was gradually undermining 
the stability of the wall, causing a bulge, a crack and then the collapse. Theres no 
suggestion anything intervened suddenly and recently to cause the collapse.
I accept Mr L may not have been aware of the weakness in the structure. But a large 
crack and a bulge were visible for a period of time prior to the collapse. So I think its 
fair to say that ought reasonably have suggested a potential problem existed.
Overall, Im satisfied it would be fair for AIG to decline the claim by relying on these 
two policy exclusions. It follows that theres no cover under the policy for loss of rent 
either, as that only applies where the damage causing the loss of rent is covered.
Claim handling
When the damage was first reported, AIG said it would send a loss adjuster to 
inspect it. I think that would have been reasonable and in line with good industry 
practice for a problem of this nature. However, on the assumption the damage had 
been caused by subsidence, and because that isnt covered by the policy, it decided 
not to send the loss adjuster.
An all risks policy provides a wide range of cover. And the cracking could have been 
caused in numerous ways, not just by subsidence. So I dont think it was fair to make 
this assumption and cancel the loss adjuster as a result.
However, even if AIG had sent the loss adjuster in January, Im not satisfied that 
would have made a material difference. Ill explain why.
Its likely the loss adjuster would have made the same findings in January as they 
made later. So even with an earlier inspection, its likely the claim would have been 
declined for the reasons above. That would have left Mr L in materially the same 
position he found himself in  he had damage to the building but no cover for it under 
the policy and had to take steps to deal with it himself.
I havent seen anything to suggest that knowing the cause of the problem was a lack 
of support or restraint, rather than subsidence, would have changed what Mr L did 
next  or prevented the collapse. So whilst AIG could have handled things better, I 
dont think it had any tangible impact on Mr L. So I make no award for it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L, Mr L, Mr L 
and Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman