DRN-3694651
The complaint
Mr G complains that MBNA Limited irresponsibly gave him a credit card he couldnt afford to 
repay. 
What happened
In February 2016, Mr G applied for a credit card with MBNA. He was given an initial credit 
limit of £1,600. MBNA increased the limit to £2,400 in June 2016. 
Mr G complained to MBNA in late 2021 to say that it should never have given him the credit 
card or subsequent increase. He said that had MBNA completed appropriate affordability 
checks it would have seen that he couldnt afford to repay the credit. 
MBNA didnt uphold his complaint and said that it had completed adequate checks and 
those checks hadnt shown any affordability concerns. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said that at the time of the 
application Mr G already had £16,000 in available credit card limits elsewhere and had 
utilised over £12,000 of that already. She said that after taking into account essential living 
expenditure and sustainable monthly repayments towards the maximum possible credit card 
debt, it was clear the credit card MBNA were proposing to provide was unaffordable. 
MBNA didnt agree. It said that based on what Mr G had declared on his application form, he 
had an income of around £1,450 per month and it assumed he was a mortgage free 
homeowner. It estimated his essential living costs to be around £400 per month. It said that 
in working out Mr Gs credit commitments it calculated 3.5% of his current outstanding 
balance, which was around £430. It said Mr G therefore appeared to have more than enough 
disposable income to afford the credit card and subsequent increase.
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to giving Mr G credit, MBNA were required to complete affordability checks to ensure 
the credit wasnt going to cause Mr G financial difficulty and that he would be able to afford 
the repay all of the proposed credit in a reasonable period of time. There isnt a set list of 
checks that MBNA needed to complete but it needed to ensure the checks it did were 
proportionate in the circumstances. What is considered proportionate will vary in each case 
and in deciding what was proportionate MBNA would have had to take into account things 
such as (but not limited to): The amount of credit, the interest rate and Mr Gs specific 
circumstances. 
MBNA says that Mr G declared an annual income of £19,000 which it calculated to be 
around £1,450 per month. It said that it estimated his monthly essential living expenses at 
around £400 and his credit repayments at around £430. However, I dont think it was 
reasonable for MBNA to assume credit repayments of just £430 per month. 
MBNA says that figure was calculated by taking 3.5% of Mr Gs current outstanding credit 
card debt. It says this percentage is higher than the usual minimum repayment on a credit 
card. While that might be true, I dont think that adequately ensures MBNA has considered 
the affordability and sustainability of the new credit it was proposing to provide Mr G. 
I say this because MBNAs calculations dont take into consideration that Mr G already had 
access to unsecured credit that was greater than his current outstanding balance. So, it was 
possible that even later on that day he could have been indebted by around another £3,500. 
MBNA needed to take into consideration everything it knew about Mr Gs circumstances 
when assessing affordability, that included thinking about any reasonably foreseeable 
changes in his expenditure  such as increased indebtedness on credit MBNA knew he had 
access to.
But even if it was reasonable for MBNA to just take into consideration his current 
indebtedness on revolving credit facilities, a further problem with MBNAs calculation of 3.5% 
of the balance is that it doesnt in Mr Gs specific circumstances demonstrate he would be 
repaying his credit in a reasonable period of time. This was something else MBNA needed to 
be mindful of when assessing affordability and sustainability. 
I accept that in some circumstances 3.5% might be a reasonable calculation to apply, but 
here it wasnt. This is because at 3.5% of his current balance, it would have taken Mr G in 
the region of 21 years to pay back the borrowing (assuming his existing credit cards were at 
a similar interest rate to his MBNA card). I dont consider that to be a reasonable period of 
time for repayment of his unsecured credit commitments. 
MBNA needed to consider whether Mr G could afford to pay back this new credit card and 
his existing credit card debt within a reasonable period of time and whether he could afford 
to do so sustainably. MBNA therefore ought to have considered whether Mr G could afford to 
spend significantly more each month than the £430 it had calculated towards existing credit 
commitments, and also considered what sustainable repayments towards a further debt of 
£1,600 would be. 
This means that Mr G would have likely had to use around two thirds of his monthly income 
to sustainably pay back the credit card debt in a reasonable period of time. Taking into 
account what Ive seen of his circumstances (and what I think reasonable enquiries at the 
time by MBNA ought to have uncovered), I dont consider that would have left him with 
sufficient disposable income to cover his essential living costs and/or to cover any 
unexpected emergency costs that may have arisen. For this reason, I think MBNA acted 
unfairly in giving Mr G the credit card and subsequent limit increase.
To put things right, I dont think its fair that Mr G should have to pay any interest and 
charges on the amounts he borrowed. However, as he has had the benefit of the money he 
spent on the credit card, he should pay that back. MBNA should therefore re-work the credit 
card account to remove any interest, fees and charges it has added. Once the capital has 
been repaid, MBNA should also remove any adverse information it has recorded on his 
credit file in relation to this account. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct MBNA Limited to:
Re-work the credit card to remove all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already refunded). 
If after the re-work Mr G has paid back more than he borrowed, MBNA should refund 
any overpayments to Mr G, adding 8% simple interest on any refunds from the date 
of each overpayment to the date of settlement. It should also remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Gs credit file. 
If after the re-work there is still a balance outstanding, MBNA should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan for the outstanding amount. Once the capital amount 
borrowed has been repaid, MBNA should remove any adverse information from 
Mr Gs credit file. 
If MBNA considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award it should 
provide Mr G with a certificate showing how much it has taken off, so he can reclaim that 
amount, if he is eligible to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman