DRN-3831817
The complaint
Mr K complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a personal possessions claim 
he made on a home insurance policy.
Mr K is represented by his solicitor.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I havent set it out in detail 
here. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key events.
In December 2021, Mr K made a claim on his home insurance policy, following the loss of a 
designer watch and high-value ring. Mr K believed hed left the items of jewellery in pre-
booked accommodation after hed checked-out. He said hed called the accommodation 
provider to check whether the jewellery had been found. But hed been told that despite two 
members of staff checking the accommodation, the jewellery hadnt been located.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to investigate Mr Ks claim. The loss adjuster interviewed Mr 
K, who maintained that the last time the jewellery had been seen was on a surface in the 
accommodations kitchen. The loss adjuster also interviewed one of the accommodations 
members of staff, whod checked whether the jewellery was in the accommodation after Mr 
K checked-out. The staff member stated that nothing had been found in the accommodation 
and that key-card tracing confirmed that no-one else had accessed the room between Mr Ks 
check-out and the staff members search for the jewellery. They also told the loss adjuster 
that none of the housekeeping staff had found the items whilst subsequently cleaning the 
accommodation. The loss adjuster noted that Mr K had concerns that the staff at the 
accommodation could have found the lost items and kept them.
The loss adjuster and AXAs jewellery specialist had some concerns about the loss. 
Specifically, given Mr K had maintained the jewellery had last been seen in the 
accommodation (and usually only took his watch off at work), they questioned why the items 
were no longer in the apartment after Mr K had checked-out. The loss adjuster also had 
some concerns about the timeline of events Mr K had provided  and the time of the loss 
which had been recorded by the Police. And both the adjuster and jewellery specialist 
queried why, given the relative proximity of Mr Ks home to the accommodation, he hadnt 
returned to the accommodation once he noticed he wasnt wearing the watch.
Based on the loss adjusters findings, AXA turned down Mr Ks claim. Thats because it said 
it wasnt satisfied the loss had happened in the way Mr K had said.
Mr K was unhappy with AXAs decision and his representative asked us to look into Mr Ks 
complaint. He said that the last place he remembered seeing the watch and ring was in the 
accommodation. But that it was possible, given the circumstances at the time, that hed 
picked them up when taking his luggage to his car and had dropped them without noticing.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. Briefly, she didnt think it had 
been unfair for AXA to have concerns about whether Mr K had a valid claim on the policy.
Mr K disagreed and Ive summarised his representatives comments. Mr K didnt feel that the 
investigator had correctly considered all of the evidence. They said Mr K wasnt claiming that 
the loss or theft had happened at the accommodation, as this was something he simply 
didnt know. All that he could say for certain was that the accommodation was the last place 
he saw the items. Mr K felt there was discrepancies in the timeline of events the investigator 
had referred to, which the representative felt to be significant. Mr K had decided not to return 
to the accommodation, due to his family situation and as it was a busy day. Hed checked his 
luggage later that day for the items but couldnt find them and so had logged the loss with 
the Police. The representative argued that the policy didnt require the location of a loss or 
theft to be provided in order for a claim to be paid.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr K, I think it was fair for AXA to turn 
down his claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Ks policy and the available evidence, to decide whether I think AXA treated 
him fairly.
It's a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. As such, its a policyholders responsibility to show theyve suffered a loss 
which is covered by the terms of the policy; that they owned the items they claimed for; and 
that the loss or damage happened in the way they said. Often, an insurer will appoint a loss 
adjuster to investigate claims on a policyholders behalf  and thats what happened here.
The terms of Mr Ks policy do cover the loss or theft of personal possessions. And AXA 
acknowledges that Mr K has provided sufficient proof of ownership of the items he claimed 
for. However, AXA has turned down Mr Ks claim, as it isnt persuaded that the loss 
happened in the way he said. So Ive considered all of the evidence, and in particular, Mr Ks 
original and subsequent testimony; and the accommodation staffs statement, to decide 
whether this was a fair conclusion for AXA to draw.
Generally, I think its fair for an insurer to place more weight on the contemporaneous 
evidence theyre given at the time a claim is made. That means, in this case, I think it was 
fair for AXA to rely on the testimony Mr K provided when he first made the claim. AXAs 
claims notes show that when Mr K told it about the claim, he said the items had been left on 
a kitchen worktop. And that the loss had been noted after he and his family left the 
accommodation. This version of events is broadly mirrored in the witness statement Mr K 
gave the loss adjuster, which he signed. 
Mr Ks statement says (albeit mainly in my own words) that on arrival at the accommodation, 
he placed the ring and watch on a kitchen worktop. He and his partner had last seen the 
items the following morning. After leaving the apartment, hed driven to see family and then 
had begun to drive home. Around 45 minutes into the drive, at around 3pm, hed noticed his 
watch was missing and hed asked his partner to contact the accommodation provider. 
Theyd continued to drive on to his partners family home for a meal and then had arrived 
back to their house at around 9pm. Theyd searched their luggage and couldnt find the 
watch or ring. Mr K reiterated that:I believe that the watch and ring were left in the apartmentI have been asked whether we 
checked the apartment to see if anything had been left behind before leaving and can 
confirm that our focus was ongetting our belongings into the car
I can comment that I still believe that the items were left at the apartment and it is possible 
that the members of staff found my jewellery and kept them for themselves.
During the life of the claim, Mr K reiterated by email that he believed the items had been left 
in the apartment. When the claim was turned down, Mr K emailed the loss adjuster and 
stated: 
This is absolutely ridiculous. Basically what the insurer are (sic) saying is they believe the 
hotel staff words over ours.
While I appreciate Mr K now questions whether, in fact, the items were dropped on the way 
to the car, I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to rely on the version of events he gave 
it both at the outset and over the course of the next few months. And it seems to me that 
even at the time the claim was declined, Mr K still appeared to maintain that the items had 
been left in the accommodation, rather than suggesting that, in fact, the jewellery could have 
been picked-up and dropped on the way to the car.
Bearing in mind Mr Ks initial testimony, I think it was appropriate and reasonable for AXA to 
undertake further enquiries with the accommodation provider  and in particular, with one of 
the members of staff whod searched the room. They too provided a signed witness 
statement. In brief, the staff member said:
No-one had been in the room after they checked out as there was limited staff, no-one had 
even been in to clean the roomA call was then received by meadvising they had left the 
items behind in the kitchen of the apartmentWe were able to check and confirm if anything 
had been left behindWe sent a member of housekeepingand myself (due to the value of 
the items) to check the room at 14.39 and I confirm after doing so, the items were not in the 
apartment they stayed inHaving checked our records/system I can confirm that since the 
guests checked outno-one had entered the apartment again until myself (and staff 
member) entered to look for the items.
The staff member also explained that key cards had trackers to confirm when rooms were 
accessed and whether by staff or customers. It was those key card records which showed 
that no-one had entered Mr Ks accommodation between the point he checked-out and the 
staff members search for his items.
Based on the accommodation providers evidence, AXA concluded that Mr K couldnt have 
left the items on the kitchen worktop. Thats because, if hed done so, the items wouldve 
been found when the staff went in to search for them. And there appeared to be no 
unauthorised access to the room between check-out and the search. I dont think this was an 
unfair conclusion for it to reach.
AXA had further concerns too. One concern was that the Police report stated that Mr K had 
lost the items between 12.30 and 1pm. This timeframe was over an hour after Mr K had 
checked-out of the accommodation and over one and half hours before it appears his 
partner contacted the accommodation provider. AXA also queried why, given the relative 
proximity of Mr Ks home to the accommodation (around 80 miles) and given the high value 
of the items, Mr K hadnt returned to the accommodation to look for them himself, rather than 
continuing to drive home. While Ive considered Mr Ks comments on these points, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for AXA to have concerns around these issues, taken in 
conjunction with its conclusion that Mr K hadnt shown hed suffered the loss in the way hed described.
I do sympathise with Mr Ks position because I appreciate the items were of high monetary 
and sentimental value. But in my view, AXA investigated Mr Ks claim promptly and in an 
appropriate way. I dont think it was unreasonable, based on the evidence it had available, 
for AXA to conclude that Mr K hadnt shown hed suffered a loss in the way he said he had. 
Neither has Mr K provided any persuasive evidence which would indicate that the items 
were stolen from the accommodation. Its open to him to report the matter to the Police 
should he remain concerned that the items may have been stolen and to update AXA about 
any such step. Overall though, on the evidence before me, I dont think it was unfair for AXA 
to decide that Mr K hasnt shown he has a valid claim on his policy. And therefore, I find that 
it was fair and reasonable for AXA to turn Mr Ks claim down.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman