DRN-3576632
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say that they were misled into buying a timeshare arrangement while they 
were on holiday in Florida in 2015. Because the purchase was funded in part using Ms Ms 
credit card, issued by MBNA Limited, she says that she has a claim against it in the same 
way as she has a claim against the seller of the timeshare.
What happened
The information I have about the background to this complaint is not at all detailed and is 
largely unsupported by documents. Given the nature of the complaint  concerning as it 
does the sale and purchase of rights to occupy real property, a formal indenture and a loan  
that is rather surprising.
It is not in dispute is that Mr and Ms M bought a timeshare product in Florida in October 
2015. It also appears that Ms M has made payments in connection with that timeshare using 
her MBNA credit card.
In early 2018 Ms M contacted MBNA to say that she thought she and Mr M had been misled 
about the timeshare. And, since she had used a credit card to fund the purchase, the effect 
of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that she has a claim against MBNA in 
the same way as she has a claim against the seller.
MBNAs response to the claim was to say that it did not believe section 75 applied in this 
case. When the matter was referred to this service, our investigator concluded that, whilst Mr 
and Ms M may not have understood what they were buying, that was not because of 
anything misleading they had been told. Mr and Ms Ms representatives asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
I reviewed the case and issued a provisional decision. I explained that I was doing so to give 
the parties an opportunity to clarify the complaint and to provide further evidence. I noted 
that, because she was the cardholder, only Ms M could bring the complaint. I continued:
One effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring that 
claim against a creditor. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the creditor and the supplier.
As I have indicated, we have not been provided with as much documentation as I would 
have expected in this case. Crucially, the timeshare agreement itself is missing. So, it is not 
clear to me at this stage what exactly Mr and Ms M agreed to buy, on what terms or even 
from whom they agreed to buy it.
It is significant however that Ms Ms MBNA credit card statements do not show any 
payments which might be linked to the purchase of a timeshare until some time later, when 
monthly payments of US$121.69 were made. There were however payments from a different 
credit card, issued by a different bank, at the time of the purchase.
There is some documentation indicating that an indenture was taken out in respect of the 
timeshare property and that this was linked to a loan to a company, apparently connected to 
the timeshare resort. Card payments appear to have been made to this company.
My present view however is that I am not persuaded that the purchase of the timeshare was 
financed by any credit card payment using Ms Ms MBNA credit card. It does appear that 
some loan payments were made using the credit card, but if that is correct those payments 
financed the loan agreement, not the timeshare purchase. In such circumstances, I do not 
believe that section 75 would apply.
If however I were to reach a different view on that point, I would need to consider what 
claims, if any, Ms M has against the seller. Is it likely that she has a claim for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation? She has not suggested that she has a claim for breach of 
contract; rather, her claim is that she and her husband were misled into buying the 
timeshare.
In English law, a misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, 
made by one party to a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which induces the other 
party into the contract.
It is very likely however that the timeshare contract here was governed by Florida law, since 
it concerned rights over real property in Florida. So, in order to uphold Ms Ms complaint 
about MBNA, I would need to consider whether she is likely to have a claim under that law 
and whether  and if so, to what extent  the governing law of the contract differs from 
English law. I have seen no representations on that issue, but it remains open to the parties 
to make further submissions, should they want to do so.
My current view is that there is simply insufficient evidence on which I can make a decision 
which is fair and reasonable. That means that, on the basis of what Ive seen so far, I cannot 
properly uphold Ms Ms complaint. But it remains open to the parties  and in particular to 
Ms M and those representing her  to provide more so that I can get a better picture of the 
contractual arrangements and the precise nature of the allegations against the seller of the 
timeshare. 
Ms Ms representatives said that she did not accept my provisional decision. They said that 
section 75 did apply because the loan was provided by the seller and loan repayments were 
made with Ms Ms credit card. 
They also repeated that their clients had been pressured into buying the timeshare and had 
been told that it could be handed back at any time, given the high demand for timeshares in 
Florida. They said too that their clients were not told that the contract was in perpetuity or 
that they would have to pay maintenance fees for the foreseeable future. They did not 
however provide any further documentation to do with the sale.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I am not persuaded that section 75 applies here. The card payments did not directly fund the 
contract for the sale and purchase of the timeshare. That contract was financed by a loan 
provided by the seller, not by credit provided by MBNA. 
Be that as it may, I went on in my provisional decision to consider what the position might be 
if I were to take a different view on the application of section 75. I noted that the timeshare 
contract was likely to be governed by the laws of Florida, and I invited further submissions 
on it. I have not received any, but have assumed that Florida recognises claims in 
misrepresentation in much the same way as English law does. 
I also noted that I had not been provided with a copy of a timeshare contract. Since a claim 
in misrepresentation requires that the claimant was misled about a contract, assessing such 
a claim generally requires a review of the contract itself. MBNA did receive copies of some 
documents, including a Travel Partner Agreement, a Sales Agents Statement of Exemption, 
a tax form, information about a Mortgage Modification and notification of unpaid 
maintenance fees. It was not clear however how any of those documents relate to Ms Ms 
complaint about the mis-sale of a timeshare.     
In court proceedings, it is generally necessary for a person who makes an allegation to 
prove it and, in civil proceedings, to do so on the balance of probabilities. I am not bound by 
the same laws of evidence as a court would be, of course. Nevertheless, Ms Ms complaint 
about MBNA stems from her dealings with a third party. MBNA was not directly involved, so I 
dont think it is unreasonable to look to Ms M to provide evidence of her claim. 
I am afraid however that the evidence that has been provided falls some way short of what I 
would need to be able to uphold Ms Ms complaint.          
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that  I do not require MBNA Limited to do anything 
more to resolve Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman