DRN-2594397
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
In September 2018 Mr and Mrs B booked a holiday for March 2019 and took out an annual
travel insurance policy with UKI. Mrs B declared arthritis as a pre-existing medical condition
but UKI didnt agree to cover the condition, so it was excluded from the policy.
In November 2018 Mrs B consulted her GP as she was experiencing back pain. In January
2019 Mrs B says she had an accident at work which led to her being signed off work. She
was later diagnosed with a prolapsed disc.
Mr and Mrs B cancelled the holiday in March 2019 and claimed on their travel insurance
policy. Mrs B says by this point she was in pain even walking around the house and so the
holiday they had planned wouldnt have been possible as it involved lots of walking. Mrs B
underwent surgery for the prolapsed disc in May 2019.
UKI declined the claim on the basis that the claim was linked to her pre-existing condition
which theyd declined to cover. Mrs B disagreed and said that this was a new condition,
related to an injury at work. UKI maintained their decision to decline the claim so Mr and
Mrs B made a complaint to our service. Mrs B provided evidence from her consultant who
said that the disc prolapse was a new condition.
In February 2021 I issued a provisional decision. In summary, I said that I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I said that Mrs B had a number of consultations for back 
pain and sciatica from January 2011 onwards. That included consultations in November 
2018. Mrs Bs GP also said that her back-pain symptoms worsened at that time. I explained 
that there had been further appointments after Mrs Bs accident but that there wasnt 
independent evidence about the accident or confirmation that it caused the back problems 
which led to the holiday being cancelled. I asked UKI and Mr and Mrs B to let me know if 
they had anything further to add. 
UKI didnt have any further comments to add. Mr and Mrs B responded to say that financial 
recompense wasnt the most important outcome in this situation, but Mrs Bs health. They 
explained that initially they accepted UKIs response but that reflected on things when they 
received an unexpected letter from Mrs Bs consultant. They pointed out that his letter 
referred to a new condition and that the reason for the claim was unforeseen. Finally, they 
said that Mrs B was now able to walk several miles a day, which was a vast improvement in 
her condition. 
So I now need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision UKI has a responsibility to handle claims promptly 
and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The further comments from Mr and Mrs B havent changed my thoughts about the outcome 
of this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
I appreciate that the consultant referred to a new condition. But I dont think theres sufficient 
evidence in the letter to demonstrate that the diagnosis was unconnected to her arthritis. As I 
mentioned in my provisional decision the letter doesnt expand on the cause or the 
symptoms of the condition. 
I think Mrs B had appropriately declared her medical conditions to UKI. But theyd declined 
to offer cover for claims relating arthritis. Mrs B had consulted her GP in November 2018, 
before her accident, for back pain. And her GP considered that her symptoms got worse 
from that point. So, I dont think I can fairly conclude that the accident was the sole cause of 
the problems which led to the holiday being cancelled. Thats because the evidence 
suggests she was having worsening back pain before the accident. 
Mrs B had declared a pre-existing condition of arthritis, and the evidence doesnt suggest 
that the back pain was caused by the accident alone. So, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for UKI to decline the claim on the basis that the claim was connected to the pre-existing 
condition they had declined to cover.
Im pleased to hear that Mrs B has made a good recovery from the surgery. However, whilst 
I understand Mr and Mrs Bs disappointment, Im not upholding this complaint. 
 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman