DRN-2438930
The complaint
 Mr R complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (ISIL) didnt place a monthly 
regular investment for him when it should have done.
What happened
 Mr R has an account with ISIL into which he pays a monthly subscription which is used to 
place a regular investment on his behalf on the third Wednesday of each month. ISIL also 
offer a facility with the account that allows him to make ad-hoc purchases of shares without 
needing to have the money in his account at the time of the trade - which it refers to as the 
Personal Trading Limit (PTL). This allows the client to choose one of four settlement dates 
for purchases, the longest being T+20.
ISIL did not place the regular investment due to be made on 21 August 2019 and in 
response to the complaint Mr R made about this it explained this was because his account 
was in deficit at the time.
Mr R said the PTL facility and the regular investment are separate and that he pays the 
monthly subscription for the regular investment to make sure this doesnt fail and that he 
settles trades on the PTL before the expiry date.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said 
that Mr R had pointed out that he knows when he doesnt have enough funds because ISIL 
applies a £25 late payment fee which it didnt do in August 2019.
 
She also said that when Mr R had telephoned ISIL on 21 August 2019, he hadnt been told 
there wasnt enough cash in the account and that other regular investment transactions in 
previous months had gone ahead when he had a negative balance.
ISIL didnt agree with the investigator. In short, it made the following points:
The late payment fee is only charged if payment isnt made by the settlement date.
Mr R purchased 300 shares on 5 August 2019 with settlement due at T+20 so this 
would have been an open position until 3 September 2019. It said that he sold the 
shares on 21 August 2019 with settlement on T+8 so the trades net off against each 
other as the settlement date for both trades was the same.
There is only a single cash pot for both Mr Rs regular investment and his ad-hoc 
trades, and he must have a positive cash balance for his regular investment as the 
PTL only applies to his ad-hoc trades.
Mr R has on occasion been able to successfully place his regular investment when 
there hasnt been a positive cash balance, but this doesnt set a precedent or 
override the requirement to have a positive cash balance to place his regular 
investment.
The investigator considered the points made by ISIL, but she still thought it should pay Mr R 
£200 for trouble and upset caused. She said that it wasnt clear when there was enough 
cash available for the regular investment, as ad-hoc purchases using the PTL are shown as 
pending negative balances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the investigator that this complaint should be upheld. It isnt 
clear from the information I have seen that the reason Mr Rs regular investment wasnt 
successful was because he didnt have cleared funds. Even if that was the reason, Im not 
satisfied that ISIL provided Mr R with clear information as to how his account operated. 
I note Mr R has referred to having two accounts but there was only one account within which 
he made a regular subscription for his regular investment instruction and was also was able 
to make ad-hoc purchases with the benefit of the PTL.
ISILs terms of service include the following:
 7.8 We will carry out your Regular Investment Instructions on the Purchase Date in the 
order that you inform us to the value of the Cleared Funds in your Account. We will not be 
able to carry out your Total Investment instruction if the Cleared Funds in your account are 
less that your Total Monthly Investment Subscription on a Purchase Date. We accept no 
liability or responsibility for any loss that is alleged to be caused by a Regular Investment 
Instruction not being carried out in these circumstances.
Cleared funds are defined in the terms of service as being cash in the account due from a 
sale of investments that have settled or the crediting of funds by credit or debit card that has 
cleared the banking process. But I dont think this would necessarily have put Mr R on notice 
that where there was a pending purchase under the PTL service that wasnt due to settle 
until after the regular investment this would be taken into account in determining what 
cleared funds were available.
From what ISIL has said the deficit in the cash account takes account of ad-hoc purchases 
made using the PTL facility. However, if there is a corresponding sale of the stock in 
question this will in effect cancel out the debit resulting from the purchase on the trade date 
of the sale. 
So, on that basis, where there is a purchase and no corresponding sale at the time the 
regular investment instruction is due to be placed this can leave the cash account in deficit, 
and the regular investment will not go ahead. This is the position ISIL says Mr R was in on 
21 August 2019.
I think it is clear Mr R didnt understand this and I am not satisfied that ISIL provided clear 
information to him as to how the use of the PTL service affected the cash account and could 
impact on his regular investment instruction. From what I have seen clients were 
encouraged to use the PTL service.
I have seen a template letter sent to customers encouraging its use and explaining the 
benefits of the service, namely not needing to have the money available for the trade on the 
trade date, only on the settlement date. It also explained this wasnt a credit facility because 
the client needed to have the cash available on the settlement date.
I have seen nothing that made clear although the money for a PTL trade only needed to be 
available at the time of settlement for that trade, it would still be taken into account when 
determining whether the account was in credit for the purposes of the regular investment.In the circumstances it isnt surprising that Mr R didnt appreciate that having purchases 
using the PTL service that hadnt settled would affect his regular investment instruction. I 
have also seen no other information which made clear the interaction between the PTL and 
the regular subscription. 
I am reinforced in my view that ISIL didnt provide clear information by the calls that took 
place on 21 August 2019 when Mr R was trying to find out what was going on. He spoke to 
three different people on that day and was provided with conflicting information as to what 
had happened. If the way the account worked was clear I can see no reason he wasnt given 
a consistent explanation of what had happened.
The first person he spoke to told him the trade hadnt been placed because his cash account 
was in debit, in line with the argument ISIL has put forward in this complaint. Mr R told the 
speaker she didnt know what she was talking about and asked to speak to someone else. 
He was then told by another employee the trade was going ahead and then finally told the 
issue was to do with him having amended the trade the day before - with no reference as to 
his cash account being in deficit or him not having enough cleared funds.
Given ISILs own employees were unable to provide a clear explanation as to what was 
happening with his account on the day, Im not persuaded it is reasonable to have expected 
Mr R to have understood what had happened and how ISIL was operating his account.
The account also doesnt seem to have always worked in the way that ISIL has suggested 
anyway. I have seen a statement for Mr Rs account for the period 6 April 2019 to 30 June 
2019 which shows that his regular investment went ahead in April 2019 and May 2019 
despite his account seemingly being in deficit at the time due to open trades made using the 
PTL service. 
The same can be seen in the statement I have seen for 1 July 2019 to 30 September 2019. 
This again shows his regular investment was placed on 17 July 2019 when he appears to 
have had a negative cash balance, and again on 18 September 2019 - after the failed trade 
in August 2019 the subject of this complaint.
ISIL has said these transactions didnt set a precedent. But if the account operated in the 
way ISIL has said it did, I would expect it to operate that way consistently. The fact it didnt 
suggests a much more ad-hoc approach to the operation of the account. This reinforces my 
view that the operation of his account wasnt made clear.
This is further reinforced by an email to us from ISIL dated 25 June 2020 in response to a 
query about how Mr R had been able to make his regular investment previously when he 
had a negative cash balance. ISIL provided a transaction history that was different to the 
history it had provided previously. ISIL stated:
As investments have a transaction date and a settlement date. A running cash balance can 
be viewed from two viewpoints. When viewing transactions in the order they were initiated 
this will consider the cash movement at that time, even if settlement had been selected for a 
future date such as T+20. Based on the clients activity this can seem to show that the client 
has a negative cash balance as it will account for the cash movement on the transaction 
date, not when it actually leaves or enters the account on the settlement date.
I note ISIL has said the cash balance can be viewed from two viewpoints, so immediately 
this raises the possibility of confusion. It has also used the words seems to show that the 
client had a negative cash balance suggesting this doesnt show what the real position is. 
The email also enclosed a transaction summary with transactions shown by settlement date 
and the writer goes on to state:here you can see the actual (my emphasis) cash balance in the clients account upon 
regular investment date was positive.
This transaction summary shows that the cash account was positive in April, May, June and 
August of 2019 which isnt consistent with what is shown by the statements and other 
evidence I have seen.
For the regular investment that should have been placed in August 2019 the summary 
shows that Mr R had a positive cash balance of £38. I think it is also of note that the 
transaction history shows a deficit of £-361 on 13 August which was dealt with by a credit to 
the account of £365 the same day with a further payment of £35 on 20 August 2019 to bring 
the account to £38 in credit just before the regular investment date. It appears from this that 
Mr R was taking account of, and reacting to, what is shown in the transaction history to keep 
the account  so he thought  in credit. 
Mr R also referred to the figure of £38 in one of the calls he made to ISIL on 21 August 2019 
when he was querying why the trade based on his regular investment instruction wasnt 
visible, which suggests that the information he was looking at showed his account was in 
credit.
In summary Im not persuaded on the evidence that IISL shouldnt have gone ahead with the 
regular investment in August 2019 as there is some evidence that suggests that the account 
was showing as being in credit. If I am wrong about that, Im not persuaded that the account 
operated in the way that IISL has said - given it didnt operate that way consistently  such 
that it should have been treated as being in deficit. Even if I am wrong about that and the 
account did operate as IISL has said, Im not satisfied it provided clear information to Mr R 
as to this in any event. 
Putting things right
 It is clear from the telephone calls he made that Mr R was frustrated and annoyed with what 
had happened and the different explanations he was given. I think he was also left with the 
impression that there wasnt an issue and I think he will have suffered some additional 
distress when he later realised the trade hadnt been made contrary to what he thought was 
going to happen. In the circumstances I agree with the investigator that ISIL should pay £200 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. Interactive Investor Services 
Limited must pay Mr R £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman