DRN-3773550
The complaint
Mr S complained that his claim for theft was unfairly settled under his car policy with 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage).
What happened
Mr S made a claim to Advantage when during the night his car was stolen from outside his 
house. He said he was only given one set of keys when he purchased the car. Mr S provided 
evidence that he still retained these keys after the theft, so said the car had been stolen 
without the use of his keys.
The car was recovered by the Police, but when Advantage had its engineer validate the 
damage on the car, it said the car was beyond economic repair. As part of its claim 
validation, Advantage had the car inspected by a third-party expert specialising in theft 
claims. The expert said there was no physical evidence that there had been forced entry to 
the car. In addition, it identified that two keys were programmed to the car. The expert said 
the only way the vehicle could have been taken is by using a key that is both mechanically 
and electronically programmed to the vehicle.
Based upon the evidence provided by the expert Advantage declined the claim. Its expert 
determined that the vehicle could not have been taken in the way in which [Mr S] described, 
as a key must have been used to take the vehicle. Advantage said it would seek to recover 
any costs related to the claim from Mr S (e.g. storage costs for the vehicle). 
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. Whilst he thought Advantage had been 
thorough in its investigations, he thought it shouldve done more to understand what was the 
last date that the key in Mr S possession was used to operate the car. He didnt think 
Advantage had done enough to prove the claim should be declined, so he said the claim 
should be settled in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. He added 8% 
simple interest per annum to this (from the date of the loss to the settlement date) to 
compensate Mr S for the time hes been without this money. Advantage disagreed, so the 
case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage provided additional commentary when it declined the claim. It said I am unable 
to uphold your complaint as I can confirm that we have followed the correct process. Once 
your vehicle was recovered, we arranged an independent engineer to complete a physical 
assessment of your vehicle, as well as an ECU interrogation to assist in our validation 
process. When completing the ECU interrogation, it was identified that the vehicle has 2 
keys programmed to it and due to the type of vehicle, the only way the vehicle could have 
been taken is by using a key that is both mechanically and electronically programmed to 
your vehicle. This is further evidenced from the physical inspection, which has confirmed that 
there is no sign of forced entry, and all locks and steering locks were intact at the time of the 
inspection.
Advantage declined the claim as it said the vehicle couldnt have been taken in the way Mr S 
described. It said a key mustve been used to steal the vehicle. So, I have considered 
whether Advantage has been reasonable to decline the claim on this basis. 
I think Mr S version of events has been consistent throughout the claim. He said when he 
bought his vehicle he was only provided with one key. He has maintained this stance 
throughout his claim. Mr S car was over 10 years old, so I dont think its unusual that he 
only had one key for his car. And I dont think Mr S has ever tried to explain how the theft 
occurred  he simply reported the car stolen from his drive during the night.
I dont think Advantage have provided any evidence to suggest Mr S has altered his version 
of events during the claim. Advantage has explained that the insurance product was bought 
online, and no telephone conversation was needed at the time of the policy inception. It said, 
we wouldnt ask Mr S to confirm how many keys they had at inception. I dont think its fair 
to say Mr S changed his account when Advantage hadnt collected this information from Mr 
S when the policy was taken out.
Often when a vehicle is stolen, a Police report is issued or requested by the insurer to 
explain the circumstances of the theft and this may sometimes help to highlight any 
inconsistencies in the claim. Advantage have said that a Police report wasnt applied for but 
have indicated it had received a confirmation the vehicle had been reported stolen. So, I 
dont think Advantage have provided any evidence to show Mr S has changed what he said.
The stolen vehicle was recovered, and Advantage carried out physical checks of the vehicle 
and an ECU interrogation. It concluded there hadnt been a forced entry to the vehicle. 
However, Mr S has consistently said he only had one key and has evidenced he still had 
possession of that key after the theft. I think Advantage shouldve done more to investigate 
this. I think it shouldve examined when Mr S key was last used and this would have 
determined whether the car was stolen with Mr S's key, or the key he never had. In the 
absence of this, I can't be satisfied that Advantage's conclusions are fair. Therefore, I uphold 
this complaint, as I dont think Advantage have fully supported its reasoning for declining the 
claim. It cant be sure, Mr S key was used in the theft. I think it needed to provide more 
evidence to support its decision.
In order to put Mr S back in the position he was before the car was stolen, I require 
Advantage to settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions (including 
dropping any claim against Mr S for costs it has incurred during the claim). As Mr S has 
been without this settlement, I require Advantage to add 8% simple interest per annum to the 
settlement amount from the date of the claim to the date the claim is settled.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to:
Settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions (including dropping 
any claim against Mr S for costs it has incurred during the claim).
Add 8% simple interest* per annum to the settlement amount from the date of the 
claim to the date the claim is settled.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Advantage Insurance Company Limited to take off tax 
from this interest. Advantage must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if 
Mr S asks for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman