DRN-4341986
The complaint
Miss H has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE unfairly cancelled her pet insurance 
policy.
What happened
Miss H took out a policy with HDI for her dog and set up a monthly direct debit to pay the 
premium in instalments which were due on the 23rd of each month.
When HDI attempted to take the payment on 21 March 2023, the payment was rejected. It 
reapplied for the payment on 24 March and the payment was rejected again by Miss Hs 
bank.
HDI said it emailed Miss H on 31 March, giving her seven days notice to pay the 
outstanding payment. As HDI didnt receive a response, it emailed her again on 11 April to 
tell her that the policy had been cancelled. On 17 April HDI sent a text message to Miss H 
about the outstanding premium payable for the policy. Following that message Miss H found 
the emails from HDI in her spam folder. Its not in dispute that the emails hadnt been 
opened until 17 April.
Miss H tried to persuade HDI to reinstate the policy after paying the premium instalment that 
had been outstanding. It refused to do so. This caused Miss H a degree of concern as she 
wanted to make claims under the policy and her dog had pre-existing conditions for which it 
would be hard to get cover with another insurer.
She brought a complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I 
wasnt minded to uphold her complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
Theres no dispute that Miss H defaulted on her payment as her direct debit was returned. 
As with all insurance policies, Miss H needed to pay her premiums in order to have cover. 
The terms of the policy state that HDI can cancel the policy if there are serious grounds to 
do so, for example:
1. Where we have been unable to collect a premium payment (payment terms including 
the procedures in the event of non-payment of the premium will have been agreed 
between you and us when you took out this policy).

We will do this by giving notice in writing to your last address notified to us. 
I think this is reasonable  insurers cant be expected to provide cover if a policyholder 
doesnt pay for it.
The Terms of Business set out the procedure in the event of a direct debit being rejected. It 
says:
In the event of a payment default, you have 7 days from the date of the default to contact us 
and arrange payment. If payment is not received your policy will be cancelled from the 
default date.
The terms dont say that HDI will send a cancellation notice by multiple means or by text. 
I think its good practice for the business to use the means of communication that reflects the 
policyholders communication preference to warn them about the cancellation and to tell 
them that the policy has been cancelled. In this case thats what HDI did as it had previously 
communicated with Miss H by email. The email address it used was the one provided by 
Miss H. In addition HDI didnt receive any bounce back of the emails to indicate that they 
hadnt been received. 
I think it would have been better if HDI had also tried to contact Miss H by text message or 
called her but I wouldnt necessarily expect this unless the business was aware of a potential 
problem with the communication means it had used in the past.
Generally speaking, if a business has sent notice of cancellation using the appropriate 
means of communication and has followed its own procedures as previously notified to the 
customer, Im likely to say it did what it was required to do. Thats what happened in this 
case. Im satisfied that by sending the emails to Miss H, HDI did enough to contact her about 
the rejected direct debit and the seven-day notice of cancellation as well as the email 
confirming cancellation. So I dont feel it would be fair and reasonable to require HDI to 
reinstate the policy and/or pay compensation.
I also think Miss H would have received notification from her bank of the failed payments in 
March 2023 and so ought to have known that her policy was likely to be cancelled.
In summary in response Miss H made the following points:
In a situation as serious as cancelling an insurance policy she thought it would be 
best practice to use another method of communication in addition to email.
She has never missed a payment previously on any of her policies with the same 
insurer and wasnt notified by her bank of the failed payment.
Since the cancellation her dog has developed further health issues which would be 
excluded as a pre-existing condition under a policy with a different insurer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree it would have been preferable if HDI had tried to contact Miss H by another method 
but there is no requirement on it to do so and I dont consider the fact that it didnt should 
mean the policy should be reinstated.
Ive no reason to doubt that Miss H had never been in default before. But that doesnt mean 
HDI acted unfairly in exercising its rights under the contract she had with it once a payment 
was missed.
I also cant hold HDI responsible for any failure on the part of Miss Hs bank to let her know 
that the payment hadnt been made. It was Miss Hs responsibility to ensure that there were 
sufficient funds in her account to pay the premium.
Im sorry to hear that Miss Hs dog has developed further health problems. Based on what Ive seen, I cant say HDI has treated Miss H unfairly. It acted within the 
terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy. I realise Miss H will be very disappointed 
with this outcome. But I wont be upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman