DRN-3661193
The complaint
Mr I complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) removed £220 from his Vanquis credit
card account without his permission.
What happened
On 23 June 2020 Mr Is credit card account received two payments totalling £220 from a
third party. Mr I says the payments were made by an acquaintance who owed him money.
The third party initiated, through his separate bank, a recovery request to Vanquis. And the 
£220 was returned to the third party.
Mr I referred his complaint to us after Vanquis rejected his complaint. As our investigator 
(who recommended that the complaint be upheld) was unable to resolve the matter 
informally, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
I sent Mr I and Vanquis my provisional decision on 4 August 2022, explaining why I was 
intending to uphold the complaint and the compensation I was minded to award. Mr I 
responded to my provisional decision. I received no response to my provisional decision 
from Vanquis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same conclusions and for the same reasons as explained in my provisional 
decision. Ive explained my reasoning again below.  
The evidence shows that the third partys bank initiated the recovery request on the basis 
that the third party entered the wrong reference when making the payments, and the £220
had been sent to Mr Is account by mistake.
Vanquis has given various reasons why it says it would need to comply with the third partys
recovery request, but I must be clear and say I havent found any of Vanquiss arguments
persuasive at all.
I have found Vanquiss submissions regarding whether the payments to Mr Is account were
by faster payment or debit card to be less than clear. But regardless, there is a general
obligation owed by a financial business such as Vanquis to its customer to actually 
investigate any alleged fraud/mistaken transaction, and to determine how liable their 
customer actually is.
I cant see Vanquis undertook any investigation here at all. Instead it has just repeatedly and
incorrectly told Mr I there was nothing it could do to prevent return of the funds. This is
despite that Mr I was in touch with Vanquis to express his concern. And had Vanquis  as it
reasonably ought to have done  actually investigated the allegation of the mistaken
transactions before it allowed the money to be recalled, it would have been immediately
apparent that Mr I had evidence supporting the payments were intended to his account.
This evidence  as Vanquis has seen  consists of screenshots that appear to show a
WhatsApp conversation between Mr I and the third party, including two screenshots within
the conversation, that the third party appears to have sent Mr I, showing two payments to Mr
Is Vanquis account, the first on 22 June 2020 for £130 and the second on 23 June 2020 for
£90. I am satisfied that this evidence reasonably supports that the funds were intended to be
sent to Mr I.
This means Im satisfied that had Vanquis investigated the allegation of mistaken payments
 as it reasonably ought to have done  rather than just telling its customer that it had to
comply with the recovery request, it reasonably ought to have concluded that the funds were
intended for Mr I, and it had no reasonable grounds to comply with the recovery request. Mr I
explained to Vanquis that the money was paid to his account because the third party owed
him money. And whether there was or wasnt a breakdown in the relationship between Mr I
and the third party that led to the recovery request, that would not be a reason for Vanquis to
comply with this particular recovery request when, like I have said, Mr I had evidence
supporting the payments were intended to him.
Putting things right
Im satisfied its very clear here that had Vanquis done what it reasonably ought to have
done, the £220 ought not to have been removed from Mr Is account. I also think Vanquis
has dealt with this matter in a way that has caused Mr I unnecessary distress and
inconvenience. So, to put things right Vanquis should pay Mr I £220; it should also rework Mr
Is account to remove any additional interest and charges incurred because of the £220 debt;
and it should also pay Mr I £150 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Vanquis Bank Limited to: pay Mr I £220; rework Mr Is 
account to remove any additional interest and charges incurred because of the £220 debt; 
pay Mr I a further £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman