DRN-2574103
The complaint
Ms L, on behalf of the estate of Ms C, says Nationwide Building Society (trading at the time 
as Dunfermline Building Society) mis-sold a payment protection policy (PPI) policy to the late 
Ms C.
What happened
Ms C took out PPI in 1997 at the same time as she applied for a further advance on her 
mortgage. Ms L says the sale took place during a meeting, Nationwide cant confirm this. 
The policy gave Ms C accident, sickness and unemployment cover. She paid a monthly 
amount for it.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Ms L disagreed so the 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some if it is here) I have reached my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities. In other words, based on what I think it most likely given the 
available evidence and what we know about how Nationwide sold PPI at the time. 
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear the PPI was optional and Ms C had to agree to take
it out. Nationwide no longer has any of the paperwork, but this isnt unreasonable or 
surprising given it was so long ago. Nationwide says Ms C was under no obligation to 
arrange the cover, it was optional. To uphold the complaint on this point I would have to be 
persuaded that Nationwide both presented the PPI as mandatory and added it to Ms Cs 
account without her consent. I dont think its likely it did this. And as Ms Cs main mortgage 
had started the year before  without PPI  I think she would have understood PPI was a 
separate, optional product. Ms L has also said that Ms C agreed to have PPI as the adviser 
recommended it.
Overall, I think its most likely Nationwide made it clear the PPI was optional, and Ms C 
agreed to take it.
As Ive said, Ms L says Nationwide recommended the PPI to Ms C and thats why Ms C 
agreed to it. Nationwide says it didnt provide any advice. I havent seen any evidence that 
Nationwide reviewed Ms Cs individual circumstances and made a tailored recommendation. 
But even if it had, based on what I know of Ms Cs circumstances at the time I think the PPI 
was suitable for her. I say this because: 
Ms C was eligible for the policy given her circumstances at the time and the policys
terms and conditions. It seems she wasnt affected by any of the things limiting the
policys main benefits. So overall, I think it unlikely better information about the
policys exclusions and limitations would have changed her decision to buy it for
Ms C.
Ms C was entitled to six months sick pay, but the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to her work benefits and for up to 12 months. She had savings of around £2000 but 
the PPI would have allowed Ms C to use her savings to cover other living expenses 
whilst she wasnt working, or to protect them for her future needs. The PPI would 
have given up to 12 months redundancy cover in addition to any work benefits, 
allowing Ms C to protect any lump sum redundancy payment giving her increased 
financial stability at an already difficult time. Given the consequences for Ms C of 
defaulting on a large and long-term debt secured against her home, I think the PPI 
would have been useful for Ms C if she was sick or lost her job.
I dont know when the cost was first made clear to Ms C, but the PPI was
reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and it was apparently affordable. And she
could cancel it without further cost if at any stage she no longer wanted it.
Nationwide also had to make sure Ms C got all the information she needed to make an 
informed decision. Its possible the information wasnt as clear as it should have been. But 
for the same reasons I find the policy was suitable for Ms C I dont think Ms C wouldve been 
put off taking out the policy if she had received better information. 
It follows I dont think the estate of Ms C has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L on behalf of 
estate of Ms C to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman