DRN-3619305
The complaint
Mr B and Ms S complain that AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA) unfairly declined a claim for 
water damage under their home insurance policy.
Both Mr B and Ms S are named policyholders on their AXA policy, so any claim or complaint 
is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information about the 
complaint has been provided by Ms S, Ill refer mainly to Ms S from here onward.
What happened
Ms S had an AXA home insurance policy, originally taken out in July 2015. She made a 
claim for water damage when a kitchen pipe burst in October 2020. AXA appointed two third 
party companies to work on the leak: one (referred to as Q in this decision) to validate the 
claim; the other (referred to as D in this decision) to trace, access, and repair the leak. D 
repaired the leak in November 2020. 
In November 2021, Ms S discovered a new leak. She believed this was coming from the 
same place as the first. By that time, Ms S was with a different insurer. Her new insurer 
wouldnt consider the claim and referred Ms S back to AXA. AXA didnt accept the new 
claim. It said:
D told Ms S when it repaired first leak that she needed to get the remaining pipework 
looked at, due to its age and wear and tear.
Q told Ms S AXA wouldnt deal with any related complaints after it settled her first 
claim. 
Ms S was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. She believes the 
earlier repairs cant have been done properly. She wants AXA to fix this and reimburse her 
for the damage caused to her kitchen.  
Our investigator recommended that Ms Ss complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that the new leak was in the same place as the original leak. She thought this showed that 
AXAs contractors original repairs were inadequate. She thought AXA should pay for any 
new repairs, including any damage caused by this second leak, and pay Ms S £250 to 
apologise for the distress the matter had caused her.
AXA disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I apologise to both parties for the time its taken to resolve this complaint.
Ive considered AXAs argument that the November 2020 repairs were only temporary. AXA 
sent us a report by Q dated January 2022. This notes that Ms S disputes Ds statement that 
it told her the repairs were temporary and that D accepts it didnt confirm this to Ms S in 
writing. This is confirmed in an email from D to Q on 26 November 2021: [D] have no record 
of written correspondence to the customer outlining the temporary repair, and this was 
confirmed to AXA in a telecon with their complaints department on Wednesday 24th 
November. 
I also found an email from Q to AXA on 17 January 2022. It asked: if a temp repair why 
did [D] concrete over the pipe? I think this is a fair point. Given the evidence, I find no 
reason to think the November 2020 repairs were meant to be temporary or that D told Ms S 
this was the case.
AXA said Q told Ms S it wouldnt carry out any further repairs. AXA didnt provide anything 
that supported this. It did, however, give us a letter from D to Ms S that said, among other 
things, any future claims may be prejudiced. But this letter is dated 8 October 2005, five 
years before Ms Ss first claim and repairs. Clearly AXA did accept a claim after telling Ms S 
that it might not so, in my opinion, this letter isnt relevant, and I dont think AXA can fairly 
rely on this for not accepting Ms Ss second claim. 
AXA also told us that the October 2020 leak was due to wear and tear so wasnt covered by 
Ms Ss insurance. It said it repaired this as a gesture [of goodwill] to prevent further 
damage. It also noted a four month gap in cover between Ms S ending her AXA policy and 
taking out a new policy with her new insurer, and suggested the new leak happened while 
Ms S wasnt insured.
I dont accept AXAs statement that the original repair was done as a gesture of goodwill. 
Theres no mention of this in AXAs notes of the claim at the time. Instead, AXA appointed Q 
to validate the claim. Qs report in February 2021 listed damage caused by the leak: damage 
to the flooring in the kitchen and bathroom, two kitchen units, and some decoration. Q also 
identified some unrelated damage  for example, damage to the brickwork and interior walls 
 so proposed a cash settlement for damage relating only to the leak. In my opinion, this 
goes far beyond a gesture of goodwill. I dont think AXA would have made a cash settlement 
for this part of Ms Ss claim if she wasnt covered. 
Qs January 2022 report said D could hear water running under the concrete floor in the 
same area as the previous leak but couldnt confirm this was due to a failed repair without 
causing considerable damage to the kitchen.
Ive reviewed the photo evidence provided by both parties. Ms S has also sent us a video of 
the leak. In my opinion the photos and video show the leaks were from the same area and 
most likely from the same pipe as the October 2020 leak. Given D fixed this less than a year 
before, I think its reasonable to conclude that the original repair failed. AXA hasnt provided 
anything to show this is incorrect.
While I note AXAs point about Ms Ss gap in her insurance, this doesnt affect my decision 
that the new leak is most likely the result of the first repair not being good enough. I dont 
accept AXAs arguments why it shouldnt repair the second leak, so I think it needs to 
arrange for these repairs to be done. It should also appoint an expert to assess the damage 
caused by this second leak and pay for this.
Its clear that this matter has caused Ms S inconvenience and its also clear that AXAs 
refusal to accept responsibility for its contractors repairs has caused her distress. I think 
AXA should pay Ms S £250 for this.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require AXA Insurance UK plc to:
Arrange for the leak in Mr B and Ms Ss kitchen to be repaired.
Assess and pay for any damage caused by this leak.
Pay Mr B and Ms S £250 to reflect the inconvenience and distress this matter has 
caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman