DRN-4488068
The complaint
Mr G is complaining that Marsh Finance Limited (MFL) shouldnt have lent to him  he says 
the lending was unaffordable. A representative has brought his complaint to us but for ease 
Ive written as if hes dealt with us directly.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr G took out a hire purchase agreement with MFL to finance the 
purchase of a vehicle. He borrowed £13,525  the cash price of the vehicle. The agreement 
required Mr G to make 59 monthly repayments of £339.01, followed by a final instalment of 
£349.01 (including a £10 option to purchase fee). Mr G made his first two payments on time 
but his December 2019 direct debit bounced. He made that months payment by card and 
then made the following few payments on time until March 2020 when he was granted a 
payment holiday in relation to the pandemic. Since then, he continued to make repayments 
but his direct debits repeatedly bounced. Mr G voluntarily terminated the agreement and 
returned the car in April 2023.
In February 2023, Mr G complained to MFL, saying that he thought MFL had failed to 
conduct appropriate checks before lending to him. He said his credit report shows he had 
seven active credit accounts at the time of the application, and three that had recently been 
closed. He said three of these had been opened in the three months prior to his application. 
Mr G also said hed missed a payment to a lender in June 2019 which should have been 
highlighted when conducting the affordability assessment. He added that hed taken out 
significant additional borrowing since September 2019 which reflected his dependence on 
borrowing.
In response, MFL said theyd carried out a credit check before lending to Mr G. Mr G had 
met their lending criteria and been provisionally approved. Theyd then requested payslips 
as proof of income and used this to confirm his maximum monthly payment could be 
£522.34 per month. Since Mr Gs actual monthly payment was £339.01 they said it was well 
under the maximum amount Mr G could afford. So MFL didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G was unhappy with MFLs response and brought his complaint to our service, saying the 
lending has had a significant adverse impact on his finances and mental health. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying he thought MFL had done enough to check 
that the lending was affordable for Mr G. He didnt think the results of the credit check should 
have prompted MFL to do further checks beyond verifying Mr Gs income.
Mr G remained unhappy so asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. In doing so, 
he said his credit report showed hed had numerous cash advances and short-term loans in 
the months prior to the application which should have prompted them to look at his bank 
statements. Mr G also said if MFL had looked at his bank statements theyd have seen 
persistent gambling. 
I looked into Mr Gs complaint and issued a provisional decision on 31 October 2023. In that 
I said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as 
CONC what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In 
summary, a firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the 
agreement without having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other 
obligations, and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the 
customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did MFL carry out proportionate checks?
MFL said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Mr Gs credit file; and
checked his income to payslips.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including 
the size and length of the loan, and what MFL found. At over £20,000, the total amount 
Mr G would have to repay was significant, and the term of the loan was five years. 
MFL havent provided a copy of Mr Gs credit file  theyve simply told us Mr G met their 
lending criteria. Ive looked at Mr Gs copy of his credit file and this confirms what he told 
MFL when he complained. At the time of the application he had three active credit 
cards, with a total balance of £4,000. He had an unsecured loan with a balance of 
around £1,700. And he had a recent history of repeatedly using payday loans, cash 
advances on his credit cards, and other short-term lending and high cost credit. His 
credit file only showed one missed payment  on a previous hire purchase agreement  
but the unsecured debts of nearly £6,000 and repeated short-term borrowing are an 
indicator that Mr G might have been in financial difficulties.
MFL were also aware that Mr G had been in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) 
from 2013 until September 2018  another indicator that he may have had trouble 
managing his finances.
On that basis, Im inclined to say it wasnt enough for MFL to just check Mr Gs income  
I think they ought to have also got some understanding of his monthly expenditure and 
credit commitments to ensure that hed be able to sustainably make the repayments 
under their agreement.
What would MFL have found if they had done proportionate checks?
A proportionate check would have involved MFL finding out more about Mr Gs 
expenditure to determine whether hed be able to make the repayments in a sustainable 
way. 
Ive looked at statements for Mr Gs bank accounts for the three months leading up to 
his application to MFL. Im not saying MFL needed to obtain bank statements as part of 
their lending checks. But in the absence of other information, bank statements provide a 
good indication of Mr Gs income and expenditure at the time the lending decision was 
made.
Looking at these statements, I couldnt see any evidence of Mr G paying regular rent or 
utilities. His regular expenditure was limited to insurance, telecoms, and travel costs, 
totalling around £600. I asked Mr G about the lack of apparent living costs in his bank statements and he told us that at the time of the agreement he was homeless, having 
been evicted for non-payment of rent. Instead, he was paying cash to stay with various 
friends and family members. 
The statements also show Mr G was struggling with debt. In July and August 2019, he 
paid around £3,500 and £2,150 respectively to creditors, with the majority of this being 
short-term credit. Mr Gs income from his primary source of employment was around 
£2,450, so this left very little to spare. Mr G had other income  hed started doing self-
employed delivery work  but hes described this to us as being out of desperation to 
make ends meet rather than an intended long-term source of income.
Ive considered Mr Gs comments about his gambling, but Ive seen no evidence of that 
before this agreement was taken out  so thats not a factor in my provisional decision.
In summary, Mr G wasnt managing his repayments against existing debts in a 
sustainable way at the time of the lending decision. So Im inclined to say that if MFL 
had done proportionate checks, they wouldnt have been able to fairly decide to lend to 
Mr G.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr G told us that hed returned the vehicle, but had 
no other comments. MFL werent happy with my provisional decision. They thought the 
reason our position had changed was because Mr G had told us about his gambling. They 
said this wasnt appropriate because the statements hed sent to evidence his gambling 
were dated after the date of the agreement.
As I explained within my provisional decision, I didnt take Mr Gs gambling into account at 
all. I simply had a different view from that of our investigator. MFLs comments havent 
changed my mind, so my findings are the same as I set out in my provisional decision and 
quoted above.  
Putting things right
After Mr G clarified that hed returned the vehicle, I updated my thoughts on what MFL 
should do to put things right, and shared them with both parties on 7 November 2023. 
Neither party commented on this update and so the following is unchanged from what I sent 
previously:
As I dont think MFL should have approved the loan, I dont think its fair for them to charge 
any interest or other charges under the agreement. But Mr G had use of the vehicle for 
around 43 months so its fair he pays for that use. There isnt an exact formula for working 
out what amount would reflect a customers fair usage of a car. But in deciding whats fair 
and reasonable in Mr Gs case Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the 
agreement, Mr Gs overall usage of the car, and what his costs to stay mobile would have 
likely been if he didnt have this car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr G should pay is 
£225 for each month he had use of the car, so a total of £9,675. To settle Mr Gs complaint, 
MFL should do the following:
Refund all the payments Mr G has made in excess of £9,675, adding 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
If Mr G has paid less than £9,675, MFL should arrange an affordable and sustainable 
repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file regarding the agreement.
If MFL consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they should 
provide Mr G a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that Mr G can reclaim that 
amount, assuming he is eligible to do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. Marsh Finance Limited need to take the 
steps outlined above to settle the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman