DRN-3550945
The complaint
Ms R complains that PRA Group (UK) Limited trading as PRA Group (PRA) has failed to 
credit all payments made to her account. 
What happened
Ms R had a credit card with a business Ill call B that closed in 2013. In August 2015 PRA 
says it purchased Ms Rs account from B. Both PRA and B sent Ms R a Notice of 
Assignment in September 2015 that confirmed the outstanding balance was £4,036.36. 
Since PRA purchased the account, Ms R has made payments via a debt advice charity Ill 
call S. Ms R has told us S was administering various debts on her behalf and forwarding 
payments to her creditors, including PRA Group. Payment amounts and dates have varied 
over the years as advised by S. There have also been months where no payment was 
received. At times, Ms R contacted PRA directly to advise payments would be late or missed 
due to circumstances outside of her control. 
Last year, Ms R complained that the balance PRA said remained outstanding was wrong 
and that payments shed made hadnt been credited. PRA issued a final response in 
November 2021 and said it had sent Ms R a copy of the account history. PRA also said 
there were months where no payments had been received which were checked with S. PRA 
didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ms Rs complaint. They thought PRA had dealt with 
Ms Rs case fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Ms R asked to appeal, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ms R has a number of complaints ongoing. Id like to begin by saying that, in this 
decision, Im looking at PRAs actions and whether it treated Ms R fairly. Im not able to 
comment on other businesses actions in this decision. 
Both PRA and B gave an outstanding balance of £4,063.36 at the point her account changed 
hands. PRA and B sent Ms R a Notices of Assignment that set out the change in ownership 
and arrangements. Given the length of time PRA has owned the account, I think its acted 
fairly by providing evidence of payments received towards the outstanding balance. 
I understand Ms R has approached B for further evidence of her account history without 
success. Weve recently contacted PRA and asked it to check with B whether statements or 
an account history remain available.
Whilst I understand Ms R is concerned the original outstanding balance was wrong, this 
wasnt raised with PRA for several years. And, as noted above, PRA wasnt the original 
lender. It purchased the account after Ms Rs credit card was closed. Im satisfied PRA has 
acted in line with the account information provided by the original lender when it acquired the 
debt. I also think its fair to note that S made payments to the account for several years 
without raising concerns. And, as noted above, weve asked PRA to contact B and check 
whether statements remain available.   
Ms R has told us payments that S made on her behalf havent been credited to her account. 
Ive looked back at the payment history and noted all payments made and missed since PRA 
purchased the debt. Ive checked the missed payments against PRAs contact notes. The 
information Ive seen shows that when payments werent made on time, PRA contacted S for 
information. The contact notes also show Ms R got in touch directly at times about missed 
payments. The information Ive seen shows the account history accurately reflects missed 
payments. 
Ms R has questioned why two payments were recorded for September 2020. PRA has 
explained no payment was received in August 2020. A payment was received on 1 
September 2020 and another payment was received on 29 September 2020. I note the 
preceding payments were all received towards the end of the month. Im satisfied the 
payment received on 1 September 2020 was made by S in relation to August 2020. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms R, but the information Ive seen doesnt show mistakes by PRA 
when applying payments to the outstanding balance. Im satisfied the balance PRA is 
seeking to collect is correct. As Im satisfied PRA dealt with Ms Rs complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman