DRN-1680582
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2002, Mr L took out a five-year loan for £15,000 with BoS. At the same time, he was sold 
a regular premium PPI policy to protect the repayments on this loan. It covered Mr L for up to 
twelve months if he became unemployed and up to sixty months if he was unable to work 
because of an accident or sickness. The policy also provided life cover for Mr L over the 
term of the loan.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr L disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint for reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr L says he didnt know he had been sold the PPI with his loan and wouldnt have agreed 
to take it if he had.
BoS doesnt still have a copy of the loan application form which Mr L would have been 
required to complete. But its provided a sample copy of the type of application form which 
was being used at the time of this sale. And I can see that, in the section dealing with PPI on 
this form, theres a signature box provided to be completed if PPI cover is required.
From what I know about BoS normal sales process, I think its most likely that PPI was 
discussed with Mr L and that he then completed this loan application form, signing to confirm 
he wanted to take PPI. The loan agreement would then have been printed out for Mr Ls 
review and signature with the PPI already selected on it.
BoS has provided a copy of the loan agreement which Mr L signed at the time. And I can 
see that a pre-printed cross has been placed in a Yes box next to the question: Do you 
want Personal loan Repayments Insurance? Theres an equally prominent No box that 
could have been crossed. I think the cross would have been entered on the loan application 
system after Mr L had agreed to take out the policy and completed the loan application form. 
If Mr L hadnt agreed to the PPI, I think he would have queried why a pre-printed cross had 
been placed in this box before signing the agreement.So, having carefully considered all the information and testimony available to me, I think its 
most likely that Mr L wanted the protection PPI gave him. And I think he actively decided to 
take out the PPI policy, knowing he could choose not to do so. But this sale happened a long 
time ago, so I can understand why Mr L may not recall this now.
BoS says it recommended the PPI policy to Mr L. And Ive taken this to be the case, 
because this means BoS had to check whether it was suitable for his needs. I dont know 
how BoS did this. But from what I know of his circumstances at the time, I cant see any 
reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
 
Mr L appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. Mr L says he was self-employed at the time of this sale. But 
I dont think this would have made it particularly onerous for him to have claimed on 
the policy if hed been unable to work. Mr L has also said he benefited from some 
additional rental income he received on investment properties he owned at that time. 
But he hasnt responded to our requests for further information about this. However, 
based on the very limited information I do have, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
conclude this would have made it more onerous for Mr L to claim under his PPI policy 
either.
 
 Mr L says that, in addition to rental income, he also had savings he could have used 
to make his loan repayments if he wasnt able to work. But this policy would have 
paid out in addition to these other means, leaving these to be used for other essential 
expenditure. And a secured loan is a significant financial commitment, so I think that 
Mr L would still have valued the extra security which the policy gave him if things 
went wrong.
 
The cost of the policy was £29.80 a month. And I havent seen anything to make me 
think that this would have been unaffordable for Mr L. And as the premiums were 
paid monthly, it could have been cancelled by him if it no longer met his needs.
 
BoS also needed to give Mr L enough information for him to decide if he wanted to buy the 
policy. I think its quite possibly the case that the information which BoS gave to Mr L could 
have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr L, I dont think better information about it would have changed his mind 
about buying it. I think hed still have thought the policy gave him useful cover at an 
affordable cost.
Ive carefully considered the reasons Mr L has given for disagreeing with our adjudicators 
view. But these havent changed my mind about not upholding his complaint. 
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Mr L has lost out by anything that BoS may 
have done wrong when it sold him this PPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.Simon Furse
Ombudsman