DRN-3194111
The complaint
Miss K has complained that in late 2020, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) allowed 
her account to enter an unarranged overdraft by allowing payments to be taken from her 
account, even though she did not have enough funds to cover them. 
Miss K wants the overdrawn balance that built up on the account to be written off.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt think that RBS had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in this matter. 
Miss K disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything I have seen, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Miss Ks account did not have an arranged overdraft facility. Therefore, any time a 
payment(s) is made from the account that takes the account into an overdrawn balance, it is 
treated as being a request for an unarranged overdraft. This is reflected in the account terms 
and conditions which say:
10.2 Unarranged overdrafts
If you give us an instruction which would result in:
 your account becoming overdrawn (or further overdrawn) without an arranged overdraft; or
 your arranged overdraft limit being exceeded,
well treat this as a request for an unarranged overdraft.
The terms and conditions go on to say:
Well decide whether or not to accept your request for an unarranged overdraft, taking your 
financial circumstances into account. If we allow an unarranged overdraft to be created, this 
doesnt mean that your arranged overdraft limit has been changed or that we must make any 
future payment which would have the same effect.
We may take overdraft interest or any of our fees from your account even if this creates or
increases an unarranged overdraft.
So although Miss K believes that RBS should automatically decline all payments that take 
the account into an unarranged overdraft, RBS was not obliged to do this according to the 
account terms and conditions. 
Indeed, I can see that Miss K had made various payments on her account (for example on 
28 February 2020, 31 March 2020, 31 July 2020, 28 August 2020) which resulted in her 
account temporarily entering an unarranged overdraft, and on each occasion she paid 
money into the account to bring the account back into a credit balance a day or so later. So 
Im satisfied that Miss K was generally aware by late 2020 that it was possible for payments 
to be made on the account, even if there was not enough money in the account at the time 
to cover them.
The terms and conditions explain that, when a payment pushes an account into (or further 
into) an unarranged overdraft facility, RBS will charge:
 
£20 for a paid referral fee i.e. where RBS allows a payment to be taken from the 
account; and 
£12 for an unpaid referral fee, i.e. when RBS declines the payment being taken from 
the account.
Looking at Miss Ks statements I can see that two Direct Debits that debited her account (on 
31 December 2020 and 4 January 2021) caused it to go into, or further into, an unauthorised 
overdraft. So if it was the case that Miss K did not want to incur the paid or unpaid referral 
fees that resulted from these payments, Miss K wouldve needed to cancel the Direct Debits 
before they were taken from the account. But Ive not seen anything that suggests she did 
this, at least when the payments first took her account into an unarranged overdraft. So I 
think the paid and unpaid referral fees that resulted from these Direct Debits were correctly 
applied.
I understand that Miss K also had a standing order set up on her account, and this led to a 
payment being made from the account on 18 January 2021, whilst it was in an unarranged 
overdraft. Again, if Miss K did not want to incur the unarranged overdraft charges on this 
payment, it was up to Miss K to have cancelled the standing order that shed set up on her 
account. Therefore, I cant reasonably say that RBS should refund the unarranged overdraft 
charge that resulted from this payment, because Miss F had not cancelled the payment.
As can be seen from the terms and conditions, RBS did have an element of discretion about 
whether to allow a payment (and apply a higher fee to the account) or decline a payment 
(and apply a smaller fee to the account). Looking through the bank statements, I can see 
that RBS was initially allowing the payments to be made  Miss K was charged paid referral 
fees in December 2020, February 2021 and 31 March 2021. But it seems that RBS then 
switched from allowing the payments, to not allowing them (possibly because the 
outstanding balance was growing as the number of requests was increasing)  Miss K was 
charged unpaid fees on 31 March 2021 and 30 April 2021. By not allowing the payments, 
this resulted in Miss K incurring lower unarranged overdraft fees. 
Overall, I think that RBSs actions were reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because 
its feasible to think that Miss K mayve wanted the payments to be made from the account  
on account of the fact that they had not been cancelled. But it seems reasonable that RBS 
eventually stopped allowing the payments to be made from the account - given that Miss K 
had largely stopped paying money into the account after 31 December 2020. Also, had RBS 
continued to allow the payments to be made from the account, this wouldve only added to 
Miss Ks indebtedness - not only from the payments making her account further overdrawn, 
but also because the paid referral fees were a fair bit more than then unpaid fees were.As such, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask RBS to write off the overdrawn balance 
that is on Miss Ks account. From what I have seen, it looks like the account entered an 
unarranged overdraft because payments, that Miss K had authorised (when she set up the 
Direct Debits and Standing Order), were taken from the account. And RBS, in turn, applied 
overdraft charges to the account that were in line with the account terms and conditions. I 
dont think it was unfair for RBS to do that here because I cant see that Miss K had got into 
contact with RBS in late 2020 or early 2021 to say that she was struggling to repay this 
amount and there isnt anything obvious at the time, to suggest that RBS ought to have been 
aware this might have been the case either.
My final decision
Because of the reasons give above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman