DRN-3637694
The complaint
Mr G complains that Novus Wealth Management Limited (Novus) failed to advise him to take 
out alternative critical illness cover when it carried out reviews of his whole of life policy. 
What happened
In June 2004 Mr G took out a reviewable whole of life policy (the policy) through a company 
that has since been acquired by Novus. The policy provided cover in the event Mr G died or 
was diagnosed with a listed critical illness. The policy also provided waiver of premium 
cover, which meant premiums would be waived in the event Mr G was unwell and unable to 
work for more than six months. 
Mr G had an ongoing relationship with Novus (and its predecessor companies) as it provided 
ongoing servicing of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  
In December 2020 Mr G sadly contracted Covid-19 and became extremely unwell. He 
required extensive intensive care treatment in hospital, including being placed into an 
induced coma. Mr G later contacted the insurer to make a claim for critical illness benefit. His 
claims were initially declined as the policy did not provide cover for either intensive care 
treatment or being placed into a medically induced coma. Although Mr G discovered that the 
insurers newer policies would have provided cover for intensive care treatment. 
Mr G complained to Novus that it had failed to advise him to improve his cover when it had 
conducted reviews of his policy. He also said his policy was substandard to other policies 
available on the market. He said Novus should have carried out a full review of the cover 
available when it carried out reviews of his policy and it should have advised him to take out 
more comprehensive cover when it became available. He also complained Novus had failed 
to advise his wife and brother to make a waiver of premium claim while he was unwell.  
Novus rejected Mr Gs complaint. It explained that its only ongoing involvement with the 
policy was to offer discuss the regular premium reviews carried out by the insurer. It 
explained it was not obliged to, nor would it, review the critical illness conditions covered by 
the policy unless it had been specifically asked to do so, which it hadnt. It also explained 
that critical illness cover had evolved over time, and newer policies didnt necessarily provide 
better cover than older policies. 
Mr G referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He felt Novus had failed to carry out 
an appropriate review of his policy, which resulted in him being unable to claim for benefits 
at a time he needed them most. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. He said the evidence didnt support that 
Novus had agreed to provide ongoing reviews of the suitability of Mr Gs policy. But he 
explained that even if it had offered to provide ongoing reviews, that wouldnt necessarily 
mean it should have recommended Mr G change his policy. He explained that the policy was 
designed to provide long term protection, and there were potential costs and risks involved in 
cancelling an existing policy in favour of a newer policy. He also didnt agree that Novus had 
failed to assist Mr Gs family in making a waiver of premium claim. He was satisfied that 
Novus had provided Mr G with the appropriate information about making a claim, and that 
from what hed told them he wouldnt have been eligible to claim as he hadnt been unable to 
work for more than six months. 
Mr G disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. He maintained that he had an ongoing relationship with Novus that included a full 
review of his protection needs. 
Since Mr G brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman the insurer agreed to accept 
his critical illness claim and has since paid the claim in full. When asked if he wanted to 
pursue this complaint Mr G confirmed that he did. He explained he was still of the view that 
Novus had failed to provide him with a service he believed he had been paying for.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything weve been sent, Ive reached the same conclusion 
as our Investigator and for largely the same reasons. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr G. So, Id like to explain my reasons for reaching this conclusion.  
While Mr G has stated that Novus had agreed to provide regular ongoing reviews of the 
suitability of the policy, Novus denies this. Ive therefore had to decide whether I think its 
more likely than not that such an arrangement was in place. Having carefully considered the 
available evidence, I dont think it was. 
Novus said that after the policy was initially sold in 2004, any ongoing engagement with 
Mr G was limited to discussing the policy premium reviews that were undertaken by the 
insurer at regular intervals. It says it provided Mr G with "Valuation Reports" detailing his 
various plans, including his SIPP and protection policies, but explained that these weren't 
reviews of Mr Gs protection needs. 
Engagement letters provided by Novus set out the services it and its predecessor firms 
offered, including the fees it charges. These documents do not indicate that Novus would 
keep Mr Gs protection needs under review.
I understand Mr G feels strongly that Novus failed to provide him with the level of service he 
expected and believed hed agreed to. But I have seen no evidence to confirm it had offered 
to review Mr Gs protection needs after the policy was put in place. 
And as our Investigator has previously explained, I would consider such an instruction or 
agreement to be unusual. So, if an arrangement had been made to keep the policy under 
regular review, Id have expected this to be confirmed in writing  with details of how and 
when the reviews would take place. But I havent seen any evidence to show such an 
agreement was in place. In the absence of such evidence, I can't fairly assume that Novus 
had agreed to continually review Mr Gs protection needs or the suitability of his cover.
Whole of life policies are, as the name suggests, long term policies that are intended to stay 
in place for the remainder of the policyholder's life. While there might be occasions when a 
policyholder's circumstances change to the extent that cover should be reviewed, I would 
typically expect this to be at the request and instigation of the policyholder, rather than at any 
fixed date decided by the adviser. As such, I cannot conclude that Novus acted 
unreasonably by not reviewing the policy after 2004.As our Investigator has explained, I also wouldn't expect an adviser to review cover solely in 
relation to the insured conditions covered by the policy. It isn't reliable to say that a newer 
policy is better, or more comprehensive than an older policy. Some changes will be of 
benefit to policyholders and others will be to their disadvantage. As such, if an adviser were 
to review existing cover, I would reasonably expect them to consider the overall suitability of 
the policy  and generally Id expect a review to focus on the sum assured, the policy term 
and the premiums more so than the insured conditions. So, even if I were to conclude that 
Novus should have reviewed Mr Gs protection needs, I would unlikely conclude that it 
should have advised him to take out a newer policy on the basis that it offered "more 
comprehensive cover", without there being another justification for him to take out alternative 
cover.
I am also mindful that the insurer has now thankfully accepted Mr Gs claim for critical illness 
benefit. And as such, even if I concluded Novus had acted unreasonably in some way, I 
couldn't conclude that Mr G has suffered any loss due to its actions or inactions. While Mr G 
suggested he may have paid Novus to carry out reviews it hasnt completed, I havent seen 
any evidence of this.
I appreciate Mr G has been through a very difficult time since he became critically unwell 
after contracting Covid-19 and was hospitalised. I dont underestimate the stress and worry 
he and his family must have experienced when the policy didnt initially provide the cover he 
anticipated. But, from everything Ive seen, I am unable to conclude that Novus was 
responsible for this or should have acted differently. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman