DRN-3828610
The complaint
Miss R complains about Next Retail Limiteds refusal to recredit the value of a purchase she 
made, as well as an associated investigation charge, using her running account credit 
facility.
What happened
Miss R purchased a bottle of perfume using her credit facility with Next in February 2022. 
She says she chose to return the goods to Next as she was entitled to. 
Next subsequently said it had only received a box back, not the perfume itself. It reapplied 
the charge for the perfume and added a £35 investigation fee to Miss Rs account.
Miss R raised a complaint with Next because she said the perfume had been returned.  
Next issued a final response to Miss R in April 2022. In summary, it said it was satisfied that 
the perfume had been in the package delivered to Miss R, but was absent from the package 
it received back. It noted that Miss R had received the goods on 13 February 2022, but it 
was returned on 14 March 2022. It also said that Miss R had had a high level of deliveries 
and returns going missing, so it asked her to collect and return future deliveries in store. It 
declined to remove the charge for the perfume as well as the £35 investigation fee. 
Miss R referred the matter to this service. Our investigator said that in the circumstances 
Next was acting as a retailer and as a finance provider. They said that whether Next had 
received the perfume back and if it had been justified in asking Miss R to pay the charge for 
it was a retail activity, a point which we didnt have the power to consider. However, they 
said that the £35 administration charge Next had applied was set out in Miss Rs finance 
agreement, and we did have the power to say whether that charge had been applied fairly 
and correctly. 
Our investigator accepted that Miss Rs agreement allowed Next to apply a £35 investigation 
fee if Miss R attempted to return or substitute non-faulty used items. However, she wasnt 
persuaded that was what had happened in the circumstances. As a result, she didnt think 
the £35 fee had been applied correctly and Next should therefore remove it from Miss Rs 
account.
Miss R initially said that she believed the issue related to her credit facility so we ought to be 
able to comment on whether Next should remove the charge for the goods. But, ultimately 
she said shed accept what our investigator recommended.
Next said that it was confident in its processes and maintained that it hadnt received the 
perfume back, so it thought the £35 charge had been applied correctly.
The case has been passed to me to decide what should happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about whether or not Next is acting fairly in relation to running a credit 
account regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Its a regulated agreement and one 
which this service has the power to consider a complaint about. That is, so far as the 
complaint arises from Next carrying on an activity specified under our rules.
Broadly speaking, our rules (known as DISP and found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook) say that we can consider complaints about a business covered by our jurisdiction 
as long as the complaint is about a regulated activity, or other specified. 
Next is covered by this services jurisdiction, but it has acted in two different capacities in 
dealing with Miss R. Theres an important distinction to be made here, and its relevant to 
whether or not the complaint relates to an activity we can consider.
When it sold perfume to Miss R, Next was acting as a retailer. It was also acting as a retailer 
in deciding whether or not to accept the subsequent return of the goods. In raising the issue 
about whether or not Next ought to have accepted that Miss R returned the goods, Miss R 
has relied on rights she might have had against Next as a retailer. So, the issue Miss R 
raises about whether or not Next received the perfume she says she returned relate to 
Nexts role as a retailer. This service does not have the power to consider a complaint about 
Nexts activities as a retailer. So, I make no finding on this point.
That being said, Next has also acted as the provider of regulated lending to Miss R, and its 
asked her to repay sums in relation to her purchase. I can consider whether Next is acting 
fairly in asking Miss R to repay the lending it provided in respect of the purchase of the 
perfume, taking into account everything thats happened.
Miss Rs agreement set out that Next would provide lending for certain purchases and also 
the terms on which Miss R would be required to repay that lending. It doesnt say that Miss R 
need not repay the lending in the event of a dispute about the provision or return of the 
goods. And its clear theres a dispute about whether or not the goods were returned. So, 
taking that into account, it wouldnt be fair for me to say that Next has not acted fairly by 
asking Miss R to repay the lending it provided for the perfume she purchased. 
That being said, the term which Next relies on in applying a £35 investigation charge is in 
Miss Rs credit agreement. So, I can say whether its been applied fairly. The particular term 
says;
If you return or attempt to return, substitute or alternative items when using our returns 
facility for any item an investigation charge of £35 will be added to the balance owing on 
your account.
In determining whether or not this term applies, Id expect Next to have robust and reliable 
evidence to justify its application. 
Next has provided a picture of a box of perfume, as well as comments from someone in its 
warehouse to say that the box was empty, and that Miss R has a high return rate. 
Whether or not Miss R had a high return rate is, in my view, immaterial to whether this 
particular item was returned. And, whilst I appreciate its difficult to demonstrate the absence 
of something, Id have expected Next to be able to demonstrate more than it has. For 
example, detailed pictures of the packaging, comments from couriers as well as tracking 
information. As I understand it, Miss R returned the goods shortly after receiving them and the box itself 
was housed in a larger box for transport, which she says was unopened. It wouldve been 
beneficial to have seen pictures of the larger box to determine, for example, whether it could 
have possibly been tampered with at some point along its journey. Or even if it had been 
opened at all. However, Next has only provided a picture of the box of perfume.
I think its therefore fair to say theres likely evidence which couldve been relied on to 
reasonably determine the likelihood of whether the perfume was returned and therefore 
whether this charge is justified. As that evidence hasnt been captured and/ or provided by 
Next, I dont think I can fairly say, on balance, that the charge has been applied fairly. As a 
result, I require Next to remove it and rework Miss Rs account as though it hadnt been 
applied.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I require Next Retail Limited to 
remove the £35 charge it applied to Miss Rs account and rework the account as though it 
had not been applied in the first instance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman