DRN-3141831
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) have dealt with claims under his
motor insurance policy in relation to two separate accidents.  
What happened
Mr L took out a car insurance policy with UKI on 4 October 2018 with his wife as a named
driver. Mr L took the car for a vehicle health check on 7 September 2019. The brakes were
inspected and the pads were found to be low but acceptable. The car was booked in for
annual service, brake pad change, and MOT on 1 October 2019.
Accident 20 September 2019
Mr Ls car was involved in an accident on 20 September 2019 when it collided with the rear
of another car. Mr L was initially informed by UKI that the best case scenario would be a
50:50 liability split. He then received an email saying that it would be treated as a fault claim.
Mr L complained about this. UKI accepted that Mr L had been given an unrealistic
expectation of split liability and offered him £50 compensation. They did not change their
decision on liability as Mr Ls car had hit the rear of the third partys car and there was no
evidence to suggest the third party was at fault.
Mr L did not believe that UKI properly investigated the claim. He says he will suffer financial
loss due to higher premiums as a result. He would like liability changed to 50:50. He also
requests half of his £250 excess to be returned to him.
Mr Ls car was repaired by UKIs approved garage and returned to him at the end of
September 2019. The car then failed its MOT. Mr L paid for the repairs but asked UKI to
refund the cost of the headlight alignment and damaged brake components. The approved
garage agreed to refund Mr L £18 for the headlight alignment. They said the brake damage
was due to wear and tear and had not been caused in the accident. Mr L disagreed and
offered the brake components to UKI for inspection.
The car was returned to the approved garage in October 2019 when the garage found there
was further accident damage to the suspension and sub frame. Mr L believes the car should
have been written off at this point, but it was repaired. Before the car was returned to Mr L
the radio aerial was damaged and replaced by the approved garage.
Mr L received his car back in November 2019 and says there were still problems with it. The
radio reception was poor and the coolant level was low. Mr L wanted the car inspected by an
independent engineer and any repairs carried out a garage of his choice. He also asks for
£1,000 compensation to cover his time and inconvenience. UKI agreed that their service had
been poor and offered £200 compensation.
Our investigator looked into the matter. He thought that UKI had acted fairly in accepting
liability and that the damage to the brakes was more likely to have been caused by wear and
tear than during the accident. He did not think that an inspection by an independent engineer
was warranted. He agreed with Mr L that UKIs service had been poor but thought that the
offer of £200 compensation plus the waiver of the £250 excess was fair.
Since then further problems have arisen with Mr Ls car and UKI have offered to write it off
and pay Mr L the sum of £2,910, or £3,326 if the offer is accepted as full and final
settlement. Mr L did not accept this and asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman.
He is asking for £3,326 for the car and £1,000 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Accident 24 September 2019
Following the accident in September 2019 Mr L was provided with a hire car by UKI. Whilst
stationary at a roundabout the car was hit by a bus. The accident was reported to the police,
bus company and UKI the same day.
In November 2019 UKI contacted Mr L advising that the claim was being treated as a fault
claim and that he should pay his £250 excess. Mr L says that the delay in UKI dealing with
the matter meant that evidence had not been preserved and the claim was wrongly recorded
as a fault claim. Mr L complained to UKI and in February 2020 the claim was changed to a
no fault claim with no effect on Mr Ls no claims discount. UKI also agreed to waive his £250
excess and offered £125 for poor service. Mr L was not happy with this and said that his
premiums were higher during the claim and he would like £1,000 as compensation for his
time and inconvenience.
Our investigator considered the complaint and agreed that UKI had not investigated the
claim promptly. He thought that UKI should pay Mr L an additional £300 for poor service in
addition to the £125 offered. Mr L did not accept out investigators view and asked for the
matter to be considered by an ombudsman.  
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 29 September 2021. I said:
Mr Ls complaint arises out of two incidents and I will deal with them separately.
Accident 20 September 2019
It is not my role to decide who was at fault for the accident, but I can look to see if UKI
settled the claim in a reasonable manner and in line with the available evidence. The terms
of Mr Ls insurance policy allow UKI to accept liability on Mr Ls behalf and to take over and
settle any claim as they see fit. Mr Ls car hit the rear of the car in front of it and I have not
seen any evidence to suggest that the third party was at fault. UKI will rightly consider their
chances of success and the costs when deciding whether to accept liability. In the
circumstances I do not think that it was unreasonable for UKI to accept full liability.
I think it is important to note that even if UKI had accepted 50:50 liability as Mr L requested,
the claim would still have been recorded as a fault claim and would therefore have affected
Mr Ls premiums in the future.
Mr L is also unhappy that UKI have failed to reimburse him the cost of his damaged brake
parts. If the brakes were faulty before the accident, this is not something that I would expect
UKI to cover.
I have looked at Mr Ls vehicle health check carried out before the accident. The report does
not say that anything other than the brake pads were inspected. There is a line through the
section relating to the discs/drums and callipers/cylinders and so I do not think that these
were inspected. I cannot therefore be sure that the damage to the brakes was not presentbefore the accident.
UKIs engineer says that the problem with the front brakes was more likely to have been a
contributing factor to the accident rather than having been caused by the accident. Their
engineer says that the damage to the brakes is general wear and tear and that the accident
impact would not have caused such damage. I have looked at the engineers report. This
says that the accident impact was medium. From the photos, I can see that the damage
does not appear to be significant. The brakes are noted as being satisfactory. There is
nothing to indicate that the damage to the car was sufficient to cause the damage to the
brakes.
I can see from UKIs case notes that their approved garage discussed the brake repairs with
Mr Ls garage in December 2019. They said that the damage was likely due to wear and
tear. Mr L believes that these comments were made without his garage being aware of the
accident, but I think it unlikely that the accident would not have been discussed as this was
the purpose of UKIs call.
Mr L also suggested UKI examine the brake components which he had saved. UKI declined
to do this but I dont think this was unreasonable as I dont think there was sufficient
evidence of accident damage to warrant such an inspection.
On balance I dont think I can fairly say that the damage to the brakes was caused in the
accident. Although I understand that Mr Ls garage told Mr L that the brake damage could
have been caused in the accident, I dont think that this is enough on its own to say that that
was how the damage was caused.
I do, however, think that UKI and their approved garage could have handled the repairs
better.
Mr Ls car was returned to the approved garage in October 2019 for further repairs to the
sub frame and suspension. It would have been reasonable to expect this to have been
identified when the car was first taken in for repair. Mr L reports that these repairs took a
further five weeks. The approved garage also damaged Mr Ls aerial. Although this was
replaced, Mr L reported ongoing problems with the aerial reception. The car was also
returned with low coolant levels. Both of these issues should have been checked by the
garage before the car was returned.
UKI have offered £200 for poor service. I dont consider this to be sufficient. Returning his
car for further repair caused Mr L considerable inconvenience at a time when he required his
car to attend regular hospital appointments with his son who was very unwell. I believe Mr L
was provided with a hire car, but if he was not, I will consider any additional evidence of
financial loss that Mr L can provide.
UKI accepted responsibility for the headlight realignment, but this should have been checked
before the car was returned. There was also a delay in reimbursing Mr L the £18 and he had
to chase this on a number of occasions. This would have taken him time and effort.
UKI accept that they did not keep Mr L updated with the progress of his claim and I can see
that Mr L had to contact UKI himself to chase progress. I think that the problems Mr L
experienced with the repairs and communication came at a very difficult time for him and
they must have added to his distress.
Taking all the above into consideration I agree with our investigator that a total of £450
compensation for distress and inconvenience would be fair. Our investigator included the
waiver of the £250 excess as part of the award, but I cant see any evidence that the excess
was waived. If it was, then I agree that it should be part of the overall award. I say thisbecause it would be usual for the excess to be paid by an insured in a fault claim. If it was
not waived, then £450 compensation would be payable.
Since the car was returned to Mr L there have been additional problems with the repairs and
in March 2021 UKI offered to write off the car. I have therefore not considered Mr Ls request
to have the car inspected by an engineer. UKI valued the car at £2,910 but agreed to accept
our investigators estimate of value of £3,326 as full and final settlement to include any
compensation payments. Mr L did not accept this offer. As this new offer from UKI is
inextricably linked to the original complaint I have dealt with this matter in this decision.
UKIs policy says that they will pay the cost of replacing any vehicle up to its UK market
value at the time of the claim. It is therefore important to look at the value as of 20
September 2019. I have checked the value of the car with valuation tools on the standard
industry databases. One values it at £2,910 and the other at £3,326. I therefore think a fair
valuation would be to take an average of the two which would be £3,118. I therefore intend
to require UKI to pay Mr L £3,118 for the car.
Accident 24 September 2019
Mr L reported the claim promptly to UKI but then heard nothing. He rang for an update in
November 2019 thinking that matters would have been concluded but found that very little
progress had been made. No enquiries with the police or third party were made until
December 2019, after having been prompted again by Mr L. Mr L felt it necessary to make
his own enquiries with the police and bus company in order to try to preserve the evidence.
UKI then failed to chase the police report until contacted again by Mr L in February 2020.
I can see that UKI accepted that mistakes had been made with their investigation and in
February 2020 agreed that the claim would be recorded as a no fault claim. However, Mr L
then received a letter asking him to pay his excess despite the fact that UKI had already
agreed to waive this.
UKI have offered £125 compensation for the delays in investigating the claim. I agree with
our investigator that this does not adequately reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
If UKI had promptly investigated this matter, it could well have been concluded sooner. In
any event, Mr L should not have had to investigate matters himself. The delay caused Mr L
unnecessary distress as he did not feel UKI were investigating the claim on his behalf and
he believed that he was going to be unfairly held responsible for the accident. The delay also
caused Mr Ls car insurance premiums to increase although UKI later provided confirmation
to Mr Ls insurers that the matter was recorded as no fault.
In addition, Mr L spent a lot of time and effort making contact with both the police and bus
company, and in chasing the claim with UKI. Mr L was not kept updated with the progress of
his claim every two weeks as he had been promised. The claim was finally closed in August
2020. All this came at a time when Mr L was under considerable emotional strain due to his
sons ill-health.
In all the circumstances, I intend to make an award of £500 compensation for distress and
inconvenience. I think this would be fair.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr L accepted my provisional decision.
UKI say that they paid £3,326 to Mr L for his car on 3 March 2021. This was greater than the 
valuation in my provisional decision. They also say that £200 compensation has been paid although they have not provided proof of payment. 
In relation to the accident on 24 September 2019, UKI say that there was nearly a months 
delay in the accident being reported to them and that their offer of £125 compensation is fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken on board the additional comments from UKI, but my final decision and reasoning 
remain the same as in my provisional decision.  
UKI have already paid the sum of £3,326 to Mr L for his car, so I have not included this in my 
final decision. This is £208 more than I recommended. I think it would be fair for this sum to 
be taken into account when making the compensation payment. As UKI have not confirmed 
that the excess was waived on this complaint, this leaves the sum of £242 remaining, less 
any compensation already paid. 
I note what UKI say about the reporting of the second accident, but I also note that Mr L has 
always been clear that the accident was reported on the day. In any event, this does not 
change my overall view that the delays in investigating and settling Mr Ls claim were such 
that I think an award of £500 compensation is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and UK Insurance Limited must:
1. pay Mr L £450 compensation for distress and inconvenience for the 20 September 
2019 accident, but may deduct the £208 overpayment for the car and the £200 
compensation if this has already been paid; and
2. pay Mr L £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience for the 24 September 
2019 accident, less any compensation already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman