DRN-4045071
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has acted unfairly in the
way it has dealt with his complaint about the outstanding balance on a credit card account.
He also says it unfairly recorded a default against this account.
What happened
In 2005 Mr W opened a credit card account which, in 2008, was transferred to Barclaycard.
Mr W set up a direct debit to make the minimum payment each month. He says he didnt
monitor his account and didnt receive any paper statements for many years. Mr W says he
believes he had a balance on the account of around £4,000 in or about 2011 and hadnt
used the card since then.
In February 2020, Mr Ws financial circumstances were impacted by the pandemic. He called
Barclaycard and asked about the outstanding balance on his credit card account. He says
he was concerned to learn that the balance stood at around £4,800 as he had been making
regular payments each month of £100pm for many years. Mr W says he queried why the
balance was still so high, but that Barclaycard wasnt able to assist as it said it couldnt go
back further than six years on its records.
Mr W says he made three formal complaints to Barclaycard about his account, but these
werent answered. Mr W decided to stop making payments to the credit card account and
ceased the direct debit in February 2020.
A default notice for Mr Ws credit card account was issued in July 2020 seeking a payment
of £552 to be made by August 2020. A few days after this notice, Barclaycard sent Mr W a
final response letter to his complaint. This letter set out that Barclaycard agreed Mr W hadnt
used the account for a long time but said that although the direct debit had been paid
regularly, it had been set up to pay only the minimum amount. It said that interest had been
added to the outstanding balance each month.
Following this notice, Mr W complained again to Barclaycard about the balance on his
account. Barclaycard responded in August 2020 that it had reviewed Mr Ws complaint and
confirmed that the interest and charges which had been added to the balance had increased
the outstanding figure but had been in line with the agreements terms and conditions. It said
Mr W had exceeded the credit limit in 2011 thus incurring fees. It said it wasnt upholding
that part of his complaint.
However, in this response letter, Barclaycard also said that it agreed that the level of service
Mr W had received from it regarding his complaint had been poor. Barclaycard provided
£100 compensation for the inconvenience this had caused Mr W. Barclaycard also said that
it had placed Mr Ws account on hold for 30 days meaning no interest or charges would be
added to the account in that period. It reminded Mr W that a default notice had been issued
and said that if it had not heard from him in the 30 days then it would expect Mr W to be
resuming his monthly payments. Barclaycard advised that Mr Ws account could be passed
to a third party to be managed. It asked Mr W to contact its Specialist Support Team.
Mr W then made a complaint to this service about Barclaycards handling of his credit card
account. He said that he had only been provided with statements for this account from 2016
and had been told the earlier ones werent available.
At the end of the default notices 30-day period, Barclaycard recorded a default against Mr
Ws credit card account as no payments had been made. Mr W raised this as a further
complaint to this service and said this had been unfair as Barclaycard had said it wouldnt
take any action while his complaint was being investigated by us.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He said that looking
at the statements that had been provided since 2008, Mr Ws account had exceeded the set
credit limit at the time it had been passed to Barclaycard from the original
credit provider. And as Mr W hadnt made any additional payments and only paid the
minimum amount due on his account, it had accrued over-limit fees each month together
with interest charges. Our investigator said this had meant Mr Ws account hadnt been
brought back within the credit limit for a number of years as the balance had either only been
reduced by a small amount or had slightly increased due the added charges. He said the
interest and fee charges had all been in accordance with the credit agreements terms and
conditions.
As all the statements had been properly addressed, our investigator said he thought it was
reasonable to say they had been sent to Mr W. And these statements set out the position of
Mr Ws account over the years. He said that it had been Mr Ws responsibility to make the
required contractual payments and there was no evidence that Barclaycard had mis-
managed the account.
In regard to the recording of the default, our investigator said that Mr W had been obliged to
make the contractual payments. He said he couldnt see any evidence that Barclaycard had
said it wouldnt take action on Mr Ws account for non-payment while his complaint was
being considered by this service.
Our investigator said he thought the £100 compensation paid to Mr W by Barclaycard for the
poor service he had received was fair.
Mr W disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said that he had queried the balance on
his account when experiencing a change to his financial circumstances due to Covid. When
he had been told what was still outstanding, he had asked why it hadnt reduced and had
made complaints to Barclaycard. He said Barclaycards response letters hadnt answered
the point of his complaint. Mr W said he hadnt received any statements until he asked for 
copies following his contact in 2020 and these, when provided, had only gone back to 2016.
It had only been following his complaint to this service that copies of statements dating back
to 2008 had been provided. Mr W says it was then that he realised he had been
underpaying. He says Barclaycard should have contacted him about the issues with his
account over the years.
Mr W said that Barclaycards action of defaulting his account during a pandemic had been
unfair as he had been in contact with them. His account had been passed to third party
companies and he had been unsure who was dealing with things, and this had caused him
distress and inconvenience. He said he had spent a considerable amount of time trying to
contact Barclaycard. Mr W said he didnt think Barclaycard had answered his concerns
properly.
As the parties had been unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to
me. I issued a provisional decision along the following lines.It wasnt disputed that Mr W had held a credit card account with Barclaycard since 2008 and
that he hadnt made use of that credit card for some time. Mr W also admitted that he hadnt
really manage this account, setting up to make the minimum payments only. He said that if
Barclaycard had provided all the statements when he had first requested them then he 
wouldnt have stopped the direct debit and there wouldnt have been a default.
Id seen that Mr Ws credit card account had been set to paper statements being sent to him 
and Id also seen that all the statements had been addressed correctly. Barclaycard said 
these were sent out, but Mr W disputed that. Barclaycard hadnt been able to provide proof 
of posting but I didnt expect it to keep those type of records and I thought, since these 
statements had been generated, that it was more likely than not that they had been sent out. 
And as Barclaycard said no post had been returned, and Mr W had only raised the not 
receiving any statements for around 12 years in 2020, I didnt think I could reasonably say 
that Barclaycard would have been aware that there had been any problem with his receiving 
them.
Looking at the account statements, Id seen they clearly set out that because the credit limit
had been exceeded, additional charges were being added. They also showed the amount of
interest being incurred on the balances and that the minimum payments were making little to
no impact on the outstanding balance. But, as set out above, since Barclaycard wouldnt
have known Mr W wasnt receiving this monthly information, I wouldnt have expected it to
take extra steps to raise the issues with the account with Mr W as it had already been 
provided.
Mr W accepted that he wasnt monitoring the account properly and I thought it was 
reasonable to have expected him to have made enquiries with Barclaycard before he had. 
He knew he had a credit card account with an outstanding balance and was making monthly 
payments to it, I was surprised he hadnt wished to consider the outstanding balance before 
he had. I also thought it was reasonable to have expected him to have been aware that he 
wasnt receiving the monthly statements as expected and to have made the necessary 
enquiries long before 2020.
Mr Ws credit card account was one that would be considered to have been in persistent 
debt. That is, he was paying off more in interest and charges then the amount borrowed. In 
September 2018 the FCA said that credit providers must send letters to consumers whose 
accounts have been in persistent debt for 18 months and advise them to increase their 
repayments and if the situation remains after 36 months, then further contact will be made 
about how to clear that debt in a reasonable period of time. As these rules had been 
implemented in September 2018 then I hadnt expected Barclaycard to have made the 
additional contact to Mr W until 2020.
Id seen that Mr W said he had been contacted by Barclaycard about persistent debt in or
around 2019. Barclaycard, however, said that Mr Ws account, although having been
flagged up as being in persistent debt in 2020, hadnt then send out the letter as the account
was defaulted. I wasnt sure what contact Mr W had had, and it may have been by a third-
party company who was managing the account.
But as Barclaycard would have reasonably assumed Mr W was receiving his statements and
the rules as to persistent debt wouldnt yet have applied, I disagreed that Barclaycard should
have done more than it had prior to Mr W making contact in February 2020 to make him
aware of the situation with this credit card account balance.
Looking at the statements, I couldnt say that the charges, fees and interest had been
misapplied by Barclaycard. They had all been in accordance with the credit cards terms and
conditions. I therefore thought the balance on the account was correct.Mr W said that he had found Barclaycard dismissive and difficult to deal with when he had 
made contact and that the relationship between them broke down. Id also seen that there 
had been some confusion as to who had been managing his account since third party 
companies had become involved on behalf of Barclaycard.
I appreciated Barclaycard didnt appear to have provided a very detailed response to Mr W
about why his outstanding balance hadnt reduced much despite the length of time he had
been making monthly payments. But I had seen that it had explained this was due to only 
the minimum payments being made and the interest and charges that had been accruing. 
And while I also accepted it didnt appear Mr W had received the statements from 2008 until 
2016 when he had first asked for them, he did appear to have received statements from 
2016 until 2020. And looking at these, I could see that the credit limit was shown as having 
been exceeded and that the minimum payments were making little difference to the balance 
because of the added interest. These statements also said that the credit limit had been 
exceeded for a long time and fees had been charged. So, I thought the position regarding 
his credit card balance had been made known to him and I didnt think the additional 
statements, although providing the full picture, would have significantly impacted on Mr Ws 
decision to stop making his payments.
Mr W had made the decision to stop his direct debit in February 2020. I appreciated he had 
contacted Barclaycard about his financial circumstances due to covid, but in light of the way 
he had managed his credit card account over many years, I didnt think Barclaycard had 
acted unreasonably by not agreeing to place a hold on the account at that time. Mr W had a 
responsibility to make payments and wasnt entitled to stop them even though he had query 
about the balance.
Barclaycard issued a default notice after around five months of payments having been
missed. It had been entitled to take this action as this was in accordance with the 
agreements terms and conditions. The default notice had been clear as to the 
consequences of not paying the arrears. Mr W said he had been advised the default 
wouldnt be actioned while his complaint with this service was ongoing, but I hadnt seen 
anything that would confirm this, and Barclaycard disagreed this had been said. Id seen 
Barclaycard had put the account on hold for 30 days after the notice was issued, but as no 
payment was received in that time, then I couldnt say Barclaycard hadnt been entitled to 
record the default at the end of that period. Having a complaint considered by this service 
isnt a bar to action being taken. I was sorry that this default had negatively impacted on Mr 
Ws ability to run his business, but Barclaycard hadnt acted unfairly when it made this 
decision.
Mr W said he had received a poor service from Barclaycard in regard to his queries about
the statements and about who had been managing the account. He said Barclaycard had 
told some lies about contacting him and not being able to provide statements from 2008, he 
said it hadnt answered his complaints. Barclaycard said that it had sent copies out to the 
third-party companies who had been managing Mr Ws account to pass on. As set out 
above, while it appeared Mr W hadnt got the copies of the 2008 to 2016 statements until 
later, he had been given information that explained the accounts balance.
Barclaycard had accepted the service Mr W had received, including confusion as to who was
managing his account, hadnt been of the standard that would have been reasonably 
expected. It had paid him compensation of £100 and offered a further £75. Barclaycard had 
also refunded £360 to Mr Ws account as a gesture of goodwill which reflected the over the 
limit fees and late charges that had been applied to Mr Ws account from May 2014.
Looking at the compensation and the gesture of goodwill, I thought Barclaycard had acted fairly in respect of this part of Mr Ws complaint and I wasnt going to ask it to do more.
Mr W says that Barclaycard didnt make a record of many of the conservations he had with it 
but isnt able to provide any more evidence for me to consider. He says he thinks it unfair 
that it defaulted his account during the pandemic and when he was in contact with it. Mr W 
asks if Barclaycard would come to an agreement to remove the default and for him to pay off 
the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at the evidence that has been provided and the conclusions that I reached 
and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr W I havent changed my view.
Im satisfied that Mr W didnt manage his account with Barclaycard as would be reasonably 
expected and that he should have made enquiries about the lack of statements long before 
he did. I dont think any lack of information provided to Mr W about this account before 2020 
was the responsibility of Barclaycard. It hadnt been aware there was an issue with the 
accounts statements over the years.
I also think Barclaycard had provided Mr W with sufficient information as to why the balance 
hadnt been reducing at the point he had made the decision to stop paying in February 2020. 
I dont accept that it was due to Barclaycards actions that Mr W ceased his payments or that 
he had been entitled to take this action. He had an ongoing liability to make the contractual 
payments.
I also dont accept Mr Ws view that Barclaycard had offered to put an indefinite hold on the 
account after it had sent him the default notice and while his complaint with this service was 
ongoing. As set out above, Barclaycard had offered and had placed a 30-day hold on the 
account, but Mr W made no payments in that time towards the balance. The default notice 
had been clear as to what the consequences of not paying would be. 
While I appreciate the default notice was served at the time of the pandemic and that Mr W 
was in touch with Barclaycard at that time, I still think Barclaycard had been entitled to issue 
and activate that default notice. Mr Ws account had been poorly managed before the 
pandemic and then he had ceased payments. Barclaycard had acted reasonably when it 
looked at the history of this account and made the decision to take enforcement steps. I also 
think its letters to Mr W had been clear as to what could happen if payments werent made.
Mr W has made a suggestion as to a way forward, which would include the removal of the 
default. However, it will be for Barclaycard to consider that offer, Im not going to recommend 
it as part of my decision as, for the reasons given, I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly in 
recording that default.
So, for the reasons given Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
As set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman