DRN-1814650
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy he was charged a cancellation fee by Brazier Consulting Services Limited.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr P was contacted by Brazier. Mr P and Brazier spoke on the phone. Brazier 
detailed a list of different lenders, and Mr P explained whether he thought hed had finance 
with those providers in the past. Towards the end of the conversation Brazier explained the 
way it looked for outstanding PPI was using Mr Ps details  such as his name and address. 
And, that it would send Mr P a letter of authority for each of the lenders they had discussed.
Mr P completed the relevant letters of authority and sent these back to Brazier in July 2019. 
And from there Brazier contacted the relevant lenders.
Mr P explained hed later received some communication from one of these lenders, whom Ill 
call lender A, saying that Mr P had made a complaint about it. This wasnt in respect of PPI, 
but instead about whether the lender As decision to provide any finance to Mr P was 
reasonable or not. Mr P told lender A this wasnt a complaint hed made and that he didnt 
authorise Brazier to act on his behalf in respect of this. He thought it was only acting on his 
behalf in respect of PPI.
Lender A let Brazier know it couldnt communicate with it further in December 2019  after 
Mr P had withdrawn his authorisation. Brazier then contacted Mr P, providing him with an 
invoice for a cancellation fee. Brazier has said that because Mr P cancelled his agreement 
outside of the 14-day cooling-off period, he had to pay this fee, which was £96. And it 
explained this was in line with the terms and conditions Mr P had signed. However, it said 
that, as a gesture of goodwill, if any of Mr Ps other claims were successful it would amend 
the fee charged to him  by taking into account what Mr P would have been paid after tax, 
rather than the full amount. 
Mr P disagreed that he owed a cancellation fee. But he paid the invoice for this, as he was 
worried about incurring further charges. Mr P feels he should be reimbursed this £96, 
because he hadnt authorised Brazier to make this particular complaint in the first place. 
Because Brazier didnt agree, Mr P referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review. 
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said she had listened to a 
recording of the initial call between Mr P and Brazier. She noted several finance providers 
were discussed during this call. But not in relation to complaints about the unaffordable or 
unsuitable lending. Instead, she felt the conversation only really referred to PPI claims. And 
therefore, she felt Mr P wasnt aware of what he ultimately signed up to with Brazier in 
respect of the complaint to lender A.
Because she thought Mr P hadnt known Brazier was going to submit an unaffordable 
lending complaint on his behalf, it wasnt fair for him to be charged a cancellation fee at the 
point he realised this and withdrew his authorisation. So, she recommended the cancellation 
fee was returned to Mr P.Mr P agreed. But Brazier didnt. It said;
Mr P would have known it was looking into unaffordable lending complaints, because 
two months prior to referring his complaint to this service, he had received 
correspondence in respect of another lender, detailing what had been looked in to.
It had worked on a number of claims for Mr P, not knowing some loans were 
potentially in arrears  and it would also miss out on its fees for those claims if that 
was the case. Essentially, it was noting it had completed a lot of work on Mr Ps 
behalf, and there was the potential for it not to be paid.
 
Because Brazier disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Ive reviewed the letter of authority sent to Mr P to sign, in respect of lender A. 
This letter of authority said the following;
I/We give authority for Brazier Consulting Services to submit a complaint for any reason 
I/We detail to them (my emphasis) regarding the business. This includes, but is not limited 
to, interest rates, unaffordable lending and suggested lending.
Given the above, its clear Mr P needed to have detailed to Brazier what he wanted to 
complain about, for Brazier to be authorised to make a complaint about particular issues. So, 
Mr P would have needed to detail to Brazier that he wanted to complain to lender A about its 
decision to provide credit to him, as well as detailing that he wanted to raise a complaint 
about possible PPI he had on his account.
Mr P did sign and return the letter of authority to Brazier. So, Ive needed to consider 
whether Mr P explained to Brazier that he wanted it to submit a complaint about 
unaffordable or suggested lending on his behalf, in respect of lender A.
To consider this, Ive listened to the call recording between Mr P and Braziers, prior to the 
letters of authority being sent out to him. This is because this is the conversation in which 
several lenders were discussed, and it was agreed Mr P would review the letters of authority 
and was informed hed need to sign and send these back, in order for Brazier to carry out 
work on his behalf.
As above, during this telephone conversation several lenders were discussed. This included 
reference to packaged bank account and payday lending providers, including lender A. But, 
during the call Brazier didnt mention that a complaint to lender A would be about its decision 
to provide credit to Mr P. And Mr P didnt say anything to suggest he was unhappy about the 
funds lender A had agreed to provide Mr P with. Im satisfied the focus of the call was on PPI 
complaints, and that lenders were discussed in that contact. For example, towards the end 
of the call Brazier explained it didnt need account numbers to trace PPI but would instead 
use Mr Ps personal details to do so. No information was given about pursuing any other 
type of complaint.Given the above, Im satisfied that Mr P didnt detail to Brazier it could make a complaint in 
respect of lender As decision to provide credit to Mr P. So, when Mr P signed the letter of 
authority and returned it, I dont think he was agreeing to Brazier representing him in a 
complaint of that nature. But instead, was giving authorisation for Brazier to look into a PPI 
complaint against lender A. 
Because of this, I think it was reasonable for Mr P to withdraw his consent when he realised 
the complaint that had been made wasnt as discussed and agreed. It therefore follows it 
would be unfair for Mr P to be charged a cancellation fee.
Putting things right
As detailed above, I dont think Brazier acted fairly in charging Mr P a cancellation fee here. 
So, it should reimburse Mr P the £96 cancellation fee he paid to it.
Brazier has mentioned other claims that it has worked on for Mr P. It said it might not get 
paid for other work it had completed for Mr P  because of the potential some accounts were 
in arrears.
It also said Mr P would have known Brazier had made a complaint about lender As decision 
to provide credit. Because Mr P had been sent correspondence from another lender 
referencing unaffordable or irresponsible lending. I havent seen the letter Brazier refers to 
here. Or looked at what happened with complaints made to other lenders. 
But I dont need to  as it doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint. The key thing to 
consider here is what happened at the time Mr P engaged Brazier to work on his behalf, in 
respect of lender A. And as above, Im satisfied Mr P didnt authorise Brazier to look into the 
lending decision made by lender A, and it wasn't made clear to him that this is what Brazier 
would be doing. 
My final decision
My final decision is thatI uphold this complaint. I require Brazier Consulting Limited to refund 
the cancellation fee to Mr P. This is £96.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman