DRN-3212668
The complaint
Mr S complains about his insurer, Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in 
Liechtenstein AG (HSV). His complaint relates to a claim under his mobile phone insurance 
policy for the loss of his phone.
 
HSV uses agents to administer and provide services under the policy, as well as to deal with 
claims and complaints. Reference to HSV in this decision includes those agents. 
What happened
In August 2021 Mr S was travelling on a train when, having left the train, as he came to the 
ticket barriers to use his phone to exit the station, he couldnt find his phone. He spoke to the 
British Transport police at when he discovered the loss, who dialled the number of his phone 
and it rang out. The police advised that pickpockets were known to operate in the area but 
advised Mr S to wait, in case the phone was found and handed in. Mr S checked with 
customer services at the station but his phone wasn't handed in. Mr S then visited the store 
of the service provider to obtain a new SIM and put a block on the phone.
Mr S then lodged a claim with HSV for the loss of his phone under his mobile phone 
insurance. But HSV declined the claim, even though Mr S had been in contact with the 
police and obtained a crime reference number (as Mr S believed that his phone had been 
stolen). HSV declined the claim because they believed Mr S had lost his phone, rather than 
it had been stolen. Under the terms of the policy, cover was provided for accidental damage, 
theft, misuse of equipment and breakdown (outside of the phone manufacturers guarantee 
or warranty period). Loss of the phone wasnt covered.
Mr S was unhappy at his claim being declined and complained to HSV. In their final 
response HSV didnt uphold the complaint. They said when Mr S submitted his claim, hed 
said hed lost his phone and didnt know whether it had fallen out of his pocket. They added 
that while Mr S had contacted the police and been told that pickpockets operated in the area, 
this was after HSV initially declined Mr Ss claim based on what hed said. HSV said Mr S 
hadnt provided any evidence to show that his phone had been stolen and it was supposition 
on his part that it had. HSV added that issue of a crime reference by the police simply 
reflected what Mr S had told them and wasnt proof of theft. HSV also thought that as the 
phone had been in an unfastened pocket, the most likely explanation was that it had been 
lost (rather than stolen). Based on this, they confirmed the decision to decline his claim.
Unhappy at the decline of his claim, Mr S complained to this service. He maintained that his 
phone had been stolen while he was travelling on the Underground, so HSV should have 
accepted his claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He concluded that based on the information and 
evidence available, HSV had come to a fair decision to decline Mr Ss claim. The investigator 
thought that the information provided to HSV initially by Mr S indicated that it was likely the 
phone was lost, rather than stolen.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said that hed provided all the information requested by HSV and that the 
phone hadnt fallen out of his pocket. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether HSV have acted fairly towards Mr S.
The key issue in Mr Ss complaint is whether HSV acted fairly in declining his claim, on the 
grounds that it was likely that his phone had been lost, rather than stolen. As the policy didnt 
cover loss, theyd acted reasonably in declining the claim. Mr S maintains that his phone was 
stolen, not lost, so HSV have acted unfairly in declining his claim.
What isnt in doubt is that Mr S no longer had possession of his phone at the time of his 
being unable to locate it when he came to exit the station at the ticket barriers. During his 
complaint to this service, he provided further information regarding proof of usage of the 
phone and replacement of his SIM. HSV accept this shows that the phone wasnt in his 
possession shortly after he noticed he no longer had it.
 
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions and they clearly exclude cover for Any claim 
for loss. Loss is defined as:
Where the Equipment has been accidentally lost by You in a known location and 
You are permanently deprived of its use.
While Mr S maintains his phone was stolen, HSV say that Mr S initially claimed for loss of his 
phone the day after it went missing. And that he changed this to a possible theft claim after 
they initially declined the claim. HSV also say he hasnt provided evidence to support that 
the loss was due to theft  provision of a crime reference doesnt provide proof of a crime.
 
Ive considered both views carefully, taking account of what Mr S and HSV have said. On 
balance, Im persuaded by what HSV have said and that they acted reasonably to treat the 
disappearance as due to loss, and to decline the claim on those grounds. I know this will be 
disappointing to Mr S, so Ill set out the reasons for that conclusion.
When he made his complaint to this service, Mr S said that at the time he couldnt find his 
phone he thought hed misplaced it and re-traced his steps (but couldnt find it). Mr S also 
said that he waited to see if the phone was handed in after the police had rung the phone 
and it had rung out. This description suggests that Mr S thought the phone had been 
misplaced, rather than stolen. In their final response to Mr  Ss complaint, HSV refer to the 
claim form submitted by Mr S, where he stated: lost my handset I dont know if [it] has 
fallen out of the pocket when I left the train. Ive also thought about what Mr S said about 
the pocket that he kept his phone (front trouser pocket) and whether its likely that it would 
have been stolen without him being aware. On balance, I dont think it is likely. Taken with 
his initial reaction to not being able to locate his phone, then I think it was reasonable for 
HSV to conclude that the phone was lost, rather than stolen.
Ive also considered what Mr S has said about his subsequently being told by the police 
about the presence of pickpockets at the station and that he then obtained a crime reference 
after contacting the police. Mr S maintains that this supports his view that the phone was 
stolen, rather than simply lost. HSV say that the crime reference wasnt provided until seven 
days after the phones disappearance the question of compensation. Thinking about this, I can understand why Mr S  having been told about the presence of 
pickpockets  then considered that his phone may have been stolen, rather than lost. While 
the circumstances of the incidence and absence of any clear evidence mean its not possible 
to form a definitive conclusion, Im not persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that the 
phone was stolen. I also think its not unreasonable for HSV to think that the possible 
presence of pickpockets doesnt prove that his phone was stolen. Nor does Mr Ss 
description of what happened when he lodged his claim indicate the phone had been stolen. 
Ive also noted that he said that when he spoke to police at the station at the time of the 
incident, they referred him to report the loss online as it wasnt obviously stolen and they 
concluded its lost. Im more persuaded by this contemporaneous view than a subsequent 
crime reference obtained later (as I understand it, by a different police force from that at the 
station at the time of the incident).
Taking all these factors into account, Ive concluded that HSV have acted fairly and 
reasonably in considering Mr Ss claim and their decision to decline his claim based on it 
likely to have been lost, rather than stolen.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman