DRN-1741725
The complaint
Mr L has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) didnt correctly change the direct debit to 
pay his credit card from his sole account to his joint account.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them all again
here. Instead I will give a summary and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
In September 2018 Mr L visited a TSB branch to ask it to change the direct debit payment 
for his TSB credit card from his sole account to his joint account. 
Septembers direct debit was taken from Mr Ls sole account, but following Mr Ls visit to the 
branch his October payment wasnt taken from his joint account as he expected  nor was it 
taken from his sole account.
The direct debit payment was never taken from Mr Ls joint account. So from October 2018, 
no payments were made to Mr Ls credit card.
Mr L raised a complaint with TSB in January 2019 after noticing that TSB had recorded late 
payment markers on his credit file. TSB responded to the complaint in February 2019 and it 
accepted that due to a system upgrade around the same time as Mr L changed his payment, 
the payment hadnt been set up correctly. It paid Mr L £100 for the inconvenience the 
situation had caused, and a further £50 to reimburse him for the calls hed had to make to 
sort out the issue. In its response it also directed Mr L to call the credit card team to set up 
the direct debit for future payments.
Mr L didnt agree with TSBs resolution. He believes TSB should remove all of the late 
payment markers from his credit file. I note Mr L says these markers are causing him 
difficulties in moving to a new property, which he needs as he and his wife are disabled and 
their current property is no longer practical for them to live in.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He said that TSB should remove the late 
payment markers from October 2018 to January 2019. But he said that Mr L knew that his 
payments werent being made from around late January 2019. So he said that any late 
payment records from February 2019 had been applied fairly, as Mr L still didnt make any 
payments. 
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Its clear that something went wrong during the direct debit switch from Mr Ls sole 
account to his joint account. And TSB has accepted that  although the information 
Ive seen also suggests the direct debit was in fact set up on the joint account, but 
cancelled. It seems likely that although the direct debit was set up on Mr Ls joint 
account, it continued to be presented to Mr Ls sole account, where the instruction 
had been cancelled. I dont think this is Mr Ls fault, and although theres an 
argument to say Mr L shouldve kept an eye on his bank statements to check that the 
payment was correctly made, I dont think that excuses the fact that TSB made a 
mistake when either setting up the instruction, or presenting the payment request 
from October 2018 onwards. 
Mr Ls credit card statements from November 2018 show the monthly direct debit 
payment being credited to the account and subsequently being debited as an unpaid 
direct debit on the same day. Ive also seen that TSB wrote to Mr L several times 
from November 2018 to let him know that his payment hadnt been made. Ive seen 
copies of three letters from November 2018, and further letters in January 2019, 
March 2019, May 2019, and June 2019. TSB has also sent an extract of its systems 
which suggests that text messages were sent to Mr L in October 2018, November 
2019, and January 2019.  All the correspondence Ive seen makes it clear that Mr Ls 
account is in arrears, and urges him to make a payment or contact TSB to discuss 
his situation. 
I note that Mr L says he didnt make any further payments from February 2019 as he 
had requested to close the credit card account. And I accept that Mr L requested to 
close the account. But I dont think its reasonable to say that hed have thought that 
meant he didnt then have to repay the outstanding balance. Mr L has also provided 
a copy of a letter that TSB sent him following his closure request. This letter was sent 
on 6 February 2019 and says If you have a balance on your account, please 
continue making monthly payments until you have cleared it. So Im satisfied that Mr 
L wouldve been aware that he had to continue making his repayments, even though 
hed requested to close his account.
Mr L raised his complaint at the start of January 2019. He told our investigator that at 
that time he requested TSB reduce his minimum payments as they had increased 
due to previous missed payments. So its fair to say that from that point Mr L was 
aware that his previous payments hadnt been made, although I accept that he may 
not have known exactly why. But as Mr L didnt make any further payments, even 
with this knowledge, I cant say that TSB was unfair to any further adverse 
information about him after that.
Having considered everything, its clear that an error on TSBs part caused the initial issue of 
Mr Ls direct debit not being set up correctly in September 2018. But Im satisfied that by 
January 2019, and most likely before then, Mr L shouldve known his monthly payment 
wasnt being made and his credit card account was in arrears. So I agree that a fair way to 
resolve the complaint is for TSB to remove any adverse information it recorded from October 
2018 to January 2019.But as Im satisfied that Mr L chose not to make his payments after that, despite knowing the 
status of his account, TSB doesnt need to do anything from February onwards. Im also 
satisfied that the £150 TSB has already paid to Mr L adequately compensates him for the 
mistake it initially made. I do recognise that the further late payment markers and the fact 
that TSB subsequently defaulted the account and sold the debt are likely to have a greater 
and ongoing impact on Mr L, but havent concluded that TSB is at fault for that.
Ive noted that Mr L wasnt charged any interest on his balance until December 2018. But he 
was charged interest in December 2018 and January 2019, which TSB refunded in February 
2019. I know Mr L hasnt complained about this, but for completeness I asked TSB about 
why interest started to be charged. TSB has provided evidence to show that Mr L previously 
benefited from a 0% balance transfer rate, which ended in November 2018. So Im satisfied 
the fact he started paying interest in December 2018 wasnt a result of, or related to, the 
missed payments. 
Having considered everything Im upholding this complaint in relation to the late payment 
markers that TSB applied before February 2019. I realise its unlikely that Mr L will agree 
with my findings, but I would like to reassure him that Ive thought carefully about everything 
hes said. And having done so, I think this is a fair outcome.
Putting things right
I require TSB Bank plc to:
Remove any adverse information, such as late payment markers, from Mr Ls credit 
file that it reported between 1 October 2018 and 31 January 2019
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ls complaint and I require TSB Bank plc to do 
what Ive said above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman