DRN-2375043
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined his claim 
for storm damage under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Fs flat roof leaked and the kitchen ceiling collapsed, so he contacted LV to make an 
insurance claim. LV sent a surveyor to assess the damage. It then declined the claim for the 
flat roof, as it said that the damage due to wear and tear rather than a storm. However, it 
agreed to pay for the ceiling to be repaired because it said a one-off storm event caused it to 
come down.
Mr F complained to LV. When LV replied, it maintained its decision to decline the claim for 
the roof. So, Mr F complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said that it was reasonable for LV to turn down the claim for the flat roof on the basis of 
wear and tear.
As Mr F did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Looking at the first question, it doesnt seem to be in dispute that there were storm 
conditions at the time of the claim. I note that LV paid for the kitchen ceiling to be replaced 
on the basis of it being the result of a one-off storm event. Looking at weather reports, Im 
aware that these dont show particularly strong winds or high levels of rainfall around the 
time of the claim.
For the second question, Ive looked at the evidence provided by LV and Mr F. LVs 
surveyors report and photos covered both the internal and external damage. These showed 
a range of issues with the flat roof, including that part of it had sunk, standing water on the 
felt covering and white mould growing on the underside of the roof. LV concluded that these 
showed there were a range of issues with the roof that had happened over a period of time, 
rather than the damage being the result of a one-off storm incident.
Ive also looked at a builders quote Mr F provided. This described the works as To replace 
back storm damaged flat roof by replacing water damaged boards and installing new felt 
roofing. LV and our investigator both tried to contact the builder to get more details, but were 
unable to contact him. Looking at the report, I cant see that this provided any detail that 
showed that the damage was consistent with typical storm damage.
So, I think it was reasonable for LV to rely on its surveyors report and to conclude that the 
damage wasnt consistent with a one-off storm. On that basis, I think that the answer to the 
second question is no.
Given the issues with the roof that the surveyor identified, described above, I also dont think 
that storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. The issues with the roof were 
assessed to be the result of gradual deterioration or wear and tear. Having read the policy 
documents, I can see that these said gradual deterioration and wear and tear werent 
covered by the policy. So, I think it was reasonable for LV to turn down the claim on that 
basis.
Im aware that Mr F has said that he cant see how the damage to the ceiling was accepted 
as storm damage when the roof damage wasnt. However, in my view, the ceiling damage 
being accepted doesnt mean that the roof damage also had to be. There were a range of 
issues with the roof. LV previously explained to Mr F that the particle boards were sodden 
due to long term exposure to water. They sagged between the timbers and resulted in the 
felt tearing and the rain then causing the internal damage. So, I think it was reasonable that 
although LV dealt with the internal damage that it didnt deal with the roof damage.
Mr F had accidental damage cover as part of his policy, so Ive also considered whether the 
damage to the roof should be covered under that part of the policy. The policy described 
accidental damage as:
damage caused suddenly by external means which is not expected and not deliberate.
The damage to the roof therefore needed to be caused suddenly. However, the surveyors 
report showed the damage wasnt caused suddenly, but over a period of time. So, I dont 
think that the roof damage was covered by the accidental damage part of the policy either.
Im aware that Mr F said that he didnt think the wording of the policy was clear. Having 
looked at the wording, I think it was typical of what I would expect to see in this type of policy 
and havent seen anything that makes me think that it was unclear.
Mr F also said that he didnt think that this claim, and a separate one shortly before this 
claim, should be recorded against his policy or affect future premiums. However, insurers 
are required to record accurate information about claims. The ceiling part of the storm 
damage claim and the other, separate, claim were both accepted, so it was reasonable for 
LV to record this. How LV calculates premiums is a business decision and it was entitled to 
take the claims into account when it considered future premiums if it wished to do so. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that LV acted unreasonably.
So, on the basis of all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require LV to do anything 
further.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman