DRN-3186326
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how HSBC Bank UK Plc have serviced a loan he had with them and 
dealt with a COVID-19 payment holiday request.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr C and HSBC. I wont repeat in 
detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the 
reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Mr C took out a loan with HSBC for Professional studies in 2008. In April 2020 Mr C got in 
touch with HSBC to request a COVID-19 payment holiday be applied to this loan. 
Mr C says it was initially unclear as to whether or not the payment holiday had been 
approved and added. Mr C was unhappy as he says he was given incorrect information at 
different points of contact by HSBC. Mr C also said HSBC had made an error with the 
interest charged on the loan - which he says meant the agreement was unenforceable. As a 
resolution, Mr C wanted the remaining balance of his loan written off. 
HSBC looked into his complaint and issued several final response letters addressing 
different issues raised. They accepted theyd made mistakes and not handled things as well 
as they wouldve liked. HSBC upheld Mr Cs complaint in part and in total offered 
approximately £3,600 compensation to put things right.
Mr C remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service for an independent review. 
Our investigator felt that the resolution offered by HSBC was fair and didnt recommend that 
they needed to do anything further. 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators findings so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
As Mr Cs complaint concerns a number of different points, for ease Ive included headings 
below.
The interest Mr C was charged
Mr C says HSBC have been charging him an incorrect interest rate for a number of years. 
HSBC accept that they identified an error with the interest rate being changed around 2015 
when the loan started following the Bank of England base rate - and have since corrected it. 
However, theyve said they cant show that Mr C was made aware of this in 2015. HSBC 
believe Mr C was overpaying on his repayments until July 2020. HSBC have now refunded 
what they say is the estimated amount of additional interest Mr C wouldve likely been 
charged. 
Mr C says because HSBC didnt notify him that the interest rate had changed, the loan 
hasnt been serviced properly and the loan agreement is unenforceable. Hes referred to the 
loan terms. Ive considered a copy of the loan agreement signed in 2008 and the relevant 
terms are clause 8 and 12. Clause 8 refers to any interest rate change being advertised in 
three prominent national newspapers and clause 12 refers to HSBC giving Mr C seven days 
notice in writing about any changes.
HSBC havent shown that they did either of the above and have referred to staff resourcing 
and this type of loan not being offered any more as the reasons why. This is disappointing. 
An internal HSBC system note from July 2015 states: Int rate amended to correct rate of 2% 
above base today. Prev 2.75%. A refund of interest totalling £2,173.03 was applied to the 
loan account reducing the overall balance owed. However it seems this wasnt 
communicated to Mr C. The only correspondence Ive seen evidence of being sent was 
dated November 2017 and outlined that following an annual review repayment will increase 
to £441.29 and the interest rate being charged at that point was 2.5%.
Does this failing make the loan agreement unenforceable? 
Ive then gone on to consider whether this means the agreement is unenforceable as Mr C 
argues. The loan agreement sets out that the interest rate will be charged at 2% above the 
banks base rate. 
As explained above, around 2015 this changed to track the Bank of England base rate 
instead. Although I accept that Mr C wasnt told of this change and therefore wouldnt have 
had good reason to actively follow what the Bank of England base rate was, Ive concluded 
that even though it was poor of HSBC not to notify Mr C of this change, in this specific case, 
my opinion is that this failing hasnt made a material difference to Mr C. I say this because 
Im not persuaded Mr C would have done anything different had he been informed of the 
change and HSBC has since ensured he was charged the correct amount of interest. But if 
Mr C wants to pursue this point further hed need to do so through the courts as questions 
around enforceability are ultimately a matter for them. 
The overpayments
HSBC accept that Mr C has lost out because of their failing  by overpaying each month 
afterwards. When considering the impact of this error on Mr C, Ive kept in mind that Mr C 
kept up with his repayments until the confusion around the COVID-19 payment holiday 
(which Ill address later in the decision) and the loan has now been repaid in full. 
Specifically for the interest rate issue, HSBC have refunded Mr C around £790 (in addition to 
the separate amount of around £2,700 in 2015). 
No compelling evidence has been provided by Mr C to dispute the overpayment figure. 
HSBC have shown our Service the calculation used to reach this figure and, on balance, Im 
reasonably satisfied that its likely reflective of the overpayments made by Mr C.  
Mr Cs request to add a payment holidayHSBC have accepted that they made numerous errors when dealing with Mr Cs request for 
a COVID-19 payment holiday. This included giving him incorrect or inaccurate information at 
various points and being passed to incorrect teams to deal with his query. Based on what 
Ive seen, this error arose out of HSBC not initially having the option for a payment holiday 
for this type of loan.
Ive considered what the impact on Mr C has been and what HSBC have done to try and put 
things right. I accept that the various issues here will have caused Mr C annoyance, 
frustration and uncertainty. Im satisfied that Mr Cs credit file hasnt been negatively 
impacted by how HSBC handled the payment holiday request. When Ive considered that 
HSBC have awarded Mr C:
a total of over £600 for any trouble and upset caused by this issue; 
refunded the £454 he needed to borrow off family to cover a loan repayment; and 
refunded three monthly payments totalling £1,612,
Im of the opinion that this goes far enough to recognise the impact on Mr C and puts things 
right for him.
Summary
Overall, Im satisfied that HSBC have done enough to put Mr C back in the position hed 
have likely been in had their failings with the interest rate change not being communicated 
and their handling of his payment holiday request not happened. I dont require them to do 
anything further.
My final decision brings to an end what we as a service - in trying to informally resolve 
Mr Cs dispute with HSBC - can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman