DRN-2339041
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc gave him incorrect information about a foreign 
currency purchase and transfer he was intending to make.
What happened
Mr W called Bank of Scotland in February 2020 to ask about a foreign currency purchase 
and transfer he was considering. He was told that he could make the transfer in a single 
transaction. However, this information turned out to be incorrect and Mr W actually had to 
make the transfer as two separate transactions.
Mr W wasnt happy about this and so he called Bank of Scotland to complain. Mr W has 
Aspergers Syndrome which makes him prone to stress and anxiety in situations including 
long conversations and telephone calls. Mr W was unhappy with the amount of time that 
Bank of Scotland kept him on the telephone in order to take his complaint, especially 
considering that he informed Bank of Scotland that he suffered with Aspergers Syndrome 
and the effects that this had on him.
Bank of Scotland upheld Mr Ws complaint and made offers of compensation totalling £75 for 
the inconvenience Mr W had incurred as well as a further £12 for the cost of the telephone 
call that Mr W had to make. Mr W didnt think Bank of Scotlands response went far enough, 
and he wasnt happy with how Bank of Scotland had handled his complaint and had kept him 
on the telephone for so long. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the offers of compensation 
that Bank of Scotland had made were reasonable, given what had happened here. So, they 
didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. Our investigator also noted that Mr Ws complaint about how 
Bank of Scotland had handled his complaint, including the amount of time it had kept Mr W 
on the telephone, fell outside the remit of this service and so wasnt something that we could 
look at for him.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with the response of our investigator, so the matter was escalated to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can sympathise with Mr W here, and Im aware of the anxiety that can be felt by people 
who suffer with Aspergers Syndrome when they find themselves in circumstances such as 
those that Mr W experienced during the lengthy telephone call to Bank of Scotland. Indeed, 
this business would certainly expect Bank of Scotland to have recorded the details of Mr Ws 
condition and make the necessary amendments moving forwards.
Unfortunately, this aspect of Mr Ws complaint isnt something that Im able to consider in 
this instance. The reason for this is that the long telephone conversation that Mr W describes 
was a part of Bank of Scotlands complaint handling process. This means that Mr W is 
unhappy here about how Bank of Scotland handled his complaint with them. And, as our 
investigator has correctly explained, this service doesnt have the power to look at 
complaints which are made about the complaint handling process of a business. This means 
that, while I can understand Mr Ws frustration here, this aspect of his complaint falls outside 
of the remit of what this service is able to consider.
Because of this, I have restricted my review to the events that led to Mr W making his 
complaint in the first instance  specifically, that Mr W was told incorrectly that he would be 
able to make the transfer as one transaction. Bank of Scotland dont dispute that they 
provided incorrect information here, and they have made offers of compensation to Mr W as 
a result of this. So, I have to consider whether I think that the offers of compensation made 
by Bank of Scotland to Mr W  which total £87, as described in the preceding section  are 
fair and reasonable, considering the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr W was told that he could make a transfer as one transaction, but when it came to making 
the transfer it had to be done as two transactions. Mr W has said this caused him 
embarrassment and stress at that time, and I can understand how that would be the case. 
But, having considered all the circumstances, I feel that the offers of compensation that Bank 
of Scotland have already made are appropriate and fair, and I note that the offer of 
compensation that Bank of Scotland have made is commensurate with what this service 
would expect in circumstances such as this. It also must be noted that the transfer did go 
ahead and was made as two transactions at that time, which means that there was no delay 
or material financial impact for Mr W.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr W was wanting, but because I feel that the 
offers of compensation already made by Bank of Scotland are fair and reasonable, it follows 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Bank of Scotland to take any further action 
at this time - other than honouring the offers of compensation they have already made, if 
they havent already done so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not upghold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman