DRN-1300813
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax reduced the credit limit on his 
account despite telling him he didn't need to accept the change and has refused to give him 
the reasons for that reduction.
What happened
Mr R says he received a letter dated 1 March 2019 from Halifax telling him the credit limit on 
his account was being reduced to £3,950 which meant he had used 90% of his credit. He 
says the letter made clear that he didn't need to accept the changes but that would mean the 
agreement ending. Mr R says the only change was the credit limit and so by rejecting that 
change that should have meant his credit limit was retained. He also says Halifax has 
refused to give him the exact reason for the reduction and it shouldn't simply be allowed to 
just say the information is commercially sensitive. Mr R would like his original credit limit 
reinstated and a proper explanation why it was reduced in the first place.
Halifax says it's entitled in line with account terms and conditions to reduce a credit limit and 
its letter to Mr R didn't say the limit would be retained if he rejected the changes. It says it did 
provide reasons why it generally reduces credit limits and doesn't accept making a mistake 
or acting unfairly.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Halifax was entitled to make changes to a credit limit in line with the account terms 
and conditions and isn't obliged to provide the exact reasons. The investigator thought the 
letter on 1 March 2019 told Mr R that he could reject the changes and simply repay the 
balance but not use the account card for further spending.
Me R doesn't agree with that view and says this was a balance transfer and he had no 
intention of using the account for spending. He says the letter in question is clear, that to 
avoid the change(  the reduction to the credit limit) he could do something to avoid that, 
namely cancel the agreement and repay the balance which he has now done. Mr R also 
says  we ought to require Halifax to provide reasons for decisions like this rather than 
accepting what we are told and classing them as fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator but for slightly different reasons which I will explain. I 
appreciate Mr R will be disappointed by my decision and also appreciate how strongly he 
feels about what's taken place.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr R would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And I'm satisfied that Halifax is entitled in line with those 
terms and conditions to reduce a credit limit as it did here. I'm also satisfied that its entitled to make that reduction without providing specific reasons. So I don't think Halifax made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by reducing Mr R's credit limit or by refusing to provide the reasons 
for doing so but I can see that Halifax did provide Mr R with the factors that would influence 
such a decision. I appreciate Mr R says that decision meant he was within 90% of his credit 
limit. But I can also see that he has told us he had no intention of using the credit card for 
spending as this was a balance transfer. So I don't think Halifax's decision had any 
significant impact on Mr R or his ability to spend. 
I agree with what the investigator has told Mr R, that we are not the regulator of banks or 
building societies. And so its not our role to tell a business what information it tells a 
customer about these sorts of decisions or what information it considers commercially 
sensitive. So I don't think Halifax has acted unfairly by making the decision here not to 
provide further information than it has already provided. 
I appreciate that the main point of Mr R's complaint is about the wording in Halifax's letter of 
1 March 2019 and what it says about rejecting the change. I accept the wording is not clear 
and  whilst I can see that Halifax later explained in more detail what it meant, I also accept 
that Mr R was under the impression that by rejecting the change meant he could keep the 
existing credit limit. I accept that is not what was said by Halifax but equally I appreciate why 
Mr R reached the conclusion he did as the only change to be accepted or not was the 
decrease to the credit limit. But I don't think in any event that had any real impact on Mr R as 
he repaid the balance and it may be that his credit file reflects a slightly lower credit limit for 
what was a very short period of time. I can see that Mr R doesn't suggest that would justify 
compensation in any event and I can't fairly order Halifax to amend a credit  limit on an 
account that has been closed.
Overall I'm satisfied that Halifax hasn't acted unfairly or made a mistake in reducing Mr R's 
credit card limit or by not providing the exact reasons. I have explained that I understand the 
reasons Mr R reached the conclusions he did in respect of the letter. But I don't require  
Halifax to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman