DRN-1848964
 
The complaint
Mr K complains about the service he received from Santander UK Plc (Santander) when he 
requested a new debit card and PIN number.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr K and Santander, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in 
any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr K lost his wallet at the beginning of October 2019 and so requested a new debit card and 
PIN from Santander. It took 2 and a half weeks for his card to arrive but a PIN wasnt sent. 
He said he asked for another but didnt receive that either. He then waited another 4 or 5 
weeks before a new PIN came but when it did, it didnt work at the ATM. After a further week 
he requested another debit card but Santander sent him a cash point card which he didnt 
want or ask for. He then waited a further couple of weeks until a new PIN arrived but without 
a card. He complained because he said hed waited about 8 weeks in total and had still not 
received his debit card which meant hed had to travel to branches at great inconvenience to 
get cash out.
Santander accepted there had been some errors and awarded Mr K £20 because they forgot 
to order him a PIN initially. They also accepted that when he called for a new PIN there were 
further errors in blocking his card and sending out a replacement cashpoint card rather than 
a debit card. So they awarded him another £100.
Mr K was unhappy with Santanders offer of compensation and so brought the complaint to 
this service and our investigator looked into it. During the course of the investigation, Mr K 
raised further concerns about the service he received from Santander which he hadnt 
mentioned in his initial complaint.  Our investigator told him we couldnt look at those new 
complaints until he had raised them first with Santander.
When the investigator looked into the matters Mr K had complained about, he came to the 
conclusion that there had been poor service but the amount of compensation offered was 
sufficient to put things right. Mr K didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be 
passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether Santander acted fairly 
and reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that 
Santander has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
Our investigator is correct that we can only deal with those items of complaint which he has 
given Santander the opportunity to respond to first. So, like our investigator, I will not be 
looking at anything beyond the issues he had with ordering a new card and PIN.
Mr K reported his card to be lost or stolen on the 17 October. His card was blocked, a new 
one ordered, and he also asked for a new PIN to be sent out. Santanders records show they 
sent him a PIN on the 24 October. Mr K accepts he received the card but not the PIN. Mr K 
rang again on the 6 November to raise a new complaint that he had been waiting for over 4 
weeks for his PIN. In fact, at that point in time it was 20 days, and so allowing for the 5 to 7 
working days it takes to re-issue a new PIN the delay was about 11 days. 
Santander accepts that they made mistakes in ordering the new PIN for the second time and 
that his account was blocked again and the wrong card re-issued. They accept that this 
added to the delay Mr K experienced. Santander have agreed that it didnt get things right 
and because of that it should compensate Mr K. And so it paid Mr K £20 because it forgot to 
order a new PIN and £100 for sending him the wrong card. As Mr K doesnt believe this is 
sufficient to put matters right, Ive given this some further thought and in so doing Ive 
considered the level of awards this service has made for trouble and upset in similar cases. 
Ive also taken into account, in the light of my findings, the impact the error is likely to have 
had on Mr K.
Mr Ks statements reveal that he was able to make ATM withdrawals on the 23 and 24 
October, which is somewhat odd since his card was blocked on the 17 October. The next 
ATM withdrawal was on the 5 December and so the period in between is exactly 6 weeks. 
During that time he was able to use his account to make other POS purchases however. So 
the inconvenience boils down to getting cash out of the ATMs which he was unable to do, 
although as I say he managed 2 ATM withdrawals on the 23 October and 1 on the 24 
October.
Mr K has said that this matter has had a detrimental effect on his mental and physical health 
and also an effect on other people and his relationships with other people. I am very sorry to 
hear that, but there is no independent medical evidence to support that his health has been 
affected, and nor is there any further detail as to how it has affected his relationships with 
others. Whilst I recognise this incident will have been very frustrating for Mr K, without 
evidence of the effect or impact on him it is difficult to assess what that might have been. I 
have noted Mr K has said that he did not have the funds to travel when he needed to but his 
statements show that he did, since he was able to make cash withdrawals in branch. Having 
said that he was put to time and trouble in having to call Santander to try to sort matters out.
In some complaints, the problems a customer encounters dont just affect them financially, 
and in part that is the case here. Those problems can lead to the customer being caused 
some trouble and upset and it is only right that the business should think about what it could 
do to put matters right. Any award of compensation for trouble and upset caused needs to 
be balanced and measured against the ups and downs of daily life in dealing with other 
people, businesses and organisations, and recognising that that can be inconvenient at 
times.Putting all of this into the balance I think what Santander paid is fair and reasonable. And I 
think it is enough to put matters right. So, although Mr K will probably be disappointed with 
my decision, and whilst Santander has indeed made errors, I cant say Santander has 
subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Santander has already paid £120 to settle this complaint, and that is fair and reasonable. So 
my final decision is that I dont require Santander to do anything else.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman