DRN-4151736
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings) dealt with his 
new motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R took out motor insurance with Hastings. As part of its validation checks process, 
Hastings asked him for information about a previous claim. Mr R sent Hastings a copy of the 
letter confirming that the accident that led to the claim wasnt his fault, but Hastings wouldnt 
accept it in the format Mr R had sent it, and asked for a copy in a different format.
Mr R wasnt happy with this and complained to Hastings. Hastings said Mr R had taken the 
policy out via a price comparison website and when the policy came through to Hastings, it 
underwent validation checks as previous quotes Mr R had run had different information 
about the previous claim. Hastings said it had requested evidence of Mr Rs claims history 
from him as the previous insurer wouldnt provide this information. Hastings said the onus 
was therefore on Mr R to provide the information requested and in an acceptable format.
Mr R wasnt happy with Hastings response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. He said Hastings hadnt acted unreasonably by asking Mr R to 
provide information about his claim history from his previous insurer. He said the information 
Hastings wanted and the format they wanted it in wasnt unusual or onerous for Mr R to 
provide.
Mr R wasnt happy with what the investigator said and so his complaint has been passed to 
me. Mr R wants Hastings to pay him £100 compensation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Hastings told this service that it often requests validation information based on previous 
quote data where it identifies that differing information has been entered to that which was 
incepted, to ensure that polices are not being created either fraudulently or against levels of 
risk which are inappropriate, as is common practise throughout the industry.
Hastings said not all insurers are willing to share claims information with it directly and it 
prefers to obtain the claims information from the customer to ensure they are involved in 
their data being shared. Hastings said Mr Rs previous insurer is one of the insurers that 
wont share any claims or convictions data with it directly.
Hastings has also told this service that its fraud team is able to identify if a document in its 
preferred format has been edited to demonstrate more favourable claims data, which is why 
this format is requested. 
Mr Rs insurance policy documents with Hastings state:
Documents we may ask for
It's a condition of your Policy that you supply us with any information or documents that your 
Insurer may ask to see to support the details you gave when you applied for your Policy.
So in the circumstances of this case I think it was fair and reasonable for Hastings to ask Mr 
R to provide information about the previous claim and in its chosen format. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. So I wont be asking Hastings 
Insurance Services Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman