The complaint
Mr C complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
This complaint is about the 6 instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mr C between 
November 2016 and June 2019. His borrowing history is set out below.
Loan Amount Date Repaid
1 £300 28/11/2016 24/02/2017
2 £750 12/05/2017 29/09/2017
3 £640 01/12/2017 02/12/2017
4 £400 06/12/2017 28/02/2018
5 £200 22/11/2018 07/03/2019
6 £300 20/06/2019 30/09/2019
Mr C said that Mr Lender provided multiple loans to him for significant amounts and that 
further checks should have been carried out to ensure the loans were affordable. Had this 
happened he said that Mr Lender would have seen that the loans shouldnt have been 
provided.
Mr Lender said that the checks carried out before the loans were provided were 
proportionate.
Our adjudicator noted that there was a significant gap between the repayment of loan 4 and 
loan 5 being provided. Therefore, he said that a new lending relationship started at loan 5. 
Based on the information provided he didnt uphold this complaint. 
Mr C didn't agree with our adjudicator's view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We've set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
DRN-1447554Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
In this case, there were breaks between the loans being repaid and new loans being taken 
out. There were breaks between loans 1 and 2 and loans 2 and 3 of around two months but 
then loan 4 was taken out a few days after loan 3 was repaid. There was then a break of 
over eight months between loan 4 being repaid and loan 5 being provided. While I note the 
breaks between the earlier loans, I think that the first four loans formed part of a single 
lending chain. Given the size of the break between loans 4 and 5 I think it reasonable to 
accept that loan 5 started a new lending chain.
The first lending chain consisted of four loans. Before the loans were provided, information 
was gathered on Mr Cs income and expenses. Given the size of the repayments compared 
to Mr Cs declared income I find that these checks were proportionate. The checks 
suggested the loans were affordable. Mr C was repaying his loans before taking out new 
loans and, in the case of loans 2 and 3, there were gaps between the lending. Given this I do 
not find that further checks were required and based on the information gathered I find it 
reasonable these loans were provided.
Loans 5 and 6 were part of a new lending chain. The loans were for lower amounts 
than most loans in the first lending chain. Given these were the first two loans in the new 
lending chain, and noting the repayment amounts compared to Mr Cs income, I think that 
the checks carried out before the loans were provided were proportionate. As these didnt 
raise concerns about the affordability of the loans, I do not find I can say these loans 
shouldnt have been provided.
Overall, I find that the checks carried out before the loans were provided were proportionate 
and as these suggested the loans were affordable, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about PDL Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman