DRN-4486801
The complaint
Mr W complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled his commercial vehicle 
insurance claim poorly. 
What happened
In mid-July 2023 Mr W made a claim against his Admiral van insurance policy. His tipper 
truck had been damaged in a collision. Admiral said it considered the truck a total loss. A few 
days later Admiral decided it was repairable. 
Around a month after the incident Mr W complained to Admiral. His main concern was losing 
income. His truck hadnt been repaired and he hadnt received a courtesy van. So had lost 
income as he was unable to fulfil contracts.  
In mid-August 2023 Admiral responded to Mr Ws complaint. It accepted he hadnt been 
provided with a courtesy vehicle. It said it would make a payment to recognise his loss of 
use. It said £170 was to cover 17 July 2023 to 3 August 2023. It also said it would consider 
any evidence of lost earnings. It offered £300 compensation in recognition of upset caused 
by various mistakes  including a delay to authorisation of repairs. 
Mr W was then referred to a provider of hire vehicles. Ill refer to it as A. 
Mr W provided evidence to Admiral for his loss of earnings claim. In response it issued a 
further complaint final response on 6 September 2023.  It felt his evidence was insufficient. It 
said invoices didnt relate to the period he didnt have access to a van. So it didnt offer any 
payment for loss of earnings. Neither did it agree to reimburse Mr W a loan he had made to 
his company during the relevant period. Admiral said he should provide loss of earnings 
evidence from an accountant. It did offer a further £170 loss of use payment for 4 August to 
21 August. This was to cover a period when A had failed to provide a vehicle. 
 
On 15 September 2023 Admiral reviewed the complaint again. It explained to Mr W that his 
policy, in respect of a courtesy vehicle, only provided for a car derived van  rather than a 
tipper like the insured vehicle. So it said it wouldnt pay any loss of earnings. It said even 
with a courtesy vehicle Mr W couldnt have performed his contracts. It added it wasnt 
responsible for A having delayed provision of a vehicle. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied so asked this service to consider his complaint. He said if Admiral had 
referred him to A earlier, he probably wouldnt have lost various contracts and income. He 
wants it to reimburse him more than £25,000 in lost earnings.  
Our Investigator felt Mr W hadnt provided enough to show a loss of earnings. He felt 
Admirals request for evidence from his account to be reasonable. He said a courtesy van, 
as offered by the policy, if provided probably wouldnt have been suitable for Mr W to 
undertake his work anyway. He considered the £340 loss of use and £300 compensation 
payments from Admiral to be fair. Mr W didnt accept that outcome. He requested an 
ombudsman consider the complaint. 
The complaint was passed to me. Ive first set out what Ive considered in this decision. Im 
doing so in case Mr W refers a further complaint about this claim to this service. Ive 
considered Admirals action up until its 15 September 2023 correspondence - when it 
pointed out Mr Ws policy only provides for a car derived van. 
I havent considered the actions of A, or the impact that may have had on Mr W. Ive not 
seen enough, so far, to persuade me it was acting as an agent of Admiral  which would 
allow me to consider its actions as being those of Admiral. Admirals denied responsibility for 
As actions at points. But in its 6 September 2023 complaint response it offered a loss of use 
payment for A not providing a hire car. So As relationship with Admiral, for this claim, isnt 
clear. Its also not clear if Mr W has or will be making a loss of earnings claim to A. If he 
does, he may wish to bring a complaint about its response to this service. So for practical, 
and potentially jurisdictional, reasons I havent considered the actions of A here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr W and Admiral have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be 
key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything provided. Having done so, Im not going to require Admiral to cover any lost 
earnings or to do anything differently. 
Admiral did cause unnecessary delays in repairing Mr Ws van. It also failed to provide the 
car derived van Mr Ws policy allowed for. It may have unfairly delayed his referral to A. 
However, I cant fairly say its response to the evidence he provided regarding his alleged 
loss of earnings was unreasonable. 
Admirals made a reasonable point about the courtesy vehicle. If it had been provided, it was 
likely unsuitable for the role performed by a tipper truck. Its also made a fair suggestion that 
that it would expect Mr W to have attempted to mitigate any loss. 
However, even if I overlook those two points, Mr W hasnt provided reasonable evidence of 
loss. As far as Ive seen he provided a range of purchase orders and invoices, a few bank 
statements and a few photos. He says he also provided some diary entries for jobs. His 
submission was accompanied by a headline summary of the impact. This outlines a negative 
effect on commercial client relationships. It provides brief details of a few jobs that couldnt 
be fulfilled. 
The evidence though, doesnt provide a detailed breakdown of potential income lost, 
unavoidable costs  or profit loss/estimates. Neither does it explain what mitigation steps 
were taken or detail any costs avoided. Theres no accounts of historic or projected trade. 
The bulk of the submission is made up with purchase orders and invoices that, on the face of 
it, dont appear to have an obvious relationship to the period in question. Theres no detailed 
commentary to provide an understanding of their relevance. 
Mr Ws reported fairly high loses and fixed expenditure. I understand its been a frustrating 
experience for him. But for an outfit of that size and likely turnover it would be reasonable for 
him to be able to provide some more specific and persuasive evidence of loss. Its been 
requested several times but unfortunately hasnt been submitted. So I cant say Admirals 
decline of his loss of earnings, based on what hes provided so far, is unfair or unreasonable. Admirals offered loss of use, at £10 per day, for the period it failed to provide a courtesy 
van. Its also offered £300 compensation for the inconvenience it caused Mr W. I accept 
these amounts are far off the loss of earnings Mr Ws asking to be covered. But I feel, 
without reasonable evidence of those losses, Admirals offer for the part its played in the 
claim is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman