DRN-3952050
The complaint
Mr H complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent him an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
Everyday Loans lent Mr H one loan in July 2019, the loan was for £2,100 to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of £197. Mr H has fully repaid the loan.
When Mr H complained to Everyday Loans, it didnt uphold his complaint, so he referred his 
complaint to this service where one of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. Our 
adjudicator thought Everyday Loans checks went far enough but he didnt think Everyday 
Loans should have lent based on the results of its checks.
Everyday Loans disagreed, it said Mr H was consolidating his borrowing and as he lived with 
his parents and had no dependents, the disposable income he had was sufficient. As the 
complaint hasnt been resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer could repay without borrowing further or suffering 
significant adverse consequences.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed was due to be repaid. A business should also take into account and 
react appropriately to what it knew about the consumer at the time it made its lending 
decision.
Everyday Loans has provided evidence to show that before lending, it searched Mr Hs 
credit file, asked about his monthly income and living expenses, including credit 
commitments. Everyday Loans also verified some of the information Mr H provided by 
requesting bank statements. The reason for the loan was debt consolidation. 
Everyday Loans has argued that it lent Mr H a loan for consolidation which was supposed to 
improve his overall financial circumstances. It has also said Mr H lived with his parents and 
had no dependents. This meant that he was in a position to afford to repay the loan over its 
term.
Ive looked at the consolidation Everyday Loans took into account and from what I can see, 
including the repayment of this loan, Mr H was due to repay a significant amount of his 
monthly income towards credit. With the debt consolidation, Mr H was still due to repay more 
monthly with this loan compared to his situation had he not taken the loan, so I dont think 
the debt consolidation improved Mr Hs finances. The total monthly payments on his 
consolidated borrowing was around £178.89, less than the loan repayment.
I appreciate that Mr H declared he had no dependents and was living with parents but 
repaying over half of his monthly income towards unsecured credit is significant. Everyday 
Loans checks revealed this and I think at the time of lending it should have seen that it was 
highly likely Mr H would struggle to repay the loan over the two year term.
Everyday Loans will know it wasnt just meant to check whether Mr H could afford the loan 
repayment on a pounds and pence calculation but it needed to be sure Mr H could sustain 
the repayments over the loan term. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Everyday Loans should:
refund all interest and charges applied to the loan, and
add interest at 8% per year simple on the refunded sums from the date they were paid, 
if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file as a result of this loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. Everyday Loans 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman