DRN-4328615
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) didnt 
treat them fairly when the term of their interest only mortgage expired. Mr M has dealt with 
the complaint throughout. 
Mr M asks that Birmingham Midshires writes off unpaid interest applied since the mortgage 
term expired and allows him to take out an equity release product to repay most of the 
mortgage. He asks that Birmingham Midshires accepts security on a buy to let property to 
cover the shortfall, or writes it off.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Birmingham Midshires in 2005. The mortgage was 
recommended by a broker. Originally, part was on a repayment basis. In 2007 Mr and Mrs M 
asked for all of the mortgage to be on an interest only basis. The term of Mr and Mrs Ms 
interest only mortgage expired in April 2022 with an unpaid balance of about £230,000.
Mr and Mrs M complain that Birmingham Midshires:
didnt tell them interest rate would be applied at a higher rate after the term expired. 
Mr M says if hed known hed have adapted his plans. He asks that the interest is written 
off.
didnt agree to the options he put forward to repay the balance owed. Mr M says he can 
take out an equity release product to repay most of the mortgage if Birmingham 
Midshires accepts security on his buy to let property to cover the shortfall, or writes it off.
Our investigator said Birmingham Midshires wasnt obliged to tell Mr and Mrs M it would 
continue to apply interest after the term expired. She said Birmingham Midshires hadnt 
extended the term, but had given grace periods for Mr and Mrs M to put forward proposals to 
repay the balance. 
As Mr and Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to re-
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Interest applied since the mortgage term expired
Mr M says he called Birmingham Midshires each month after the mortgage term expired to 
update it. Mr M had to make these calls to Birmingham Midshires end of term team so that it 
would hold recovery activity on the account.
Mr M says despite this regular contact, Birmingham Midshires didnt tell him the interest rate 
applied to his account had increased. He says he only found this out when he received a 
redemption statement in early 2023 and saw the mortgage balance had increased.
I dont think it was unfair for Birmingham Midshires to continue to apply interest to the 
mortgage balance while it remained outstanding. The annual statement sent to Mr and Mrs 
M in April 2022 said the mortgage was on a variable rate. It also said that its variable rate 
can change at any time. 
Birmingham Midshires says it doesnt re-calculate monthly payments when a mortgage term 
has expired. Thats because its expecting the balance to be repaid. 
Mr M says he received letters from Birmingham Midshires about the interest rate but paid no 
attention to them. He says Birmingham Midshires end of term team said while recovery 
action was on hold hed continue to receive standard letters which he could disregard. 
It's unfortunate Mr M didnt read the letters about the changes in the interest rate, especially 
given media coverage about interest rises in 2022. But I think Birmingham Midshires made 
Mr and Mrs M aware that their mortgage was on a variable interest rate which could change. 
In response to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, Birmingham Midshires gave them the monthly 
interest amount and offered to recalculate the monthly payment. It said it could arrange to 
collect this by direct debit. As Mr and Mrs M didnt agree to this or increase their monthly 
payments to cover the interest, I dont think I can fairly find theyd have done so if 
Birmingham Midshires had offered this earlier. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Birmingham Midshires to 
refund or write off the interest. 
Mr M says hell take this matter to court as he considers Birmingham Midshires are in breach 
of contract. If Mr and Mrs M dont accept my decision, they will be free to take the matter to 
court.
Repayment of the mortgage balance
Mr M explained their family circumstances which make it important for them to keep the 
property. Im sorry for Mrs Ms recent health issues and wish her a swift recovery.
What I need to consider here is whether its fair and reasonable to require Birmingham 
Midshires to accept Mr Ms proposal that he repays most of the mortgage by taking out an 
equity release product and Birmingham Midshires writes off the shortfall or accepts a 
secured loan. While Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed, I dont think it is.
When Mr and Mrs M took out the mortgage they agreed to repay it on or before the expiry 
date. I think Mr and Mrs M are in a position to repay the mortgage balance in full. 
Mr and Mrs M were offered an equity release product which would have funded repayment 
of most of the mortgage. The offer has lapsed. But I havent seen anything to suggest that 
they wouldnt be able to source an equity release product. 
Mr and Mrs M also have buy to let properties. Birmingham Midshires says Mr and Mrs Ms 
intention had been to repay the mortgage by selling buy to let properties. In early 2022 Mr M told Birmingham Midshires he didnt want to do this as he was receiving income from the 
tenants and didnt think it was a good time to sell. 
Mr M recently sold a buy to let property. He says he used the funds for work to the property 
and wants to keep some funds for emergencies. 
Mr M says he wants to improve the property to increase its value, and therefore the amount 
they can raise with an equity release product. He said he might take out a bridging loan to 
repay the mortgage with Birmingham Midshires and finish the work to the property so that he 
can re-apply for an equity release product.
The mortgage term expired in April 2022. Birmingham Midshires offered grace periods which 
now total about 18 months. I think this was fair and allowed reasonable time for Mr and 
Mrs M time to complete improvements to their property to increase its value, market and sell 
buy to let properties, take independent financial advice and otherwise explore their options to 
repay the mortgage without selling the property. 
Mr and Mrs M have savings and assets they can use to repay the mortgage or any shortfall 
after taking out an equity release product. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Birmingham Midshires to write off part of the debt, accept a new debt or wait for the 
mortgage debt to be repaid so that Mr and Mrs M can use the money for other purposes, 
such as investment in buy to let properties. 
Other matters
Mr M says they were declined a term extension about three years prior to the term expiring, 
and Birmingham Midshires hasnt offered this since. As this wasnt part of the complaint 
brought to us I cant consider it here.
Mr M has also said the mortgage was mis-sold. He says Birmingham Midshires should have 
looked more closely at their financial situation in 2005 (when they took out the mortgage) 
and in 2007 (when they switched to interest only). He considers that rules on mortgage 
regulation in force from 2014 mean that Birmingham Midshires became responsible for 
checking the borrowing was affordable in 2005 and 2007 and it cant hide behind his broker. 
Mr M said they didnt want us to look into this aspect of their complaint, as they are pursuing 
this issue with a different entity.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman