DRN-3021254
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifaxs decision to block and 
subsequently close their account. They say this caused significant distress and ruined a 
family holiday  so theyd like compensation. 
What happened
 In July 2019, Mr O attended his local Halifax branch to withdraw some money for a family 
holiday. When he attempted the withdrawal, he was advised that his account was blocked, 
and hed need to go to another branch to sort things out. Mr O was travelling abroad with his 
family the day after and needed the money for their trip. He spent over two hours in branch, 
but the issue couldnt be resolved. Mr O was told the account should be unblocked by the 
time he and Mrs O returned from their holiday.
Mr and Mrs O had to rely on friends and family lending them money for their holiday. While 
Mr and Mrs O were able to borrow money from family and friends, they didnt get the full 
amount they would have withdrawn in branch. They said this had a significant impact on 
their holiday as they couldnt enjoy all of the attractions and had to spend time cooking in 
their hotel instead of eating out.
When Mr and Mrs O returned from their holiday, they learned their account was still blocked. 
Mrs O went into branch, the advisor at Halifax informed Mrs O that her and Mr Os account 
was under investigation. Shortly afterwards they received a letter confirming that there was a 
processing delay on their account.
In August 2019, Mr and Mrs O received a letter from Halifax informing them that their 
accounts would be closing in 65 days. The accounts were subsequently closed in 
November 2019, with the remaining balance in the account being paid to Mr and Mrs O.
Halifax didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. They said they couldnt override the 
processing delay and its not in their process to inform the customer. Mr and Mrs O remained 
unhappy, so brought their complaint to our service.
The investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Os complaint. She reached out to Halifax on a number 
of occasions for more information on why the block occurred so she could conclude whether 
Halifaxs actions were fair. Halifax didnt respond with sufficient information, so the 
investigator asked that they pay Mr and Mrs O £500 compensation for the inconvenience.
Halifax didnt respond to the investigators view. Mr and Mrs O did  but they didnt think 
£500 compensation was enough for the trouble theyd experienced. They said Halifax ruined 
their family holiday which was to celebrate a milestone birthday for Mr O.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I think Halifax should pay compensation to Mr and Mrs O to put things 
right. Ive explained further below.
Halifax are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. I can see thats whats happened 
with Mr and Mrs Os account.
In order for me to be satisfied that Halifaxs actions were appropriate in the circumstances, 
Id need to see evidence of why their review was initiated, and what actions they took during 
the review. Halifax hasnt shared that information with our service, so I cant confidently say 
their actions were reasonable. 
Following their review, Halifax decided to end their relationship with Mr and Mrs O. Banks 
sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a number of 
reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer  only to meet the 
account closure terms and conditions. Just the same as if Mr and Mrs O decided to stop 
banking with Halifax, they wouldnt have to explain why. Halifax can only close accounts in 
certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of the account. Halifax have 
relied on and complied with the terms and conditions when closing Mr and Mrs Os account 
 and gave the appropriate notice to allow them time to find alternative banking facilities. 
Ive thought carefully about the impact this overall situation had on Mr and Mrs O. They say it 
ruined a family holiday they had planned for Mr Os birthday because they couldnt withdraw 
money to spend during their trip. Ive seen evidence of Mr and Mrs Os holiday, so Im 
satisfied these plans were in place before the account block. However, when deciding 
compensation, its difficult to make awards in hindsight. I havent seen anything to show that 
Mr and Mrs O couldnt carry out any particular activities or attractions on their holiday, so I 
cant be certain of what they would have done, had they had access to their money. 
Nonetheless, banks cant always guarantee that funds in an account will be readily available, 
because they have broader regulations in which they need to comply.  
Putting things right
Overall, I recognise the distress this situation had on Mr and Mrs O and I havent seen 
enough to satisfy me that Halifaxs actions were appropriate. So, I think a compensation 
payment of £500 is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
should do the following:
Pay Mr and Mrs O £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman