DRN-3948174
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by Joslin Rhodes Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited 
(JR) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension (PP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
Mr Bs complaint has been brought on his behalf by a professional representative, but for 
ease, Ill mainly refer throughout the decision as the complaint being brought by Mr B.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. BSPS was closed 
to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
Mr B met with JR in 2016 to discuss his pension and retirement needs as he was concerned 
about the situation with the BSPS. At the time Mr B was 55 years old, earning between 
£30,000 and £35,000 per year. It was recorded that Mr B and his wife had around £11,000 in 
savings and wanted to move house in the near future which they estimated would require 
around an extra £30,000. It was recorded that Mr B wished to retire at age 58.
JR completed a fact-find and gathered information about Mr Bs circumstances and 
objectives. JR also carried out an assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk, which it deemed to 
be cautious. JR noted that, based on answers Mr B had provided, the risk he was willing to 
take was lower than 99.8% of all results.
On 29 September 2016, JR advised Mr B not to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension. In November 2016, JR set out advice on how Mr B could proceed if he wished to 
transfer his pension still. It explained this was against its advice and it would be treating him 
as an insistent client.
Mr B decided to proceed with transferring his DB pension to a PP in November 2016. Mr B 
wrote a letter confirming he was aware that he was going against JRs advice but wished to 
proceed with the transfer. He said, in summary, he understood the risk and was willing to 
accept it as he wanted to enjoy the money whilst he was in good health. Mr B transferred his 
pension and took 25% tax free cash (TFC) immediately with the help of JR.
Mr B complained in 2020 to JR about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said he was an 
unsophisticated investor and the rumours at his place of work had made him worried which 
is why he sought advice from JR. He said he felt pressurised by JR and he wasnt in fact an 
insistent client. Mr B now realised hed be worse off as a result of transferring.
JR didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said, in summary, it had recommended against Mr B 
transferring. JR said it had made Mr B aware of the risks involved in the transfer.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and thought 
JR should pay compensation. She accepted that JR had advised Mr B not to transfer his 
pension, but she didnt think that JR had explored any other avenues to raise the funds Mr B 
wanted. She thought, had it done so, Mr B wouldnt have proceeded with the transfer as she 
didnt think he was truly an insistent client.
JR disagreed. It said its recommendation was for Mr B to remain in the DB scheme. It said it 
had provided cash flow models to Mr B showing that he could take his existing scheme 
benefits from age 58 and meet his objectives. But Mr B was an insistent client and it was his 
choice to transfer his pension. It had merely facilitated this and advised how to invest in the 
PP.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 January 2023 in which I set out how I thought matters 
should be put right. In this I made the following findings:
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice 
at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think 
is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the 
time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JR's actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
I recognise that JR says that the complaint it initially responded to is different to that 
which has been brought to us. And I agree there are some differences. However, the crux 
of the complaint essentially is that Mr B was not properly advised and whether a fair 
insistent client process was followed, and whether Mr B was given sufficient and clear 
information to make an informed decision forms part of this. Im satisfied our inquisitorial 
remit allows me to consider this complaint here in its current form.I cant know for certain what was discussed during the various meetings between Mr B 
and JR. So, Ive considered the written evidence available from the time of the advice 
which includes the various reports, illustrations and meetings notes.
There is no dispute that JRs written recommendation to Mr B was to remain with BSPS. 
And given Mr Bs circumstances, I think everyone is in agreement that it was in his best 
interest to remain in the DB scheme. So there is no issue with JRs recommendation that 
Mr B should not transfer out of the DB scheme.
Consumers can decide to go against an advisers recommendation and JR was generally 
allowed to facilitate a transfer on an insistent client basis. However, I need to consider 
whether JR gave Mr B suitable advice overall which means whether his objectives and 
circumstances were properly considered and addressed and whether he was given clear 
and non-misleading information about his options and the risks of going against the 
recommendation, so that he could make an informed choice. So, Ive considered whether 
Mr B was treated fairly by JR.
In February 2016 the regulator provided guidance on its website about what steps it 
expected businesses to take when advising an insistent client. There are three key steps, 
which it set out on its website as follows.
1. You must provide advice that is suitable for the individual client, and this advice must be 
clear to the client. This is the normal advice process.
2. You should be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action. If the 
advice includes a pension transfer, conversion or opt-out, there may be additional 
requirements. These may include ensuring the advice is provided by or checked by a 
pension transfer specialist, comparing the defined benefit (DB) scheme with the defined 
contribution (DC) scheme and starting by assuming the transfer is not suitable (see 
COBS 19.1).
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against your advice.
The regulator said the advice should be set out clearly in the suitability report, and that it 
needed to be clear with its client about the risks of their chosen course of action and that 
he/she is acting against its advice. It also added that if the client used their own words to 
indicate that they want to act against its advice, this would normally be clear.
The regulator also published additional guidance on its website giving examples of good 
and poor practice. It gave the following example of good practice relating to suitability 
reports:
The adviser gave a personal recommendation in clear and unambiguous terms regarding 
both the advice on whether or not to transfer and, if the client chose to transfer, the 
receiving product and the funds into which the client was advised to invest.
The adviser discussed the client's reasons and the risks of not accepting the personal 
recommendation. The adviser documented the reasons, the discussion and its outcome 
in a separate document to the original personal recommendation.
Robust warnings were given and documented.
Whilst this was guidance, and not rules, I wouldve expected JR to have been aware of 
this and ensured that the advice and process it followed was consistent with the 
regulators expectations.Given the information provided by JR and Mr B, I think on balance he understood that 
JRs recommendation was not to transfer and that he was going against this 
recommendation. And I also think he likely read the report or at least parts of it. I think 
when he made his decision, he genuinely thought a transfer was a good idea.
However, I dont think the information Mr B was given was particularly easy to follow and 
Im concerned about some of the advice process here. Overall, I dont think that Mr B was 
fully informed about the risks and consequences of his intended actions or that he 
understood the consequences of his decision fully. Ill explain why.
While the pension transfer report of 29 September 2016 set out the general risks of the 
transfer and explained in general terms why it wouldnt recommend Mr B transfer his 
pension, I dont think it went far enough in addressing Mr Bs actual objectives or reasons 
for wanting to transfer. I also think that some of the language it used wasnt explicit 
enough. JR needed to make it clear from the outset that Mr B would be significantly worse 
off in retirement if he transferred out of the scheme and that if he took equivalent benefits 
from a drawdown arrangement, his fund would run out before he reached age 80. This 
was a key concern for Mr B that he repeated after receiving the report. And I think this 
demonstrates that the cashflow models included with the report did not make it clear 
enough to Mr B that transferring his pension would leave him with limited pension funds 
later in life and that they were at real risk of running out before he died.
JR also shouldve said in no uncertain terms that the reasons Mr B gave for wanting to 
transfer were not good enough reasons to give up his benefits and he had other ways of 
achieving his objectives without sacrificing his guaranteed pension. Instead, the pension 
transfer report stated on several occasions that it recognised the advantages of 
transferring, and listed the reasons in favour of transferring before listing those against.
For example, when giving the recommendation it said:
Although we appreciate that there are advantages to transferring the scheme, in pure 
monetary terms a transfer would not be considered advantageous.
Mr B wasnt financially sophisticated. So I think by setting out the considerations in this 
unbalanced manner wouldve likely added further confusion for Mr B. And I think this 
wouldve left an impression on Mr B overall that transferring, although not recommended, 
was still advantageous for him.
It seems the key reasons that Mr B wanted to transfer his pension were concerns about 
the BSPS/PPF and to have access to funds to purchase a new property. It was recorded 
that Mr B needed approximately £30,000 to fund the move and that he wished to retire at 
around age 60, however it appears this was later changed to age 58. It wasnt noted 
when Mr B planned to move house so the timeline for actually needing the TFC was 
unclear.
When JR processed the transfer for Mr B at age 55, it said he had decided to take 25% of 
the fund as TFC  around £76,000. Its unclear why he decided to take this amount. It 
was far in excess of what he had told JR he required for a property purchase. Whilst 
having a large amount of TFC would no doubt have been appealing, I cant see Mr B had 
any pressing need for this. I think JR shouldve challenged the amount he was 
requesting, or at least explained the impact this would have on his future retirement 
income, but I cant see that it did.
I also think that JR shouldve challenged Mr B further on his need for TFC at all. The 
paperwork completed by JR said that this house move would involve Mr B downsizing, so it wasnt necessarily known whether he would need any extra funds to achieve this in any 
event. And although it was uncertain when Mr B expected to move house, a lot of JRs 
paperwork suggested this might not happen until 2019 when Mr B was aged 58, some 
three years away. So, it was not a pressing need that had to be addressed at the time  
and I think JR ought to have impressed on Mr B that he didnt need to take any immediate 
action to address that need.
While JR may point to the funding issues affecting the BSPS and the possibility of the 
scheme entering the PPF, and Mr Bs concerns about this, this was far from certain and 
there was no immediate threat of this happening right away. It was clear to all parties that 
Mr Bs employer was actively consulting on other outcomes that could avoid the scheme 
entering the PPF, including the employer sponsoring a new DB scheme (the BSPS2). So, 
I think JR shouldve made it clear to Mr B that he should await the outcome of the 
consultation before taking an irreversible decision to transfer out of the scheme, which 
wasnt in his best interests.
I also think it couldve explored other options in more depth. The transfer value analysis 
report (TVAS) set out that if Mr B remained in the BSPS and retired at age 58, he could 
take TFC of £87,000 with an annual pension of £13,130. Its not recorded within the 
TVAS how much TFC Mr B couldve taken at his proposed retirement age of 58 if the fund 
were to default into the PPF. But its likely to have been more than enough to cover the 
£30,000 he thought he might need. This wouldve provided him with more cash than he 
needed for the property purchase and enabled him to remain mortgage free.
Ive noted this was covered and presented to Mr B as an option, but I cant see that JR 
went as far as making it clear that this was its recommendation to him. And I think more 
emphasis shouldve been placed on this as the recommendation and Mr B shouldve 
been challenged further on why, when he could achieve his aims by staying with BSPS, 
he was still planning to transfer.
Furthermore, Im not persuaded that Mr Bs plans to move home were set in stone at this 
point. Hes now reached 58 years old and is currently living with family. Based on this, an 
alternative couldve been to remain in the DB scheme and review this again as and when 
Mr B did decide to purchase a new property. Again, I think this is an option JR shouldve 
discussed with Mr B in more detail but didnt.
Mr B has said whilst JR made it clear that its formal advice was not to transfer, it hinted at 
transferring being a good option for him. I obviously cant know what was said at these 
meetings. But the documents Ive detailed above certainly do, in my mind, imply to Mr B 
that transferring might be a good idea and would have its advantages.
Its clear from the meeting notes that Mr B was keen on transferring, but I dont think he 
was fully committed and had many questions. He regularly talked about what his 
colleagues were doing.
As Ive said, my biggest concern here is that I cant see JR properly discussed and 
challenged Mr Bs wish for flexibility and accessing more cash in earlier years. Mr B had 
been clear how much cash he thought he needed, so its unclear why Mr B ended up 
taking more or why this wasnt challenged. I cant see he had a need for extra money at 
this time.
JR also needed to ensure Mr B fully understood the risks and possible consequences of 
the intended transfer. And Im not persuaded strong and clear enough risks warnings 
were given. This is not to say JR didnt mention the risks of a transfer. The pension 
transfer report sets out the key risks of a transfer right at the start. However, as Ive already said, it then immediately gives an overview of considerations in favour of 
transferring and against transferring.
Whilst Mr B might have understood there were some risks and that his future benefits 
wouldnt be guaranteed, Im not convinced that Mr B was given clear enough information 
to fully understand what he was giving up by transferring.
Mr B was making a decision to transfer which wasnt in his best interest and he had no 
need to take risks with his pension. Everything he wanted to achieve could have been 
done by staying in BSPS. The ATR questionnaire Mr B completed suggested he had a 
lower appetite for risk than 99.8% of all respondents to that questionnaire. Based on this, 
I cannot see why Mr B wouldve given up the guarantees his DB scheme provided if it 
wasnt for flaws in the advice process with JR.
I appreciate JRs report contained a lot of information. However, the reasons for their 
recommendation not to transfer were vague in my view and it also presented potential 
advantages to transferring. In short, it said the disadvantages outweighed the advantages 
 but this shouldve been more specific to Mr Bs individual circumstances. Mr B was then 
left to weigh up the advantages and disadvantages for himself. And when he came to the 
conclusion he wanted to transfer and take a large amount of TFC, JR in my view failed to 
robustly challenge this.
In summary, JR should have told Mr B in clear and simple terms that he was choosing 
flexibility he didnt really need in return for significantly lower benefits in retirement in 
addition to the very real risks of running out of funds and not leaving behind enough death 
benefits for his wife. I dont think the significant disadvantages in monetary terms were 
sufficiently discussed or emphasised based on the information I have seen.
If they had done so, on balance I think Mr B wouldnt have transferred his pension.
I appreciate that he was concerned about the security of his DB pension and the possible 
move to the PPF. And lots of his colleagues at the time would have been transferring out 
of the scheme, so its possible Mr B was leaning towards a transfer when he approached 
JR.
However, it was JRs obligation to give him an objective picture and recommend what 
was in his best interest. This obligation didnt stop after the recommendation was given 
not to transfer. When it was clear Mr B was considering going ahead with the transfer 
anyway, JR needed to make sure he fully understood the risks of what he was doing and 
what he was giving up, not in the abstract, but what this would mean personally for him. 
And as explained above I dont think they did enough here.
JR says that it had discussed the PPF in detail with Mr B and explained this wasnt as 
concerning as Mr B had been led to believe. In JRs response to the Investigators view it 
said:
During our initial meeting, our adviser explained to him that the PPF should be thought 
of as them saving his pension and topping it up to 90% rather than taking 10% from it.
But I dont think the evidence Ive seen supports this. The pension transfer report said:
The PPF provides very valuable benefits, and in some cases, Pension Commencement 
Lump Sums and Childrens Pensions, that will frequently provide better benefits than the 
scheme. However, the number of small print terms where the benefits are noticeably 
worse than the original scheme will mean that members will receive benefits of a much lower value than the headline 90% or 100% would suggest.
I think this wouldve left Mr B with the overall impression that he should avoid the PPF 
and that his benefits could well be reduced by more than 10%. And in any event, without 
providing Mr B with figures, this wasnt very meaningful to him. Although JR didnt provide 
the details of the benefits Mr B could likely receive under the PPF at age 58 in the TVAS, 
based on what I know about the more favourable early retirement factors and TFC 
commutation factors, its unlikely this wouldve been less than the sums the scheme 
wouldve provided him with and potentially it couldve been higher. This is something JR 
acknowledged in the quote above. So, JR shouldve made it clear to Mr B that the PPF 
wouldve provided him with a secure, guaranteed income and TFC above the sum he said 
he needed even if he retired early.
Mr B says that JR advisers assisted him in writing the letter confirming why he was going 
against its recommendations. I obviously cant know if that was the case or not. But 
regardless, I have concerns about this letter. Ive reviewed the hand written letter from 
Mr B setting out his reasons why he was going against the recommendation of JR. In this, 
he explains that he understands he is giving up a guaranteed income and was 
comfortable with this as he feels that he can enjoy the money whilst he is in good health. 
These are reasons which may have made Mr B favour a transfer. However, Mr B goes on 
to say that with my management and your management I feel there will be enough left in 
later life. From what I can see, Mr B had no investment experience, so was unlikely to 
actively manage the investment itself and, as Ive said above, I think it ought to have been 
clear that his fund had the potential to run out before he turned age 80. So, even with him 
having the benefit of professional advice, there was still a significant risk that he may not 
have enough left over in later life.
Mr B goes on to say I was advised that there could be losses of up to 6% are possible, 
but I am at ease with that, as it could also gain. It seems, from meeting notes, that Mr B 
was provided 6% as an example of what a loss would equate to in real terms. But Mr B 
seems to have understood this as a maximum loss. This shows me that Mr B didnt fully 
understand the risks he was taking. Losses of more than 6% were clearly possible, and 
Ive not seen that JR ever challenged his assumption here.
Given that Mr B has previously been found to accept less risk than 99.8% of respondents 
to the ATR survey, it seems odd to me that he was now at ease with risk (even if he 
thought it was limited to 6%). This further persuades me that Mr B wasnt aware of the 
true costs of the risks he was taking versus giving up a guaranteed income. I have noted 
JRs argument that Mr B became more comfortable with taking risk as he started to 
understand more as he went along the transfer process. However, as Ive set out, Im not 
persuaded that Mr B was fully informed of all of the risks involved, particularly that he was 
almost guaranteed to be worse of in retirement and the real risk of his fund running out.
This was demonstrated in the TVAS as the critical yield required to match the benefits 
offered by BSPS at the time were shown as in excess of 50% if Mr B retired at age 58 
and took the entire pension as an income and 44.84% if he took TFC. So it was virtually 
certain that Mr B would be significantly worse off in retirement, especially given his ATR. 
Furthermore, the TVAS showed that Mr B may exhaust his pension fund using a 
drawdown by the age of 79. This meant that if Mr B were to live a long life, he may well 
find himself with little income in the later stages of life. I dont think his wish to enjoy the 
funds whilst in good health wouldve outweighed his need for a lasting income. And had 
he truly understood this, Im not persuaded he wouldve insisted on transferring.
Overall, I think a properly reasoned recommendation and a complete understanding of 
exactly what Mr B was giving up and the risk he was taking would, more likely than not, have persuaded him to follow their advice not to transfer.
There were disputes about whether the investment recommendation was suitable and in 
line with Mr Bs attitude to risk as well as whether the charges were clear. However, given 
that Im upholding for reasons set out above, there is no reason for me to comment on 
this further.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr B would've gone ahead anyway, even if JR had 
given him enough information to make an informed decision.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr B wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against JRs advice had this advice been properly 
reasoned and Mr B been challenged further on his beliefs and objectives. I say this 
because Mr B was an inexperienced investor with a very low attitude to risk and this 
pension accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. So, if JR had provided him 
with clear advice setting out exactly what he was giving up and explored other means of 
meeting his objectives, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Bs wish to release further funds to move to a larger property or 
concerns over BSPS were so great that he insisted on the transfer knowing that a 
professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think 
it was suitable for him and had clearly explained why, including appropriately challenging
Mr Bs misconceptions. If JR had clearly explained that Mr B could meet all of his 
objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight. So,
I dont think Mr B would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme as he did.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms 
of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement 
said that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be 
satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored by Mr Bs employer would be set up  the 
BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 22 
December 2017. If Mr B had stayed in BSPS, he would have shortly after had the choice 
to move to the PPF or transfer to a new scheme, the BSPS2.
Mr Bs representatives said BSPS2 benefits should have been considered when giving 
the recommendation. However, at the time the advice was given in 2016 Mr B hadnt 
been given the option of BSPS2 yet. The advice for JR to give at the time was whether to 
stay in BSPS or transfer out and their advice was not to transfer in any event.
However, as set out above I think if JR had given properly reasoned advice and acted in 
Mr Bs best interest, Mr B would have remained in BSPS. He might have contacted JR or 
another adviser again when the Time to Choose exercise began. And given that he had 
concerns already, I think its likely he wouldve sought advice again.
So I carefully considered what Mr B likely would have done about a year later had he 
been given the choice of either the PPF or BSPS2 and placed into an informed position 
regarding the features, risks and benefits of both options.Given that Mr B did want to take TFC and retire early at age 58, I think the PPF wouldve 
been the more attractive option at the time and what Mr B shouldve been advised to do. 
For clarity, Mr B retired at age 58. Whilst he had not yet taken an income from his 
pension, he has accessed the TFC. The advice was based on Mr B retiring at age 58, 
which he did do.
And to access the TFC from his DB scheme, he wouldve needed to take an income and I 
think its most likely he wouldve done. So age 58 should be the basis for the calculations.
In light of the above, I currently think JR should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And 
its the benefits available to Mr B at age 58 that should be used for comparison purposes.
I invited both parties to respond by 6 February 2023.
Mr B responded accepting the complaint should be upheld but explaining why he thought 
that the redress should be calculated using BSPS2 as a comparator and using an assumed 
retirement age of 65. JR didnt respond.
The complaint has now been passed back to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find myself coming to the same conclusions as I did in my provisional 
decision. And the findings Ive set out above, from the provisional decision, should be 
considered as part of my final decision. But Ill address the points that Mr B has made in 
response. 
Mr B has argued that he only accessed TFC to fund a non-essential trip and expenditure 
around his home. Mr B reiterated that he still was yet to take any income from his pension. 
And that his retirement plans werent set in stone. He says he wouldve continued to work 
had he been advised to and pointed to the fact that he is still carrying out seasonal work. 
Mr B accepts that early retirement was attractive to him, but he says he didnt realise that 
doing so would be detrimental to him. 
Ive thought carefully about these points. But I need to base my decision on what was known 
at the time, and I cannot use the benefit of hindsight. I also find it difficult to ignore the fact 
that it was recorded by JR that Mr B wished to retire at age 58 and take TFC at this time, 
and he then went on to do so. 
I accept that the use of the TFC Mr B took at age 58 may not have been considered 
essential. And hes pointed out that he and his wife had savings at the time he couldve 
used. Given that he had these savings, but he still chose to take the TFC from the pension, I 
think this was likely always his plan and something he decided to follow through on. I 
recognise that his plans may not have been set in stone. But I think, at the time of the 
advice, Mr B had a strong idea of what he wanted to do. And this is reflected in what he 
ultimately did do.
Ive noted Mr Bs comments that no one told him that retiring early would have a detrimental 
impact. However, the illustrations provided by JR did explain that retiring early would mean 
Mr B would receive less in retirement. Furthermore, I think it wouldve been common 
knowledge to members of BSPS (a defined benefit scheme) that the more years you worked, the more benefits you build up. So I think Mr B ought reasonably to have been 
aware that retiring early would have an impact on what he received in retirement. 
Whilst Im aware that plans change, Im satisfied that, at the time of the advice, Mr Bs plans 
were to retire at age 58 and take TFC. Im not persuaded that, had JR provided better 
advice, he wouldnt still have taken some pension benefits at age 58. So I think this should 
be the retirement age redress is calculated on.
Given that Im satisfied that Mr B did plan to retire early and take some TFC at the time, I 
remain persuaded that had Mr B taken further advice about a year later once hed received 
the time to choose letter, the PPF wouldve been the more attractive option at the time. So I 
remain of the opinion that this is what should be used as the comparator for redress for the 
reasons set out above and within my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for JRs unsuitable advice. For the reasons given above, 
I consider Mr B would have most likely remained in the BSPS and subsequently moved with 
it to the PPF had suitable advice had been given. So calculations should be made on this 
assumption.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a document - 
https:// www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance-https:// www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr B whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect.
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint.
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr B.
JR must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
JR may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date JR receives notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount 
at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement 
for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes JR to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect JR to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
In October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an 
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment 
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become responsible 
for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out is currently expected to 
be complete by late April 2023.
It's been announced that:
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full Scheme 
benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period) 
will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the 
buy-out.
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buyout 
happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they will 
receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level of 
benefits as a result of the buy-out.
Mr M has retired and I think he would have done the same if they had gone into the PPF as explained above. Due to the lower early retirement reduction factor which would have 
applied in the PPF, I think (albeit without certainty in advance of knowing the detailed terms 
of the buy-out) that entry into the PPF would have produced an overall better outcome for 
Mr M. As such, I think its more likely the case that there would be no deficit in the PPF 
benefits which could be made up by the buy-out process.
For this reason I require JR to undertake a redress calculation on the current known basis, 
rather than wait for the terms of any future buy-out to be confirmed. This is in order to 
provide a resolution as swiftly as possible for both parties, and bring finality to proceedings.
If Mr B accepts this final decision, he will be doing so on the basis of my understanding as 
set out above. Its important that Mr B is aware that, once any final decision has been 
issued, if accepted, it cannot be amended or revisited in the future.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Joslin Rhodes Lifestyle 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Joslin Rhodes Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in 
full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Joslin 
Rhodes Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Joslin Rhodes Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited pays Mr B the balance. I would 
additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid 
to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Joslin Rhodes 
Lifestyle Financial Planning Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman