DRN-4200728
The complaint
Ms G complains that she received unprofessional mortgage advice from a broker at 
Independent Mortgage Store Limited (IMSL). Ms G said the broker didnt discuss options 
with her, and wrongly pressured her to withdraw her offer, which Ms G now greatly regrets.
What happened
Ms G said she spoke to a broker at IMSL, who gave her conflicting and untruthful 
information, concealed mortgage products and services from her, and when her offer on a 
property was accepted, pressured her to withdraw from the purchase. Ms G said she then 
lost the property she was bidding on, and this had all caused her an immense amount of 
anxiety and stress. She wanted financial compensation.
IMSL didnt deny that its broker told Ms G to withdraw from the purchase. But it said he did 
this because Ms G couldnt afford the property, and he was worried she would be legally 
bound to buy something she couldnt afford. IMSL sent our service its brokers calculations, 
which showed a shortfall of over £13,000. It said Ms G had no way to make up this shortfall, 
and so IMSL said it didnt think Ms G was in a position to go ahead with the purchase. 
Ms G has complained that other options for raising the money should have been discussed. 
She said the broker refused to discuss whether she had time to sell her own property, telling 
her that was a matter for an estate agent, and didnt also look at residential or consumer buy 
to let mortgages for her. She felt that the broker didnt have her best interests at heart, and 
wanted our service to look into this. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She noted that, unfortunately, 
the calls Ms G had with IMSL werent recorded. She said shed looked at the evidence which 
was available to our service. She said IMSL had identified a shortfall for Ms Gs purchase, 
and there was no dispute that Ms G didnt have a way to find this money. Ms G thought 
IMSL should have discussed more options around raising the money, but our investigator 
said she didnt think it was unreasonable for IMSL to suggest Ms G withdraw. She said the 
purchase was time sensitive, and the options Ms G has since identified werent guaranteed. 
Our investigator noted that Ms G could have ended up legally obliged to purchase the 
property, without the money to do so. 
Our investigator couldnt see that IMSL benefitted from Ms G withdrawing her offer. Our 
investigator thought it was most likely that IMSL had provided appropriate advice to Ms G 
when it suggested she should withdraw, because it wasnt affordable for her to go ahead. 
Our investigator also noted that ultimately this was Ms Gs decision. 
Ms G strongly disagreed. She said she wouldnt pay as much tax as IMSL thought, as shed 
never had a mortgage before. Then she wrote again, to say she would only be counted as a 
first time buyer for mortgage purposes, not for tax purposes (so she would have paid the tax 
that IMSL had calculated). But she thought she could have covered the purchase of this 
house by remortgaging her current property. She also thought that she couldnt accidentally 
have been liable to buy the property, and would have needed proof of funds from a bank 
before she could do that. Ms G also said that the purchase wasnt time sensitive, because 
she had seven days to complete it or it would have automatically defaulted to the next 
purchaser. 
Ms G also complained about the tone IMSLs broker took when advising her. And she said 
her brokers advice on whether the property was likely to be mortgageable had been 
contradicted by the estate agent selling the property. She thought the advice from IMSL was 
deliberately misleading. 
Ms G wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I understand that Ms G feels strongly that she was pressured into withdrawing from this 
purchase by the broker at IMSL. However, even if I agreed with Ms G that the advice she 
received wasnt appropriate, I would still have said that ultimately the decision to withdraw 
from this purchase, before she took other advice on possible mortgage options, was Ms Gs 
own decision. I dont think IMSL is responsible for that. 
But I should also stress here that I havent been able to see Ms G was misadvised by the 
broker at IMSL. She appears to have had a shortfall in the funds needed to purchase this 
property, as well as no funds yet identified for the work that seems likely to have been 
necessary to the property she was interested in buying. Additionally, ISML identified that it 
would be difficult to find a lender for Ms Gs own residence, because of the property type, 
and it would be difficult to find a lender for the property she was purchasing, because of its 
internal configuration. 
Although Ms G says she doesnt think she could have become obliged to purchase by 
accident, it seems likely that she would start to accrue legal costs once shed instructed a 
solicitor to start the discussions for this purchase. Ms G said she had only a week to 
conclude the purchase, before the seller moved on to the next bidder. 
I do think the hurdles that ISML had identified would have made it difficult to go ahead with 
the purchase Ms G wanted to make. And I think it would have been very difficult indeed to 
get over the hurdles that IMSL had identified within the time that Ms G told us she had 
available. 
Ms G also said she felt her broker was rude and unprofessional. I do think IMSLs advice 
appears to have been quite direct, perhaps even blunt, at some points. But I dont think that 
alone means this complaint should be upheld. And, considering the issues Ive highlighted 
above, I dont think it was unreasonable or unfair for IMSL to suggest that Ms G withdraw 
from the purchase. I should also note that I havent seen anything to suggest to me that 
IMSL benefitted from saying this to Ms G. 
I understand that Ms G now greatly regrets acting on the advice she received. But I dont 
think that its IMSLs fault she did so, and ultimately, I havent been able to see that it was 
unfair or unreasonable for IMSL to give this advice. So, although I understand Ms G will be 
disappointed, I dont think her complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman