DRN-3201670
The complaint
Mr S complained because Nationwide Building Society refused to refund him for transactions 
he said he didnt make.
What happened
Mr S had a Nationwide credit card, which he said had been offered to him when he opened 
his current account. Mr S rarely used the credit card. Nationwide sent replacement cards 
every three years, and Mr S said he locked the cards away because he never used the 
account. In 2019, Mr S had disputed a transaction, which Nationwide had refunded.
In the evening of 13 March 2021, Mr Ss card was used to make a cash withdrawal for £300 
at a cash machine outside a Nationwide branch. The money was taken using Mr Ss genuine 
card and correct PIN. On the morning of 14 March, there was another cash withdrawal, for 
£250, outside a different Nationwide branch. Both branches were within about ten miles of 
Mr Ss address. This second withdrawal triggered Nationwides security systems, so it 
blocked the card, sent Mr S a letter saying it had restricted the card, and asked him to get in 
touch.
After Nationwide blocked the card, there were further attempted transactions: mostly cash 
withdrawals and also an attempt to pay for fuel at a garage. These were rejected by 
Nationwides security systems. 
Nationwide didnt hear from Mr S in response to its letter, so it wrote again on 15 March. Mr 
S rang Nationwide a few days later and raised a fraud claim. He told Nationwide that he still 
had his card, and that no-one had been to the house because his wife was shielding in the 
Covid pandemic. Mr S said that he hadnt written down the PIN, and he didnt even know 
where the branch was. Mr S also told Nationwide that he hadnt received the most recent 
card, which Nationwide said it had sent out to him on 16 July the previous year.
Nationwide didnt agree to refund Mr S for the two disputed withdrawals totalling £550. In its 
final response letter, it said that theyd been carried out using the card sent in July 2020 and 
the correct PIN. Nationwide said it had no evidence that Mr Ss PIN had been compromised 
 in other words, that someone had obtained the information. So it wouldnt refund him.
Mr S wasnt satisfied. He paid the disputed £550 and interest, and closed the account. And 
he complained to this service.  He said he thought the replacement card which Nationwide 
had sent the previous July had been intercepted, but he didnt know how the PIN could have 
been found out. Mr S told our investigator that he didnt need to withdraw £550 in cash, 
because he had adequate pension income, and paid all his household bills by debit card. 
And he knew that there were high charges for withdrawing cash on a credit card, so it wasnt 
something hed do. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. She noted that Mr S had said he didnt know 
there was a Nationwide branch at the location of one of the withdrawals, but that branch had 
been used for the 2019 disputed transaction, for which Nationwide had refunded him.  She 
said that as Mr S said he hadnt used the card for a very long time, it wasnt likely that 
anyone had found out his PIN by shoulder surfing him when he was entering it at a 
machine. Mr S had suggested it was possible to take money from a cash machine without 
entering a PIN, but the investigator said that wouldnt have been possible to have signed 
instead of entering a correct PIN at a cash machine . So she thought it was most likely that 
Mr S had authorised the disputed transactions himself.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he didnt remember the 2019 claim, but hed never taken money 
out with a credit card, and he never used the card. He said he and his wife used debit cards, 
not credit cards. Mr S also said hed seen publicity about post office employees stealing 
cards being delivered. The investigator explained that this wasnt a possibility because no 
new PIN had been sent out with the July 2020 card which had been used for the disputed 
transactions  the old PIN had continued.
 
Mr S also said that someone had also used the card on a contactless basis for a train ticket. 
Nationwide had refunded that, but Mr S explained that he had free travel, so  that indicated 
that a third party must have used the card. 
 
Mr S asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What the regulations say about disputed transactions
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions, which are the basis for my 
decision. The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in March 2021 are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, 
Nationwide) must show the transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and 
here, Ive seen the computer evidence which shows that Mr Ss genuine July 2020 card with 
its chip, and the correct PIN, were used. So the disputed payments were authenticated.
Id also explain that although there is often talk about cards being cloned, cloning only takes 
a sort of photo of the card. Cloned cards have been used for things like telephone or online 
transactions where the actual card isnt presented. But cloned cards wont work where a 
card is physically presented  for example in a cash machine, as happened here  because 
the chip is read. Chip technology is complex and sophisticated and there have been no 
known instances when the chip in the card has been successfully copied. So, if a cash 
machine reads the chip in the card and its a cloned card, the transaction will be rejected. 
And if a cash machine confirms that its the genuine card, it really is. 
I recognise that Mr S says he never received the July 2020 card, and Ill come on to that 
later.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence. So Ive gone on to look at who authorised the disputed withdrawals.
Who authorised the disputed paymentsI cant know for certain who carried out the disputed payments, as I wasnt present at the 
time. So, in order to reach my decision, I take all the available evidence into account and 
take my decision on what I think is more likely than not to have happened. 
Ive listened to the phone call recording between Mr S and the investigator. I can tell from 
that that Mr S is quite sure he didnt make the disputed payments, or the attempted 
payments which failed. Ive taken into account the fact that he said he doesnt use credit 
cards, and doesnt really approve of them, and that he knows there are high charges for 
cash withdrawals on a credit card so he wouldnt use a card to take out cash.  I also accept 
that the cash withdrawals close together wasnt typical of Mr Ss previous usage of the card 
 which links to the payments having been picked up by Nationwides security systems. 
The computer evidence also shows that the PIN was entered into the cash machine. So it 
wasnt, as Mr S suggests, that the transactions used a signature or other way of bypassing 
the need for a PIN. There wasnt a way of bypassing the correct PIN for these transactions, 
and the records show it was entered correctly.
I do also understand Mr Ss point about the small contactless payment which was used for a 
travel ticket. Nationwide refunded that payment because it was contactless, so thats no 
longer a financial dispute. But Mr Ss argument is that as he gets free travel, he wouldnt 
have bought a travel ticket himself. I can see the logic in that, though it has to be balanced 
with the other evidence.
The fact is that someone used the genuine card, and Mr Ss correct PIN. Mr S thinks a post 
office employee intercepted the July 2020 card, which he said he never received. But no 
new PIN was sent out around that time, and the PIN continued to be the one which Mr S 
already had. So even if someone had intercepted the July 2020 card in the post, they 
couldnt have found out the PIN by intercepting a letter with a new PIN. So I think that rules 
out the card having been intercepted in the post, because without the PIN, the card would 
have been useless to any fraudster.
Ive also taken into account the fact that fraudsters always try to maximise their gain 
straightaway, before the card can be stopped. So if a fraudster had intercepted the card in 
July 2020, theyd have used it at once. An unknown fraudster wouldnt have kept the card 
and waited eight months before using it. So I think its unlikely that the card went missing 
and didnt reach Mr S in July 2020.
Sometimes PINs are compromised by a fraudster looking over the card holders shoulder at 
a cash machine.  But that cant be what happened here, because Mr S hadnt previously 
taken out cash at a machine. 
That unfortunately leaves very limited options. Mr S might have forgotten that he made the 
withdrawals, but I think thats unlikely, judging from what he said in the phone call with the 
investigator. I also think its unlikely that he gave the card and PIN to anyone allowing them 
to take the money.
What I think is more likely to have happened is that someone who came to the house took 
the card from Mr Ss box. Mr S said no-one was coming to the house because his wife was 
shielding in the Covid pandemic, but he might have meant no strangers came. They might 
have had other visitors, whether family, friends, or carers. These people might have known 
where Mr S kept his card, where he kept the key to the box, and also might have guessed 
what PIN hed have set up  for example a birthday or memorable personal date. I do realise 
this isnt a pleasant option, but it has to be possible if Mr S didnt do the transactions himself.Given the evidence that the correct current card and correct PIN were entered for the 
transactions, the only options are either that Mr S carried out the transactions himself, gave 
someone authority, or that someone took the card and PIN from his home. Whichever of 
these is correct  and I cant know for certain  Nationwide wasnt required to refund Mr S for 
the money.
I realise this will be upsetting for Mr S, but it means I cant uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman