DRN-2232464
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G are complaining about the sale of the whole of life policy they hold with Sun 
Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life).
  
What happened
Mr G and Mrs G were looking for life insurance and went to see a local representative of one 
of Sun Lifes predecessor companies who suggested that a Designer policy would suit their 
needs. The representative told them that the policy would provide a lump sum on death and 
some savings. Mr G and Mrs G agreed to set the policy up so that the premium increased in 
line with the Retail Price Index (RPI) each year. 
Mr G and Mrs G paid into the policy from 1986 to 2018. They made some changes to their 
cover during this time. And they made some withdrawals. But in October 2018 they received 
a letter from Sun Life suggesting their premiums would increase significantly. When Mr G 
and Mrs G queried the increase, Sun Life told them that this was because theyd got older  
so the risk of a claim was higher than it had been before. Mr G and Mrs G cancelled their 
policy later in October 2018 and received an exit value of around £9,000.
Mr G and Mrs G were upset about this  they felt that no one had fully explained that the 
significant increase in premiums might happen. They complained to Sun Life, saying they felt 
the policy had been mis-sold. And they said they often found Sun Lifes letters difficult to 
understand.
Sun Life replied, saying that Mr G and Mrs G had been given a product particulars document 
at the time of the sale. They said this document, together with the policy documents, 
explained how the policy worked, and that it was reviewable. Sun Life said the annual 
statements and the reviews that took place before 2018 would have reminded Mr G and 
Mrs G that the policy was reviewable.
Mr G and Mrs G remained unhappy so they brought their complaint to our service. They said 
theyd been persuaded to buy a complex and expensive policy without being told about 
simpler and less expensive types of cover. And they said that if theyd known the large 
increase in premium was likely theyd have made changes when they were younger. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. She 
said she thought the documents given to Mr G and Mrs G in 1986 made it clear that the 
premiums would increase. Mr G and Mrs G werent happy with this outcome and asked for 
an ombudsman to review the case  so its come to me. They reiterated that theyd never 
been told that their premiums may increase as they got older. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr G and Mrs G, Ive decided not to uphold 
their complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint focuses on what they were told when they initially took out their 
Designer policy. They say they werent told that the cost of the policy would increase as they 
got older. The regulation that now covers the sale of products like Mr G and Mrs Gs policy 
wasnt in place in 1986  it was introduced in 1988. In 1986, representatives providing 
advice had three obligations:
a duty not to make negligent mis-statements
a duty to disclose material information, if the representative gave information; and
a duty (if the representative gave advice) to advise with reasonable skill and care.
As part of this, an advisor needed to ensure that the policy was appropriate for the 
consumers needs and circumstances at the time. 
Given the sale took place in 1986, its understandable that neither Sun Life nor Mr G and 
Mrs G have a record of what was said. So, Ive had to base my decision on the documents 
available, as well as what Mr G and Mrs G have said. Sun Life have provided us with a copy 
of the personal illustration and policy documents that were given to Mr G and Mrs G when 
they were sold the policy. 
Under the heading The cost of providing benefits, the personal illustration states: These 
charges may be varied from time to time and depend upon such factors as your age, sex 
and state of health.
The terms and conditions of the policy state in section D that there will be a review of the 
policy every five years. They then state: Following each Policy Review the Company may 
stipulate to the insured that he should increase the amount of the Regular Premium payable 
 to whatever level the Company considers to be necessary in order to sustain the 
Protection Benefits in force until the next Policy Review. 
Taking these two aspects together Im satisfied its clear that the cost of Mr G and Mrs Gs 
policy would change over time (beyond the RPI increases). And I think its clear that age 
would be a factor in this. 
Thinking about the obligations set out above, I havent seen any evidence that the 
representative made negligent mis-statements. In respect of material information, Mr G and 
Mrs G have complained that they werent told the cost of the policy would increase as they 
got older. Its clear they now consider this to be material information. But it may not have 
been material to them at the time  it didnt become a concern until 32 years later. And, as 
Ive explained, Im satisfied this was disclosed to Mr G and Mrs G, albeit not explicitly. 
Finally, I need to consider whether the representative advised with reasonable skill and care 
and ensured that the policy was appropriate for Mr G and Mrs Gs needs. Its clear Mr G and 
Mrs G wanted life insurance  they proactively approached Sun Lifes predecessor. And they 
had two young children at the time, so it made sense for them to have it. They also told Sun 
Life that they took the policy out to provide life insurance and savings. The policy was a 
flexible one, allowing Mr G and Mrs G to easily change the level of cover, savings, and 
premiums as their needs changed. Taking all of this together, Im satisfied the policy was 
appropriate for Mr G and Mrs Gs needs. My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint about Sun Life 
Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman