DRN-3202967
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) mis-sold four saving 
plans. He is concerned LV didnt offer or introduce other options which may have been more 
beneficial and didnt reasonably consider his personal circumstances to ensure the plans 
were suitable. 
What happened
Mr V took out three endowment saving plans and a tax-free saving plan with LV. The 
endowment plans included life cover. They were taken out in 1993, 1996 and 1998. All four 
of the plans matured in 2010 but they didnt perform as well as expected. 
Mr Vs representative reviewed his policies in 2019. The representative complained to LV on 
Mr Vs behalf in September 2019. The representative explained that the plans seemed to 
have been intended to provide cash for early retirement. However, other saving options 
werent discussed. This included more tax-efficient saving vehicles that offered greater 
flexibility, less risk and access without an early surrender penalty. 
In respect of Mr Vs circumstances, his representative raised the following concerns:
Mr Vs attitude to risk hadnt been established in a meaningful way;
LV didnt consider whether Mr V had adequate deposit-based emergency savings; 
and, 
The life cover was unnecessary as Mr V was single with no dependents.  
LV responded to the complaint on 21 November 2019. They felt it had been raised out of 
time. Mr V remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. On 25 October 2021, I made the 
decision that Mr Vs complaint had been raised in time and I could consider the merits. 
The Investigator went on to issue her view and explained why she felt Mr Vs complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. She felt that the plans werent mis-sold by LV.
   
Mr V didnt accept the Investigators view. In response to the view, Mr Vs representative 
said Mr V was sold plans that werent suitable because: 
They didnt meet his risk profile as an asset backed investment cant be described as 
cautious; 
They were taxed at source and included unnecessary life cover. And this would only 
have been suitable for higher rate tax payers who had fully utilized all genuinely tax-
free allowances; 
They included excessive charges due to unnecessarily lengthy terms and generally 
within the industry policies with a ten-year maturity period could be extended free of 
charge; 
Mr Vs attitude to risk was cautious, and an asset backed investment cant be 
described as suitable for those with a cautious attitude to investment risk. 
LV confirmed they had nothing further to add.
 
Therefore, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also want to note that there isnt a great deal of information available given the time which 
has passed since Mr V took out the saving plans. This isnt unusual but it does mean that 
Ive had to base my decision on the documents I do have. 
First and Second Saving Plans  1993
In 1993, Mr V took out an endowment plan and a tax-free saving plan as recommended by 
LV.  
Ive seen the personal financial summary completed by the sales advisor. I can see Mr V 
wanted to save so he could potentially retire early. The advisor noted he was single and had 
no dependents. They also made a record of his other liabilities (mortgage), his income and 
expenditure, other savings and his budget. The sales advisor also noted he had another 
endowment plan with a different provider. 
This shows me that LV obtained sufficient information regarding Mr Vs knowledge and 
experience, his financial situation and his investment objectives to enable them to make 
recommendations regarding suitable investment products. Having obtained this information, 
they recommended the endowment plan and tax-free saving plan and said that it met his 
objective to save for retirement and was within his budget.  
   
Ive seen the illustrations for the endowment plan and the tax-free saving plan. Both 
illustrations outline the amount of monthly premiums, the saving period and estimates for the 
sums paid out at the end of the period.  LV have also provided confirmation of the sums paid 
out when the policies matured in 2010. Unfortunately, the sums paid out by both of the 
saving plans was less than the lower estimate provided in the illustrations and I can 
appreciate this would have been disappointing for Mr V. I do note he received a greater 
return on both the plans than the amount he paid in premiums. 
 
In response to the view, Mr Vs representative said the policies didnt meet his attitude to 
risk. They said that investments were asset backed and so couldnt be described as 
cautious. LV have provided their risk profile setting out the risk ratings of various products. 
This shows they categorised the with-profit endowment plan and tax-free saving plan as 
suitable for clients with a cautious attitude to risk. 
LV have also provided a document with information for policyholders which explained 
investments in with-profit funds and included a breakdown of the assets in the fund. The 
earliest available version of this document is 2012 and this isnt unusual given the amount of 
time which has passed. But it does give me a sufficient indication of the likely make up of the funds for the duration of the policies. Having considered this, I can see a proportion of the 
funds were allocated to equities. The majority of these were UK based but I can also see 
there were some funds invested overseas. 
However, the savings were invested in a with-profit fund. And LV have explained these types 
of funds were traditionally considered suitable for cautious investors. The document for 
policyholders provided the reasons for this. It explained that there was a wide spread of 
assets in the fund and the asset mix was diversified. It included not only equities but fixed 
interest bonds, property and cash. This represented a range of assets including those which 
were generally considered more secure, for example fixed interest bonds. This meant that 
poor performance of one of the asset classes might be compensated by one of the other 
asset classes and so presented less of a risk to investors. 
In respect of smoothing, I can see LV explained that when determining the value of bonuses, 
they would keep money back when investment returns were high to support bonus payments 
in years when the returns were lower. Therefore, LV have reasonably outlined why theyve 
categorised such saving plans as suitable for cautious investors. 
I do note that Mr Vs attitude to risk was not explicitly outlined in the point of sale documents 
from 1993. However, hed previously taken out an endowment plan. Also, in 1996 LV 
categorised Mr Vs attitude to risk as balanced. In 1998, they categorised his attitude to risk 
as cautious. Ill consider this in more detail below, but Mr Vs circumstances didnt change 
significantly and so I think its unlikely his attitude to risk would have either. Therefore, Im 
content the policies recommended in 1993 did not represent an investment risk greater than 
Mr V was probably willing to make at that time. 
As well as being suitable for Mr Vs level of risk, the saving plans also fell within Mr Vs 
budget as recorded at the time. He paid the premiums for the duration of the policies and so 
theres no reason for me to conclude that they werent affordable. Also, he seems to have 
been in a position to withstand the financial risk of investing as he was receiving a salary at 
the time and there wasnt a need for the policies to provide him with an income. 
 
Instead, Mr V wanted to save for retirement and the plans would provide a lump sum at the 
end of the period. Therefore, they would allow for capital growth in line with Mr Vs objective. 
In response to the view, Mr Vs representative explained why they feel the duration of the 
policies were unnecessary and he might have had the opportunity to extend a ten-year 
period without further charge. But I cant say the period was unsuitable as the plans matured 
in line with when Mr V hoped to retire and met his investment objectives.  
Mr Vs representatives have also said the life cover was unnecessary. I can see there was 
life cover attached to the endowment plan. These types of plans aimed to build a lump sum 
to be paid on maturity. I note that minimal life cover is usually included as standard with 
these sorts of plans to make the maturity payment qualifying for tax purposes. From the 
point of sale documentation, it seems Mr V was aware that life cover was included. 
Therefore, I can appreciate the representatives point that they were only free from additional 
tax and Mr V didnt have a need for life cover. However, if he wanted the endowment plan 
then there was always going to be a life cover element included. If not, he could have been 
taxed upon receipt of the maturity payment. LV have provided evidence which gives an 
indication of the approximate costs of the life cover. I can see it represents a small 
proportion of the premium and was a nominal amount. Therefore, Im not persuaded the life 
cover attached to these policies meant they were unsuitable. 
I cant see specific reference in the point of sale documents to other products which may 
have been available to Mr V at the time. However, I do note that Mr V took out two different saving plans and a further policy at the time. So, I think its likely options were discussed with 
him. Also, the Investigator asked LV about what else might have been recommended at the 
time. LV have explained they didnt offer Tax Exempt Special Savings Scheme (TESSA) at 
the time. Also, Individual Savings Accounts (ISA) werent available until 1999. They said they 
could have offered a Personal Equity Plan (PEP) but they represented a higher investment 
risk. And I can see this from the breakdown of their product risk profile. Therefore, Im not 
persuaded LV have done anything wrong here. 
Overall, Im content the recommendations made in 1993 were suitable for Mr V. I do 
appreciate it would have been exceedingly disappointing for Mr V that the plans didnt 
perform as well as expected. But, as explained, the plans met his investment objectives, 
were affordable and didnt exceed a level of risk that Mr V was likely to have had at that time.
 
Third Saving Plan  1996
In 1996, Mr V took out a monthly premium endowment plan for a period of 14 years. Ive 
reviewed the financial summary and can see his salary increased and he had some money 
invested in a PEP. I can see LV took sufficient steps to enquire about his financial 
circumstances and experience and sought to base their recommendation from their findings. 
Having reviewed the information, Mr Vs situation had not changed significantly.
 
Ive seen the illustration LV provided for the endowment plan. They noted the amount of 
premiums which Mr V needed to pay and the duration of the saving period. They also 
provided an estimate for the likely growth at maturity. LV have confirmed the amount paid 
out in 2010. I can see it was less than the lower estimate provided in the illustration, but 
more than Mr V had paid in premiums. 
LV recorded Mr V as having a balanced attitude to investment risk and his objective 
remained to save for early retirement. The saving plan allowed for capital growth in line with 
this objective. I note LV recorded Mr Vs attitude to risk as balanced and so he might have 
been willing to take a bit more of an investment risk at this time. However, Im not persuaded 
he has been disadvantaged. Ultimately, the plan did not exceed a level of risk Mr V was 
willing to take. Also, the plan was within Mr Vs budget and seems to have been affordable 
as he was able to pay the premiums until the plan matured. Again, the duration of the plan 
lasted until the planned age of retirement and so Im not persuaded the recommendation 
was unsuitable. 
Ive already set out why life cover was included with these types of plans even though Mr V 
may not have had a need for it. The sale documents also show that Mr V was aware of this 
element. Also, LV have provided information to demonstrate that the cost of the life cover 
was only a small proportion of the premium for the cover attached to this policy and was 
overall a nominal amount. So, Im not persuaded the inclusion of life cover meant the plan 
was unsuitable. 
There isnt a specific record in the point of sale documentation to say whether other options 
were discussed with Mr V. However, I can see a record was made of his other investments 
and he had taken out a PEP in that financial year. The advisor recorded that no other 
recommendations had been made due to affordability. And I can see Mr V had a limited 
budget. Having considered the evidence, Im not persuaded the saving plan Mr V took out in 1996 
was mis-sold. It seemed to meet his investment objectives, didnt exceed the level of risk he 
was prepared to take and was affordable. 
Fourth Saving Plan  1998
Mr V took out an endowment plan in 1998 for a period of 12 years. LV took steps to obtain 
information about his circumstances and recorded this in the personal financial summary. 
Ive reviewed this and can see he had further money invested in his PEP and his salary had 
increased.
Again, Ive reviewed the illustration provided for the endowment plan and can see it 
contained information about the saving period, premium and estimate for the maturity 
payment. I understand less was paid out than the lowest amount estimated in the illustration. 
But this was more than what Mr V had paid in premiums.
 
LV recorded Mr V as having a cautious attitude to risk and his objective was still to save for 
retirement. Again, the endowment saving plan allowed for capital growth in line with his 
objective and without exceeding the level of risk he was willing to take. LV recorded Mr Vs 
budget and, as with the previous plans, Mr V was able to maintain the premium payments for 
the duration of the plan. So, it seems it was affordable. Similarly, the plan also matured in 
line with when Mr V wanted to retire and so I cant say the length of the saving period was 
unsuitable. 
In the summary report, the advisor noted that Mr V was aware of the life cover element. LV 
have also provided evidence that the cost of the life cover attached to the plan sold in 1998 
only represented a small proportion of the premium and was overall a nominal amount. 
Therefore, Im not convinced the life cover attached to this policy meant the endowment plan 
was unsuitable. 
In respect of the other options available, Ive seen the sales advisor provided a summary 
report and noted that unit trusts had been discussed. But the advisor recommended the 
endowment plan because it allowed for real capital growth, through a guaranteed cash 
amount and the allocation of regular bonuses whilst remaining within Mr Vs attitude to risk.  
Having considered the point of sale documents from 1998 and for the reasons explained, Im 
not persuaded the endowment plan was mis-sold at this time. 
 
Overall, I appreciate it would have been disappointing for Mr V that the saving plans didnt 
perform as well as expected particularly as he wanted to save for early retirement. But Ive 
reviewed the documentation from the time when the plans were sold, and Im not persuaded 
LV made an unsuitable recommendation. LV obtained meaningful information about Mr Vs 
circumstances and recommended policies intended to provide capital growth and which 
were affordable without exceeding Mr Vs attitude to risk. They did include life cover, but as 
explained this only represented a small amount of the cost of the premiums and was 
necessary with the endowment plans. Therefore, I cant say LV have done anything wrong 
here.
 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman