DRN-4211719
The complaint
Mr F complains that West Bay Insurance Plc unfairly delayed and subsequently declined his 
claim on his taxi insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F is a taxi driver and has an insurance policy to cover his vehicle thats underwritten by 
West Bay. 
In September 2022 he made a claim after the vehicle caught fire. West Bay collected the 
vehicle and took it to be inspected. However the inspection didnt take place until the end of 
December 2022. 
In February 2023 West Bay wrote to Mr F to let him know it was declining his claim. It said 
the inspection had revealed that the fire had been caused by a build up of soot in the diesel 
particulate filter (DPF) and this was due to a lack of maintenance. And this is excluded under 
the policy.
Mr F had been unhappy with the service hed received throughout the claim as it had taken a 
long time for West Bay to provide an answer to it. He said as he relies on the taxi for his 
income, this had had a severe impact on his finances and his mental well being. He had 
made a complaint which West Bay responded to offering £400 compensation for the delay.
Following the repudiation of the claim he made a further complaint. However West Bay didnt 
uphold this as it said its decision to decline the claim was a fair one.
Unhappy with this, Mr F asked this service to investigate. After coming to us he provided a 
report from the vehicles manufacturers garage that had also inspected it. This said that they 
had inspected the DPF and found no issues. And that regular servicing of the part wasnt 
required as it automatically filter cleans. 
Our investigator considered everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. He said 
he didnt think West Bay had done enough to prove the exclusion would apply, so thought it 
should settle the claim. He also thought it should increase the compensation to £600 and 
reimburse Mr F for the earnings he lost out on during the time the claim was being dealt with. 
Plus 8% simple interest to make up for the time he had been without the funds.
Mr F accepted our investigators outcome. However West Bay didnt. It said while the DPF 
itself didnt require servicing there are a number of manufacturers guidelines that need to be 
followed in order to ensure it lasts its intended lifespan and it suspects Mr F didnt follow all 
of these. It also said that the DPF would only be covered if damaged or stolen. It asked for 
the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Declinature of the claim
When an insurance claim is made its first for the insured to show that theres been an 
insured event  something thats covered under the policy. Then its for the insurer to either 
accept the claim or prove that an exclusion applies.
Here its accepted that an insured peril took place  a fire in the vehicle. However West Bay 
has said that the fire started due to lack of maintenance which has led to wear and tear. And 
damage caused by wear and tear is excluded under the policy. Ive considered if its done 
enough to prove this fairly applies.
West Bays expert inspected the vehicle and its report concluded:
The most likely source of heat and potential ignition is the build-up of soot in the DPF
It then goes on to conclude that this was due to lack of maintenance. However from the 
description of the inspection of the vehicle in the report, it doesnt appear that the engineer 
inspected the DPF. But instead concluded the likely cause based on what it could see from a 
visual inspection.
Mr F has provided a report from the vehicle manufacturers garage. It reported as follows:
We have checked your vehicles DPF and found It all to be okay. Regarding your question 
as to whether the DPF requires to be serviced regularly, [manufacturer name] does not state 
that a service Is required at any age or mileage. The DPF should automatically filter clean 
when the system carries out a regeneration.
Based on this, Im more persuaded by Mr Fs report. As the engineer comments directly on 
their inspection of the DPF and confirms they found no issue. Further, their comments about 
the part self-servicing show that its unlikely a problem with the DPF would be due to a 
maintenance issue. 
In response to this report West Bay has pointed out the manufacturers guidance for how the 
car should be used and maintained. Its said that if these arent adhered to then this can lead 
to damage. It said that the inspection showed there were some issues with the vehicle such 
as no oil being present in the engine. And says this shows there was a lack of maintenance. 
However it has done nothing to show that this issue, or any other non-compliance with the 
manufacturers guidance, were the cause of the fire. Instead it has merely speculated that if 
Mr F hadnt complied with the guidance then this could cause faults. So Im not persuaded 
this is enough to prove the exclusion for wear and tear would apply. 
Finally Mr F has provided details of the services and checks he has had carried out on the 
vehicle. This includes a service in January 2022, an MOT in June 2022, an oil change in 
September 2022 and a certificate of compliance from the council from June 2022. This 
shows Mr F was having the vehicle checked regularly, including up to a few weeks before 
the incident. 
Based on the evidence, I dont think West Bay has done enough to show that the exclusion 
for wear and tear would fairly apply here. I therefore dont think its acted fairly or reasonably 
by declining Mr Fs claim. On this basis, I agree with our investigator that it should accept the 
claim and settle it in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
DelaysWest Bay has taken a very long time to come to its decision on Mr Fs claim. And from 
looking at the notes and correspondence on the claim, I think it could have progressed 
matters much more promptly. 
The vehicle was collected on 6 October 2022, but it wasnt inspected until 21 December. It 
seems that this was due to poor communication between West Bay and its agents, and 
therefore this could have been avoided.
Further, the report was received at the start of January 2023. However Mr F was only 
informed of the claim decision in February. Again, Ive seen no good reason for this delay, 
particularly as the repudiation was discussed internally at the beginning of January and West 
Bays position didnt change from this point. 
During this time Mr F has been unable to work. This has had an impact on his financial 
position and has caused him significant distress. Hes also had to chase West Bay 
repeatedly which will have been inconvenient.
For these reasons I agree West Bay should increase the compensation offered to £600 to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. And, as Mr F has lost out on income he 
would have received during this time, it should reimburse him for this, less any related 
outgoings. This should be based on evidence of earnings from the three months prior to the 
incident. To make up for the time Mr F has been without these funds, it should also pay 8% 
simple interest on the amount from the date of the claim, until the date settlement is paid.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct West Bay Insurance Plc to:
Accept Mr Fs claim and settle it in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Pay Mr F a total of £600 compensation.
Reimburse Mr F for his lost earnings (less any related outgoings) for the period of the 
claim, from the date it was made until he paid for the repair of his vehicle. This should 
be based on proof of his earnings from the three months prior to the claim.
Pay 8% simple interest on the lost earnings from the date of the claim until the date 
settlement is made.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman