DRN-3974833
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
cancelled their home insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term RSA includes reference to its agents and 
representatives.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms policy with RSA started in February 2022. In July 2022 Mr M telephoned 
RSA to add an additional watch to his contents cover. In August 2022, Mr M was given 14 
days notice that his policy was being cancelled and Mr M made a formal complaint about 
RSAs actions. RSA didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and said that Mr and Mrs Ms 
specified values added up to a figure which exceeded the policy limit. It considered that it 
was entitled to cancel Mr and Mrs Ms policy in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M then referred their complaint to our service. The relevant investigator didnt 
uphold their complaint and said that the insurer had the option to decide the level of risk that 
it was prepared to accept. The investigator considered that that the additional watch took the 
valuables at risk over the total limit in the policy. As RSAs underwriting criteria stated that 
RSA wouldnt accept risk where valuables took the policy above the total limit, and that this 
applied to all customers, they didnt think that the cancellation was unfair or unreasonable. 
The investigator considered that having more valuables in a property would increase the risk 
for an insurer. It was their view that it was for the insurer to set the limits for which they were 
willing to provide cover. Here, it was felt that the terms and conditions of the policy were 
sufficiently clear and provided for RSA to cancel the policy where new information was 
received. He concluded that RSA had treated Mr and Mrs M fairly. The investigator also 
considered that 14 days notice of cancellation provided by RSA gave Mr and Mrs M a fair 
opportunity to change insurers, and was in accordance with the process set out in the policy. 
It was concluded that cancellation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with the outcome of their complaint. The matter has therefore 
been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman,
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The central issue for me to determine here is whether RSA applied the terms and conditions 
of its home insurance policy and generally acted in a fair and reasonable manner in 
cancelling Mr and Mrs Ms home insurance policy. I consider that it has done so, and Ill 
explain why. In making this final decision Ive also taken into account the submissions of the 
parties which are summarised below.
Turning firstly to what Mr and Mrs M have said, they explained how theyd asked for a new 
watch to be added to their out and about cover section of the policy as a specified personal 
possession. They thought this was the normal process as they were merely adding 
something to the policy and that theyd done so on previous occasions, which naturally
increased the premiums. On these previous occasions, they said it just went through 
smoothly. However, on this occasion RSA informed Mr M that it had concerns due to the 
increased risk of theft. Mr and Mrs M said that they were never once made aware that asking 
for an additional item to be added would negate the policy.
Mr and Mrs M also said that the valuables were kept in the home safe specified by RSA. Mr 
M said that he was asked if he had a mortgage with RSAs agent and when he replied not, 
he was told that hed exceeded the amount that could be covered. He said that there were 
then several phone calls made over a period of around two months, and on all these 
occasions, he was told that the entire policy would be cancelled. Mr M said that had he 
known that he was exceeding a limit, he would have left the watch off the policy and sought 
separate insurance for it. However, when hed asked if the watch had been added, RSA said 
not, as it would exceed the limit. It then seemed to say that there was no limit. Mr and Mrs M 
considered RSAs stories were wholly inconsistent.
Mr and Mrs M were also unhappy as theyd looked at other insurance policies and they 
considered them to be at a massively increased premiums due to a few claims i had made 
with [the agent] in the past 5 years. Mr M thought that the watch was being used as an 
excuse to cancel the policy. He said he couldnt get anywhere near the cost of his RSA 
policy. In summary, Mr and Mrs M wanted the policy to be re-instated and to be put back on 
my insurance policy at the same level as i was before i asked to add the watch.  Mr M also 
said; I still believe that this is down to me making claims prior to the purchase of my new 
watch and this was a convenient way for them to reject all cover. Finally, they said theyd 
been customers of the agent for between 25 to 30 years and felt that it had removed their 
longstanding insurance history with the insurer and its agents. Finally, Mr and Mrs M thought 
that RSA wasnt following the spirit of the policy and conditions.
I now turn to what RSA have said about this matter. It confirmed its decision to cancel Mr 
and Mrs Ms insurance after they called to add a watch onto the policy. It said it did so 
because the specified items would then have exceeded the valuables limits and that this 
meant that they no longer met the insurers criteria. It added; as it is us who take the 
financial risk if something were to go wrong, we are free to choose what we can and can't 
insure. It said that after adding the watch to the cover, the policy became invalid.
It considered it was right to invoke 14 day cancellation, and considered that this gave time 
for Mr and Mrs M to find alternative cover. As to whether there were standard, fixed limits for 
all customers, it said that each situation is looked at on a case-by-case basis to determine 
the limits of cover and a decision would be made depending on various matters. These 
included the number of items specified, the value of items, overall security at the property, 
the frequency of wear, the relationship with the insurer and the claims history. It confirmed its 
view that under the policy, RSA was entitled to reassess the cover if told of any changes. 
Having considered the above submissions and all available evidence, Ill now provide my 
reasoning for not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. The starting point in such cases will 
be the wording of the policy itself as this forms the basis of the insurance agreement 
between the policyholder and insurer.
Under the heading Changes in your circumstances, the terms and conditions state; So that 
we can ensure weve got you fully covered you'll need to let us know if during the year your 
circumstances change or you need to change any of the information youve provided to us. 
In particular, it stated that the policyholder had to tell RSA within a given timescale about certain changes, including; any changes to the information youve previously provided to us 
and shown on the most recent Statement of Facts document sent to you. It also specified 
that; we may reassess your cover, terms and the price when were told about changes in 
your circumstances. It also stated that the policyholder needed to tell RSA; if you buy new 
jewellery, watches or any items containing gold, silver or platinum. As to cancellation the 
policy stated that; We may cancel your policy for the reasons explained in the Changes in 
your circumstances condition on page 19. 
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs M, the policy wording is clear in stating that RSA would be 
entitled to reassess cover when told about any changes in circumstances by a policyholder. 
Ive listened to the telephone call when Mr M asked to add a watch to the policy and note 
that RSAs representative said: - Im just adding that on for you but also because of the 
addition, it will have to be referred. Insurers do have a considerable amount of discretion as 
to whether they wish to continue with cover, bearing in mind a range of risk factors. Here, its 
clear from the policy wording that RSA considered new jewellery or watches to be relevant in 
determining risk and therefore had to be declared.
Its clearly important that policyholders read policy documents carefully, and I note from the 
relevant Schedule that, even prior to the watch being added to the policy, the specified 
personal possessions on the policy already marginally exceeded the total valuables limit on 
the policy. I have sympathy for Mr and Mrs M and realise that when RSA informed them of 
its intention to cancel the policy this will have come as a shock part way through the policy 
year. I dont consider that they would have appreciated the potential consequences of their 
phone call in July 2022. I also note that they were then unable to find insurance at a 
comparable price to their insurance with RSA. 
In all the circumstances however, I conclude that RSA was entitled to cease to provide cover 
due to additional risk factors which it considered to be significant, and also in view of the fact 
that the additional watch took total values well over the valuables limit covered by the policy. 
Having considered RSAs case notes, I do consider that it could have better explained to Mr 
and Mrs M the reasons for cancellation of the policy, however this factor alone doesnt merit 
payment of compensation. 
I appreciate that this will come as a great disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, however I cant 
say that RSA has applied the terms and conditions of its policy in an unfair or unreasonable 
manner. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, and dont require 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman