DRN-3396323
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with Starling Bank Limited (Starling), after falling victim to an authorised 
push payment (APP) scam whereby he sent money to an account held at Starling.
What happened
The details and facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat 
them at length here. 
In summary, Mr A fell victim to an investment scam. As part of the scam, Mr A made a 
payment / transfer of £12,000 from his bank account, to an account held at Starling on 
19 November 2020. 
After the scam was revealed in May 2021, Mr A raised the matter with his Bank and also 
raised concerns about Starling, where the receiving bank account was held. 
Mr As Bank and Starling are all signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). 
The CRM Code was implemented to reduce the occurrence of APP scams. It sets out what 
is expected of the Sending Firm when payments are made which includes a consideration 
of whether a customer met their requisite level of care when making the payment. And it also 
sets out the obligations for the Receiving Firm to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt 
of funds from APP scams in order to prevent accounts from being opened, or used, to 
launder the proceeds of APP scams. Where there is a failing by either the Sending Firm or 
Receiving Firm, they may be required to reimburse the customer. And the customer may 
also be required to share some responsibility for the loss if it is determined that they also 
failed to meet their requisite level of care under the CRM Code.
Mr As Bank, as the Sending Firm, refunded him in full the funds he had lost. 
Starling, in its capacity as the Receiving Firm, looked into the matter and issued a final 
response letter to Mr A. It didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said that the account had been 
opened correctly in line with its procedures and that it had processes in place to monitor 
accounts regularly. It advised that it could not disclose full details of its procedures but 
considered it had taken the appropriate actions and complied with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. 
Unhappy, Mr A referred the matter to our service. Mr A says Starling, as the Receiving Firm, 
should also share some responsibility. Mr A wants our Service to request that Starling follow 
the CRM Code going forward. Mr A also considers Starling should issue him an apology and 
compensation as it allowed the misuse of its facilities in allowing one of its accounts to be 
opened and used fraudulently.
Mr A also requested, to prevent further scams being operated though Starling, for our 
service to examine the procedures used by Starling in verifying the integrity of its new 
customers. 
One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt recommend that Starling needed to do 
anything further. Overall, he was satisfied Starling had met the standards required of it under 
the CRM Code and wasnt responsible for Mr As losses as it couldnt reasonably have done 
more to prevent Mr As loss. He was also satisfied it had responded appropriately to the 
notification of fraud. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but Im not upholding his complaint about Starling. I know hes 
been the victim of a cruel scam and I dont doubt that these events have had a significant 
impact on him. And I do understand that, despite receiving a full refund from his Bank, he 
wants to ensure that proper procedures have been followed. While I acknowledge Mr As 
strengths of feelings on the matter, in this case, I dont consider Starling has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in its answering of the complaint. Im satisfied Starling has met its 
requirements under the CRM Code and therefore isnt liable and doesnt need to do anything 
further or pay any additional compensation to Mr A. Ill explain why.
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like Starling, are required to
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2)
and to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing
of terrorism requirements.
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the
relationship).
And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse 
Code of Practice).
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule.Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that Starling have signed 
up to.
The relevant considerations for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code sets out the following:
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm
 
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being 
used to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures 
to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. 
Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they 
may be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond 
in a timely manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for 
criminal purposes.
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are 
being, used to receive APP scam funds.
Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving 
Firm, the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures 
set out in the Best Practice Standards.
In considering all of the above, and to determine if Starling met the standards required of it 
under the CRM Code, I have looked at whether Starling opened the receiving account 
correctly, whether there was anything in the way the account was being used that should 
have given Starling any cause for concern and finally; once notified of fraud did it act 
appropriately and in a timely manner. And if I consider there were failings in relation to any of 
the above, I have to consider whether Starlings acts or omissions fairly resulted in Mr As 
loss.  
I would like to point out to Mr A at this point, that while Starling has provided our service with 
information about the receiving bank account  it has done so in confidence. This is to allow 
us to discharge our investigatory functions and Starling has provided that which is necessary 
for the determination of this complaint. Due to data protection laws our service cant share 
any information about the beneficiary, the receiving bank account or any investigation and 
action Starling subsequently took. However I would like to assure Mr A I have thoroughly 
reviewed and considered all the information provided before reaching my decision.
Prevention - The account opening process
To help decide whether or not a bank failed to prevent the loss of an APP victim when
opening the beneficiary account, we would generally ask to see evidence that; it correctly
followed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the
named account holder; and did its due diligence when opening the account.I appreciate Mr A has said he doesnt think Starling has followed correct procedures as an 
account was opened and was subsequently used fraudulently. But in the circumstances of 
this complaint, Im satisfied that Starling carried out checks to verify the identity of the named 
account holder and did its due diligence when opening the beneficiary account. There wasnt 
anything at the time that I think reasonably couldve alerted Starling that the account it was 
opening would later be used fraudulently. So Im satisfied Starling had taken reasonable 
steps to prevent the account being opened for criminal purposes and it didnt miss an 
opportunity to prevent Mr As loss when opening the account.
Detection - Account activity
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the
account. The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts 
which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. This ties in with long standing 
regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies have to monitor their business 
relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving 
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive looked at the account history for the beneficiary account and I cant say there was any 
account activity that I think would reasonably have stood out to Starling as suspicious or 
significantly outside of what might be expected for an account of that type. Im also satisfied 
there was no notification of fraud on the account prior to the payment Mr A made into the 
account and no other red flags where it could reasonably be argued that Starling might have 
had sufficient grounds to suspect fraud and refuse execution of their customers payment 
instructions.
So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied Starling has demonstrated that it has taken reasonable 
steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. I also 
dont think Starling ought reasonably to have had concerns where I would have expected it 
to have intervened, so I cant fairly say that it could have prevented Mr As loss in this way 
either.
Response to notification of fraud
The Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a 
speedy manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds 
remain for recovery. Here, once notified that the account had received funds as a result of 
fraud, Im satisfied Starling took the necessary actions required of it and did so in a timely 
manner. Unfortunately, no funds remained in the account that could be recovered as they 
had already been moved on / withdrawn from the account. 
So, taking the above into consideration Im satisfied, following notification of APP fraud, 
Starling responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice 
Standards. And I dont think I can fairly say Starling didnt do enough to respond to the 
alleged APP fraud.
Overall, while Mr A was the unfortunate victim of a scam, Im satisfied that Starling met the 
standards required of it under the CRM Code. I also dont think Starling couldve done 
anything more as the Receiving Firm to have prevented the loss of Mr As money. And it 
responded appropriately once notified of the fraud. So, it follows that I dont think they are 
liable under the CRM Code or otherwise and I dont direct it to do anything further or pay any 
additional compensation to Mr A.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman