DRN-1493871
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr K and Ms W say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2003 Mr K and Ms W took out a PPI policy in connection with their mortgage. BoS' 
records show the sale took place during a branch meeting.
For the avoidance of doubt, Mr K and Ms W's policy was part of an overall package of 
protection offered by BoS called Total Mortgage Protection Plan ("TMPP"). Alongside PPI, it 
also provided critical illness and life cover. Mr K and Ms W took out all three elements.
But Mr K and Ms W have not complained about the critical illness and life cover elements as 
part of this complaint, so I've not considered these here -  my decision is only about the PPI.
The PPI provided protection for Mr K and Ms W's mortgage payments - the policy benefit 
was split equally on a 50/50 basis - in the event either of them couldn't work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out for up to 24 months per claim 
and it cost around £34 a month.
At the time of the sale both Mr K and Ms W were employed, and they said they were each 
entitled to sick pay of six months' full followed by six months' half pay. They also said 
they had several thousand pounds in savings they couldve used to make their repayments 
along with help from their parents if needed. Mr K said he was in good health at the time and 
Ms W said she had an existing medical condition.
BoS' records show the mortgage account ended in 2006.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Mr K and Ms W chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was 
wrong or inappropriate for them.
Because Mr K and Ms W disagree, the complaint comes to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant 
here in deciding Mr K and Ms Ws complaint.
Having done so, while I understand Mr K and Ms W will be disappointed with my decision, 
Ive decided not to uphold their complaint. My reasons are set out below.did Mr K and Ms W have a choice about PPI? 
did they agree to take it out?
Mr K and Ms W have said they can only believe they were given the impression that PPI was 
a condition of the mortgage.
BoS doesn't have any paperwork from the time of the sale. And while unfortunate, this isn't 
perhaps surprising given how long-ago things happened  its also been more than 10 
years since the mortgage account closed.
BoS has provided us with example paperwork that it says Mr W and Ms K would've seen 
when they took out the PPI during the meeting in-branch. This is paperwork we've seen 
before. And looking at this I think it would've been clear to a customer that they didn't have to 
take the policy out and that it wasn't a condition of the lending.
So in the absence of persuasive evidence that something very different happened in Mr K 
and Ms W's case, I think it's likely this is the kind of paperwork Mr K and Ms W saw. I 
therefore think BoS made it clear that Mr K and Ms W didn't have to take out the PPI and 
that they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant now remember this.
the advice
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr K and Ms W. This means BoS had to check that the 
PPI was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example, they were both eligible for the cover; they weren't affected by 
the significant exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover; and they seem to have had a need for 
the cover.
I can see that Ms W says she had an existing medical condition. But the policy didn't exclude 
Ms W from claiming on the policy for this condition because the policy was taken out at the 
same time as the mortgage - the pre-existing medical condition policy exclusion didn't apply 
in their case.
I can see that Mr K and Ms W say they had enough existing means to secure their mortgage 
payments - they also said Ms W was in a secure job for example, so she was unlikely to be 
made unemployed. I've thought about this carefully. But having done so, I'm not persuaded it 
was wrong for BoS to have recommended PPI.
The policy would've paid out alongside any sick pay and for longer than both Mr K and 
Ms W's sick pay entitlement would've lasted - up to 24 months per claim if required. So, if Mr 
K and/or Ms W were unable to work for a lengthy period, the policy would've helped them 
out at what would likely be a difficult and perhaps uncertain time. Mr K and Ms W were 
taking on a not inconsiderable amount of debt secured on their home - they also didn't have 
much equity in the property in the time - so I think the policy could've proved useful to them if 
something went wrong and it could've ultimately helped them to protect their home.
I accept Mr K and Ms W could've used their savings to help them out. But the policy 
would've allowed them to retain their savings for longer, or negated the need to use them to 
meet their mortgage payments altogether. Instead, any savings could've been directed 
towards other household and/or essential expenditure at a time when their sick pay reduced 
or stopped altogether. 
And while Mr K and Ms W say they could've sought financial help from their parents, I'm not 
persuaded this can reasonably be considered guaranteed means - I wouldn't have expected 
the BoS adviser to have considered it as such and so not recommended the policy to them. I acknowledge Ms K's view that she was in secure employment at the time. But in my view 
no job is guaranteed. And the purpose of taking out insurance is to protect against the risk of 
something you don't expect to happen, happening.
So overall, I think the PPI was suitable for Mr K and Ms W in their overall circumstances at 
the time and it wasn't wrong for BoS to have recommended it to them.
the information  
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information BoS gave Mr K 
and Ms W about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. For example the evidence 
doesn't tell me how the cost was disclosed to them. But as I found above, I think they likely 
chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover; albeit cover 
recommended to them. And as I also set out above  it seems like it would have been useful 
for them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr K and Ms W off taking out the cover. 
conclusion
While BoS might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold Mr K and Ms W PPI, in light of their circumstances at the time I don't think the policy 
was wrong for them and I don't think they would've acted any differently had BoS done 
anything more - I think they'd have still taken the policy out.
This means BoS doesn't have to pay back to Mr K and Ms W what they paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mr K and Ms W have said in both making their complaint and 
responding to the adjudicator's assessment - including what theyve said about a family 
member's experience as a former employee of BoS who was working for it at the time they 
took out their policy and her description of high pressure sales tactics. And what they've said 
about not understanding the outcome to their complaint in the context of the "huge PPI mis-
selling scandal." But these points dont change my decision.
Firstly - it's well documented that PPI was mis-sold over an extensive period of time and that 
many people have received compensation. But not all PPI was mis-sold. And I've set out in 
detail above why I think Mr K and Ms W's PPI policy was right for them. 
I've read the comments Mr K and Ms W have provided about a family member's own views 
of working as an employee of BoS. But I don't think I can place much weight on this - for 
example we're not a court of law where cross-examination or testing witness / third party 
evidence can take place; and the testimony is from a third-party and a family member who 
was not present at the time of the sale.
So I'm not persuaded I've seen enough evidence to fairly say that in Mr K and Ms W's case 
the adviser went beyond recommending PPI and applied undue pressure to them to take it 
out.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Paul FeatherstoneOmbudsman