DRN-1777069
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) closed his credit card account without giving 
him notice, and that they also recorded a default against him as a result of arrears on his 
account which he would like removing.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr S and Lloyds, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr S went to work and live in South Africa. In April 2019 he was unable to view his credit 
card account through his online banking. When he contacted Lloyds, they explained that was 
because he had failed to make the required payments on his account leading to a default 
notice being issued and then his account being terminated.
Mr S explained that because he had never received any of the arrears letters, as Lloyds had 
his address recorded incorrectly, it was unreasonable for Lloyds to have terminated his 
account. He would like the default removed from his credit file and the account reinstated so 
that he can pay what is due.
Lloyds felt they had closed the account in line with the terms and conditions and had not 
acted unfairly. They said they had issued correspondence to the correct address since Mr S 
had not formally changed it. They also provided him with account details and a reference 
number so that he might be able to make payments to the outstanding balance.
Mr S was unhappy with Lloydss final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and having 
done so, concluded that Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether Lloyds acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that 
Lloyds has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
Prior to leaving the UK to work in South Africa, Mr S did not change his correspondence 
address. Lloyds would therefore be bound to write to him at his UK address. Mr S says he 
notified Lloyds he was abroad, and I accept that he did. However, Lloyds have a formal 
system for changing a customers address and it does not allow such a change to be made 
over the telephone. Mr S did try to effect the change over the telephone but was told he 
would be required to complete a particular change of address form. He says he did that 
although Lloyds have no evidence of ever receiving that form. Lloyds records do however 
indicate that Mr S spoke to a member of their staff after the default and he had confirmed he 
would call into a branch when he returned to the UK in August 2019. He had also confirmed 
that he had been unable to resolve the issue of his address with a customer services 
member sometime earlier. I think the balance of evidence therefore indicates that although 
Mr S did actually tell Lloyds of his change of address, he did not complete the necessary 
application to change it resulting in his original address remaining on file and the one Lloyds 
would write to. And I find that Mr S would know that to be the case in all probability.
The evidence also shows that it was in July and August 2018 that Lloyds wrote to Mr S with 
formal demands for repayment. And then in September 2018 Lloyds wrote with a default 
notice telling him he was in arrears and what steps he would need to take to remedy that 
position. A further letter was written in January 2019. The statements of Mr Ss account 
show irregular sums being applied to the account. They also show unpaid direct debits which 
Mr S would know had not been paid since his bank would tell him and they would appear on 
his bank statement. And, by the time the default notice was issued Mr S had not made the 
minimum required payments for the previous 5 months, which is again a fact he would know. 
So, at the point Lloyds issued the default notice I am satisfied that Mr S had breached the 
terms and conditions of his account by failing to make the minimum payments and thus 
Lloyds were correct in reporting the default to the credit reference agencies.
Ultimately the responsibility for managing his account rests with Mr S and the available 
evidence shows that he did not complete the required process to change his address 
correctly. Further, he would have known his account was increasing in arrears but failed to 
address it. The issue of the default notice and termination of his account was both fair and 
reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
So, although Mr S will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Lloyds has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman