The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 2001 when he applied for a credit card.
What happened
In 2001, Mr B applied for a credit card with Lloyds during a meeting. At the same time he 
was sold a regular premium PPI policy to protect his repayments. The cost of the PPI policy 
was £0.59 per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance if Mr B couldnt work due to accident 
or sickness or if he lost his job. And a successful claim would have paid 5% of the 
outstanding monthly balance on his credit card for up to 12 months per claim. 
Mr B complained to this Service. Our adjudicator thought the claim shouldnt be upheld. Mr B 
 through his representative  disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter
to be looked at again.
Mr Bs representative added it was harder for Mr B to claim unemployment cover until he 
had been working for six months.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
 For the following reasons I wont be upholding Mr Bs complaint. I know this will disappoint 
him, so Ill explain why.
Mr B says he bought the PPI during a meeting. I can see from the copy of the original 
application form that Mr B or the Lloyds adviser ticked a box in the section marked Optional 
features to say he wanted Asset Payment Protection. If he didnt want to take out PPI then 
he or the adviser could have ticked the No box. So I think its likely Mr B knew he had a 
choice about taking out PPI and the Yes box was ticked because he wanted it. 
I can see that after ticking the box for PPI cover he then signed the application form. So 
even if Mr B didnt tick the box for optional PPI, I think he must have seen the form before he 
signed it. And by signing, he consented to have PPI added to his credit card account. 
Both Lloyds and Mr B agree the policy was sold at a branch meeting. Mr B said it was a non-
advised sale, but Lloyds said it was an advised sale. Ill continue on the basis that it was an 
advised sale as Lloyds has to satisfy a more stringent test to show the policy wasnt mis-sold 
to Mr B.
DRN-1158258For an advised sale, the policy had to be suitable for Mr Bs needs. Given his circumstances 
at the time, I dont think the policy was unsuitable for him. This is because he was eligible for 
the policy; it seems it was affordable for him. And he didnt seem to be affected by the main 
things not covered by the policy (the exclusions). 
I then looked at his particular circumstances at the time of the sale to see if the policy was 
still suitable for him.
He told us hed get either no sick pay or statutory sick pay from his employer. He also said 
he had limited savings. I dont think either of these things makes me think the policy was any 
less suitable for him  if his employment had ended, a successful PPI claim could have 
lasted longer than his savings and sick pay. So I think Mr B might have thought he had a 
need for the cover.
I also looked at what information Lloyds gave Mr B about the policy. The information should 
have been clear, fair and not misleading. 
I dont know how Lloyds pointed out the exclusions to him  and Mr B didnt give us any 
details about the conversation he had that day. But from his circumstances at the time, I 
dont think he would have been affected by the main exclusions. So even if Mr B did get a 
full list of the exclusions, I dont think it wouldve changed his mind about buying PPI.
I noted that Mr B had only been working for three months at the time of the sale. I looked at 
the PPI policy which Lloyds said would have been used around that time. It said he had to 
be working or in continuous employment for a period of six months before he could make an 
unemployment claim. I agree with our adjudicator that this is not an onerous term. And he 
had some limited savings in place to help him over that period of three months before he 
could make a claim. So I dont think this term made the policy less suitable for him.
I dont know how Lloyds explained the PPI cost and benefits to Mr B, but it seems PPI was 
affordable. I could see the credit agreement didnt show a breakdown of the amount hed pay 
for the PPI but I cant rule out that the Lloyds adviser may have said something about the 
cost. So I do think the information couldve been clearer  but having decided he chose to 
buy the PPI and having decided it was affordable - I dont think hed have refused it even if 
hed been given more detailed cost information about it. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr B probably consented to the optional PPI being 
added to his credit card account. I think the policy was suitable for his needs and I dont think 
he would have decided against taking it if he had been given better information. So Im not 
going to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman