DRN-3316541
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around September 2018, Mrs S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs S decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In November 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mrs Ss behalf under section 75 
of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mrs S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on her electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan agreement payments.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs S or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
Mrs M had not realized that the document she was asked to sign was the solar 
quote, and had thought that she was just signing something as a formality;
the income and savings from the system would not be enough to cover the monthly 
loan repayments for the first 14 years;
notwithstanding the figures given in the quote, the system would not become self-
funding for over 18 years; and
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mrs S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs S could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing her loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mrs S says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and two copies of the solar quote, both titled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation. Ive considered these, along with Mrs Ss testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mrs S, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to her agreeing to enter into the contract.
The two versions of the quote are dated 11 and 20 September 2018. Both of them have 
been signed by Mrs M, apparently on those dates. The difference between them is that the 
earlier one includes an optional extra (a battery), which has been removed from the later 
one. This has resulted in some of the figures being adjusted slightly, but not by very much.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mrs Ss 
version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. I have 
focused on the most recent quote, since this superseded the earlier one.
If Mrs M did not read the quotes before she signed them, then that was her choice. The 
evidential significance of the quotes is about whether P misrepresented the system to her, 
and whether P did enough to inform her about her purchase. It is not my role to judge the 
wisdom of Mrs Ms purchase, or whether she did enough to inform herself about what she 
was buying. I think it is enough to say here that the quotes made it clear  or would have 
made it clear to her, if she had bothered to glance at them  what they were, and what kind 
of information they contained.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Mrs S has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on her energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mrs Ss recollections of her meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs S could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs S could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £207.64, which results in an average monthly income of £17.30. Im 
satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due 
of £99.96. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mrs S was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs S could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £263.98 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mrs S, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £537.62. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £99.96. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £99.24, but the difference  72p  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for every 
year of the loan, meaning that the system would never make enough money to cover the 
loan payments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs S could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mrs S wasnt told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan repayments.) 
Ive carefully thought about Mrs Ss version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote 
did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that she was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
I am reinforced in my view by this graph from the quote, which plainly showed that the 
system would not be enough to cover the loan payments, and also that it would take nearly 
20 years for Mrs S to break even and begin to make a profit (taking into account the cost of 
the loan).
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs S that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 72p discrepancy 
in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mrs S, so Im 
satisfied that P did enough to bring it to her attention. On balance Im also satisfied that the 
salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mrs S was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the estimated performance over 25 
years. This shows that it would take 13 years for the overall benefits that Mrs S could expect 
to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the 13-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This also shows that during year 13 the overall benefits that Mrs S could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £9,455.
(The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, 
£17,963.20, would be reached by the end of year 20, although that amount is not shown in 
the quote but only in the loan agreement.)
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs S that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 13 years, and for the loan in about 20 years, as supported by the graph and the table 
above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently 
suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 18 years for the system to pay for its 
cash price. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in 
line with the contract between P and Mrs S.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 3,170 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mrs Ss FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 3,082 kWh a year. This is slightly less than estimated by P at the point of sale, so 
Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy generation, if not 
financially. So the reason Mrs S has not seen the expected financial returns is not because 
the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mrs S hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs S could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs S entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs S to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mrs S to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for 
its delay in responding to her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman