DRN-3325555
The complaint
Mrs S complains that UK Credit Limited irresponsibly provided her with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mrs S was given a loan by UK Credit. She applied for the loan in June 2015, for £5000 and 
agreed to repay £201.06 a month over 42 months. The total repayable if the loan went to full 
term would be £8444.52. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. Both parties have received 
a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below. I said;
UK Credit gathered some information from Mrs S before it agreed to the loan. It asked her 
for details of her income and her expenditure. It says it then checked Mrs Ss credit file to 
determine how much she was paying to other lenders. And it asked Mrs S to provide a bank 
statement so it could verify her income.
UK Credit made an assessment of Mrs Ss disposable income and the likelihood that she 
would be able to repay the loan. It used verified income and then expenditure that Mrs S 
declared to it on the phone. It did this by going through a credit search with Mrs S during the 
phone call and then asking further questions about her expenditure.
I can see why UK Credit would think the loan repayment would be affordable based on what 
it had calculated. But I dont think its checks were proportionate and I think it should have 
gathered more information than it did. I say this because in the credit search it had carried 
out and had in front of it, it would have seen Mrs S had made late payments on a mail order 
account and had an outstanding balance to repay on an account that had defaulted. I agree 
with our investigator, that UK Credit didnt ask enough questions about these impaired 
accounts and accepted Mrs Ss answer when she said she was unaware of any defaults or 
problems. It didnt act on the information it had in front of it. When I consider this alongside 
the amount Mrs S was looking to borrow and also the term of the loan, I think UK Credit 
should have done more. 
I would have expected UK Credit to conduct a complete review of Mrs Ss finances to 
ascertain whether she would be able to sustainably make the repayments. So, I think, as 
well as verifying her income, UK Credit should have also looked to verify Mrs Ss 
expenditure within the bank statements that it had gathered rather than relying on declared 
information from Mrs S. This is so it could assure itself of Mrs Ss true financial position and 
that she could make the repayments in a sustainable way.
As I cant see that it did this, I would need to consider what it would have seen if it had 
carried out further checks. Mrs S has provided our service with her personal bank 
statements from a period of time of 3 months leading up to the loan application. So, I have 
been able to review them and look through Mrs Ss expenditure. In doing this I can see that 
there was no credit impairment on the statements and that Mrs Ss living expenses were 
roughly in line with UK Credits assessment. So, I can see that based on its assessment, Mrs 
S would have been able to afford the repayments for the loan. And I havent seen anything 
within the bank statements provided by Mrs S that would suggest to me that further checks 
and further verification of her expenditure would make the loan unaffordable. So, I dont think 
UK Credit irresponsibly agreed to this loan.
So, I currently dont think UK Credit was wrong to give the loan to Mrs S based on the 
circumstances of her complaint.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mrs S did not respond by the deadline given. UK Credit 
responded and said it had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UK Credit has nothing further to add and Mrs S did not reply. So, as neither party has 
anything further to add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my 
provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman