DRN-3810412
The complaint
Ms R has complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). She isnt happy 
about the way it dealt with a claim under her home insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to RSA includes its agents.
What happened
Ms R has had an ongoing claim for a number of years with RSA in relation to a subsidence 
claim which has been difficult and drawn out. RSA was unable to put things right until the 
cause of the subsidence problem was dealt with. But Ms R feels that RSA has delayed in 
settling the claim and caused her stress and inconvenience as she has had to live in the 
property throughout the delayed ongoing repair.
When Ms R complained to this Service our investigator looked into things for her. And she 
accepted RSA delayed matters and its service could have been better and awarded £200 by 
way of compensation. But she thought the options RSA gave Ms R to resolve the claim now 
were fair and in line with the policy. 
RSA agreed to pay compensation for the customer service faults identified but Ms R didnt 
agree so the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a fair degree of sympathy for the position Ms R has found herself in having to deal 
with this difficult and drawn out claim. And I agree with our investigator that £200 
compensation seems fair, Ill explain why.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I know Ms R feels she should be paid a higher level of compensation for the delay and 
inconvenience she has been caused and I can understand that. But insurance claims can 
often be drawn out and difficult, especially subsidence claims like Ms Rs which can be 
complex, and so there was always going to be a fair degree of stress involved here. I agree 
it would not have been practical to start the repairs until the local council had removed the 
trees given the ongoing impact. And I note additional damage was reported and had to be 
assessed and monitored before repairs could be arranged. But, as our investigator identified, 
there were times when RSA couldve been more proactive in moving the claim forward. And 
I know Ms R had to take some time away from work in order to facilitate call outs and 
inspections but unfortunately that is to be expected following a claim like this. However, it is 
accepted by all that RSA did delay things and that its customer service fell below the 
expected standard and I agree £200 compensation in acknowledgement of this seems fair. 
In relation to the ongoing claim I agree that the options put forward by RSA to advance this 
claim seem fair and in line with the policy terms. The policy requires RSA to pay the cost of 
reinstating, repairing or replacing the damage to Ms Rs property and RSAs options are in 
line with this. And it has agreed to get a surveyor to reassess the level of damage to check if 
the schedule of works needs updating in anyway which seems reasonable in the 
circumstances and in line with Ms Rs wishes. I know Ms R is suspicious given the time 
taken to date, but RSA dont wish to delay matters or incur greater costs so Im sure they will 
look to move things on as quickly as possible. And if Ms R doesnt agree with RSAs 
proposals to arrange repair she can choose a cash settlement and arrange the repairs 
privately or submit a quote from her chosen contractor for RSAs approval. So, although I 
can understand Ms Rs position I think RSAs offers seem fair and reasonable here and 
would allow Ms R to take greater control if that is what she wishes.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
should pay Ms R £200 compensation and Ms R can decide how she wishes to advance the 
claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman