DRN-3862850
The complaint
Ms E complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) mishandled her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
On 18 February 2022, Skyfire cancelled Ms Es motor insurance policy as they hadnt 
received the policy premium, or a response to their correspondence requesting payment. 
They also said the full yearly premium was due because there was an open claim recorded 
against the policy, relating to an incident that took place on 21 January 2022.
Ms E didnt think this was fair. She claimed to have previously cancelled the policy and said 
the incident was nothing to do with her, as the car had been sold on 10 January 2022. She 
also explained that her son was the registered keeper of the car, and he made a cash sale 
via a social media app. The car was sold without the V5C, and she couldnt provide any 
evidence from the app to support her position. To resolve her complaint, she asked Skyfire 
to backdate the policy cancellation and stop pursuing her for the full outstanding premium.
After checking their records, Skyfire didnt agree Ms E had attempted to cancel the policy 
before they did. They also said they were required to respond to the claim, as they were the 
only insurer of the car listed on the Motor Insurance Database at the time of the incident. 
However, they agreed to try and defend the claim on Ms Es behalf and encouraged her to 
help by providing any supporting evidence. As per the policy wording, they also confirmed 
that the full policy premium remained due.
An investigator at this service then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He couldnt 
see that Ms E had attempted to cancel the policy, said there wasnt clear proof of sale and 
thought Skyfire had acted reasonably by requesting the full policy premium while attempting 
to defend the claim.
Ms E then requested a final decision and provided bank statements from around the time the 
car was sold. She highlighted a £2,000 cash deposit that was paid into her account on       
26 January 2022, and two further cash deposits that were credited to her sons account the 
following month totalling £1,400. She also stressed the importance of a letter she had 
provided from the DVLA, as this suggested her son disposed of the car on 10 January 2022. 
A different investigator then considered this evidence and shared it with Skyfire, before 
concluding that it didnt reasonably change the outcome. 
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure Skyfire and Ms E that although I have only summarised the 
background and arguments in the section above, I have read and considered everything 
provided about this complaint in its entirety. This includes all of Ms Es points in response to 
the investigators opinion. I have carefully reviewed each of these, but I wont address all of 
them in my decision. Ill focus on the points I think are central to the outcome of the 
complaint.
Ms E has said she asked Skyfire to cancel her policy by telephone and it isnt her fault they 
didnt follow her instructions. Skyfire have provided their contact notes which lists every call 
they received in relation to the policy, and Im satisfied they dont show any calls for the 
month of January 2022. I've also listened to the call recording of Ms Es conversation with a 
Skyfire adviser on 17 February 2022. During this conversation, Ms E said her son (who 
wasnt insured under the policy) should have arranged the cancellation, and she wasnt sure 
if he did. Ive also seen further evidence which suggests Ms E said cancelling the policy 
wasnt a priority for her. So, while I appreciate, she now strongly recalls requesting the policy 
cancellation, Im satisfied the available evidence doesnt support this conclusion. This also 
means Skyfire concluded reasonably that they were legally required to respond to the claim.
Ms E has explained that the car was sold via social media, but she cant provide any 
messages or pictures from the app to show this. I also note that the purchaser agreed to buy 
the car without the V5C. So, the circumstances surrounding the sale appear unusual and I 
agree with Skyfire that the supporting evidence is limited. That said, Ive carefully considered 
the cash deposits shown in the bank statements and based on the dates and amounts 
involved, accept that they could reasonably be connected to the sale. However, as Im sure 
Ms E can appreciate, this cant be determined for certain. Ive also considered the DVLA 
letter dated 9 June 2022. This letter states 10 January 2022 as the cars date of disposal. 
Ive taken this letter on its face value, so there does appear to be some evidence Ms Es son 
and therefore Ms E, may not have been responsible for the car after 10 January 2022. 
Skyfire have explained that while they wont currently backdate the policy cancellation, they 
havent accepted liability and are currently attempting to defend the claim on Ms Es behalf. 
This is because she claims not to have been involved and argues that the car was sold 
before the incident happened. Under the circumstances, and having considered all the 
evidence, I think this is a fair and reasonable response. However, Ms E does need to be 
mindful of the fact the claim is still open, and the outcome isnt guaranteed.
Im also satisfied Skyfire have acted fairly by asking Ms E to pay the full policy premium, as 
there is an open claim currently recorded against her policy. As mentioned above, Skyfire is 
currently attempting to defend the claim, but if their attempts are unsuccessful, they may still 
need to settle it. The policy terms and conditions also explain that Skyfire have the right to 
request the full policy premium in such circumstances.
I know this decision will come as a disappointment to Ms E and I appreciate her strength of 
feeling about this matter. However, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the policy was 
cancelled before the incident took place. Skyfire havent done anything wrong by requesting 
the full policy premium, and by attempting to defend the claim, Im satisfied they are doing 
everything I would reasonably expect.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman