DRN-1952153
The complaint
Mrs and Mr N complain about the policy paperwork they received from AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited for their private health insurance which led to them incurring costs not covered by 
the policy. 
What happened
Mrs N has a private health policy through a company which she jointly owns with Mr N. 
The policy is sold by AXA and AXA is the underwriter insuring the policy. The policy isnt a 
branded AXA policy, its branded by a business that Ill refer to as H. H become part of the 
AXA group before Mrs and Mr N took out their original policy. AXA says the H branded policy 
offers a reduced network of hospitals and specialists compared with AXA branded policies 
so the policy costs less. The policy says H administers the plan and claims on behalf of AXA, 
so Ill just refer to AXA as H acts as AXAs agent.
AXA authorised Mrs N to see a consultant under the policy but that consultant wasnt 
available. Mr N says he told the hospital Mrs N had an AXA policy and the hospital 
suggested another consultant, Mr G, who the hospital said was AXA approved. Mrs N saw 
Mr G and she was advised to have a procedure. When Mr N phoned AXA about the 
procedure it told him Mr G wasnt a Priority Health specialist as defined by the policy so the 
cost of the consultation wasnt fully covered. As Mr G was recognised by AXA it paid 60% of 
the cost, as detailed in the policy. 
Mrs and Mr N complain that the policy paperwork they received was misleading, led them to 
believe they had an AXA policy and they incurred costs as a result. They want AXA to pay 
the £210 they had to pay.
AXA said the policy paperwork was clear Mrs N had a H branded policy and the policy 
recommended that the policyholder contact AXA before arranging a consultation to check 
cover. It also said it paid the claim in line with the policy terms.
Our investigator said the policy documents were clear about the type of policy Mrs N had 
and she should have called to check cover before she saw Mr G.
Mrs and Mr N disagree. They say every renewed policy was sent with AXAs letterheaded 
paper and the documents werent clear it wasnt an AXA policy. Mr N said when he called 
the AXA number it put him through to the claims department and it never made clear AXA 
didnt provide cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has suggested that his complaint should be about H rather than AXA. But H was AXAs 
agent and AXA is the right business for the complaint to be about.  
As AXA is the underwriter for the policy it does provide the insurance cover for the policy, 
through an H branded policy. Like all policies cover is subject to the policy terms. So the real 
issue is whether the policy was clear enough about the cover AXA insured under the policy 
Mrs N had. But as Mrs and Mr N have complained that the policy documents were 
misleading Ive looked at that matter first.
I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen the renewal paperwork for the relevant policy year. The letter is on AXA headed  
paper and says Welcome back to Business Priority Health from (H). The membership 
statement is branded as H, not AXA, and the policy document is branded as H, not AXA. 
I think it was clear enough that Mrs N didnt have an AXA branded policy.
Even if I thought the policy documents werent clear it wasnt an AXA branded policy 
I wouldnt have thought AXA was responsible for the loss Mrs and Mr N incurred. 
The policy is clear if treatment is provided by a specialist who is not a Priority Health 
specialist but who is recognised by AXA it will only pay 60% of the cost and the policyholder 
will be responsible for paying the remainder.
The policy defines a Priority Health specialist as being someone who is recognised by AXA 
and someone whose fees AXA will pay in full.
The policy is also clear that it strongly recommends a policyholder call AXA on a given 
number before the consultation so it can check cover.
Mrs N had AXAs authority to see the first consultant. But when that consultant wasnt 
available, and the hospital recommended Mr G, Mrs and Mr N should have reasonably 
called AXA before the consultation to check if Mr G was a Priority Health specialist, even if 
the hospital did tell them Mr G was AXA approved. If they had called AXA would have told 
them Mr G wasnt someone whose fees it paid in full under the policy.
I dont have any evidence to support that AXA would have paid Mr Gs costs in full under its 
own branded policies. Even if so that doesnt mean AXA has pay his costs in full under this 
policy.
Ive no basis to say AXA should pay the cost of Mr Gs fees that werent covered by the 
policy.
Ive seen the correspondence between our investigator and Mr N about which number he 
called to get to the claims department. But that doesnt make any difference to the outcome 
of my decision for the reasons Ive given above. Mrs and Mr N have also raised that the 
company, which they own, through which they have the policies may make a separate 
complaint. I cant advise them whether to do so and thats a matter for them.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman