The complaint
Miss K complains that a car she acquired from FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA) 
under a hire purchase agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality contrary to the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA). She is represented in bringing this complaint by Miss C, who is the 
user of the car and has been involved in the complaint. However I will refer throughout to 
Miss K as the complainant.
What happened
In July 2016, Miss K entered into a hire purchase agreement with FCA for a new car which 
had a cash price of £12,527. Under the agreement, she made an advance payment of 
£1,000 and agreed to pay the balance of the cash price and finance charges by monthly 
instalments over 48 months.
At the beginning of 2018, Miss K noticed that the car seemed to be using excessive amounts 
of fuel  significantly more than it should have in accordance with the manufacturers 
published fuel consumption figures. When she took the car back to the supplying dealer 
(SD) for its annual service, she asked it to check this.
SD said the fuel consumption was normal and Miss K shouldnt expect to achieve the 
manufacturers published figures as these were obtained under artificial test conditions. 
However, Miss K felt she was putting excessive amounts of fuel into the car which was 
costing her money. So she twice asked another of SDs branches to check the car. It did so, 
and also advised there was no fault with the car.
Miss K took the car back to the first SD branch. She says that on a test drive one of its 
representatives acknowledged that the fuel consumption indicated on the cars display was 
low. But SD refused to assist her. It said that the high fuel consumption was likely to be 
down to the way the car was being driven.
Finally, in July 2019, Miss K complained to FCA about the poor fuel consumption and about 
squealing when the brakes were applied. FCA said that as SD had checked the car and 
were unable to find any fault codes or any actual issues with the car, there was nothing more 
it could do. So Miss K complained to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that under 
CRA Miss K was entitled to expect that the car supplied by FCA was of satisfactory quality. 
To require FCA to take action, the investigator said she would need to be satisfied there was 
a fault with the car that was either present or developing when it was delivered to Miss K.
She said that FCA and SD were correct when they said the fuel consumption of a car would 
vary depending on a number of factors such as driving style, number of passengers, routes 
driven, type of tyres on the car, tyre pressure.
DRN-1147912Miss K had supplied paperwork from SD dated March 2018 detailing the work it carried out 
in response to Miss Ks complaint about the fuel consumption. It said:
Road tested vehicle and reset the average MPG display
On test drive carried out vehicle displayed 37 mpg
vehicle scanned with WITECH diagnosis tool and no faults are stored
27 mpg is appropriate for short/town journeys and colder temps.
 
Miss K had sent the investigator photos of the car dashboard showing recorded MPGs of 
between 22 and 24 mpg. However the investigator didnt think these on their own were 
sufficient to show a fault or issue with the car.
Miss K had now had the car for more than three years. So the investigator thought, in 
fairness, it was up to Miss K to prove there was an issue with the car. As no fault or issue 
had been confirmed, she wouldnt ask FCA to do anymore in the circumstances. But if Miss 
K obtained an independent inspection report that confirmed any fault, we would look at the 
complaint again.
Miss K responded to say, in summary, that:
the car was new when it was acquired, and had never needed any repair;
she didnt accept that any of the factors that had been mentioned would be sufficient 
to result in fuel consumption half that which the manufacturer advertised, and the car 
was never overloaded;
SD had never produced any proof of the 37mpg it claimed the car had achieved, and 
she had disputed this with SD as soon as she saw the paperwork. On the other hand 
she had supplied photos of the MPGs she was regularly getting;
on a recent long journey the car achieved 27mpg;
the fuel consumption had always been poor but she didnt report it immediately 
because she hadnt had a car of this size before, and SD told her that the fuel 
consumption would always be lower in a new car until it settled. She first raised the 
subject with SD about 12 months after delivery;
before she complained to FCA, she had been trying to get a resolution of the issue 
with SD. She only recently found out she could raise a complaint with FCA. So it 
wasnt fair to say she had been slow in complaining to FCA; and
she thought the evidence she had supplied showed the car had a manufacturing fault 
and so was not of satisfactory quality under CRA when supplied.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss K accepts that she couldnt expect to obtain, in normal day to day usage, the same 
MPG figures that the manufacturer advertised and showed in its handbook. However she 
says that the figures she has obtained since she got the car are so far below the 
manufacturers figures that the car must have been supplied with a manufacturing fault, 
which entitles her to a remedy under CRA.
FCA says that the car has been tested by SD, and it was unable to find any fault codes or 
any actual issues with the car. It isnt willing at this stage to pay for an independent inspection of the car. However it says if Miss K arranges such an inspection, and a fault is 
found, it will reimburse the cost of the inspection.
Under CRA Miss K needs to show that there is a fault with the car which causes poor fuel 
consumption. She then needs to show that this fault was present at delivery.
Miss K says she is suffering poor fuel consumption, and this has been going on for a long 
time. But she has produced no independent evidence to support this. Photos of the car 
dashboard showing a fuel consumption figure arent evidence in themselves of a fault  they 
dont show, for example, how the car was being driven. Miss K doesnt seem, for example, to 
have kept a written log for any period showing journeys undertaken, fuel purchased and 
mileage at each date of purchase.
Having tested the car several times, SD says it has been unable to find any fault.
On balance, on the evidence before me, Im not persuaded that the car is suffering from a 
fault that results in poor fuel consumption, far less that such a fault was present at delivery.
If Miss K obtains an independent expert report that concludes that such a fault is present in 
the car, and on the balance of probabilities this fault was present or developing at delivery, 
then this service would reconsider her complaint. 
However as things are, I cant reasonably required FCA to do anything more in respect of 
Miss Ks complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against FCA Automotive 
Services UK Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 February 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman