DRN-2399092
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt offer them a 
retirement interest only (RIO) mortgage when the term of their interest only mortgage 
expired. They ask for an apology and a solution that allows them to stay in their home.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had an interest only mortgage with Halifax. The term expired in early 2020 
with an unpaid balance. 
Mr M spoke to Halifax in March 2019 to discuss his options. Halifax said theyd be eligible for 
a RIO mortgage and should phone again shortly before the mortgage expired.
When Mr M called Halifax again later in 2019 he was told they didnt meet the criteria for a 
RIO. This was because Mrs M wouldnt be able to afford monthly mortgage payments if 
Mr M died. Mr and Mrs M say this is discriminatory.
Halifax said it should have explained it would have to make checks before offering a RIO 
and paid £300 compensation for the disappointment this caused. Mr and Mrs M ask that 
Halifax offers them a RIO, or compensates them for the additional cost of equity release, 
offers a mortgage to their adult children without affordability checks or allows them time to 
sell or put another arrangement in place to repay the mortgage.
Our investigator said Halifax had considered Mr and Mrs Ms application for a RIO fairly. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the final stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax says Mr and Mrs M didnt meet its lending criteria for a RIO. One of its criteria is that 
customers must be able to sustain monthly interest payments. For joint applicants this is 
based on evidence of affordability for the lowest retirement income. Here, Mrs M had the 
lowest retirement income and so that was what Halifax used to assess affordability. 
Mr M says this is discriminatory as women are more likely to have lower pension incomes 
than men. I understand the point he makes. But Mrs M cant afford monthly payments from 
her own income. If monthly payments (which are interest only) arent made in full the debt 
will increase. Thats not the basis on which RIOs are offered  Halifax expects customers to 
pay interest each month. The capital is repaid by the sale of the property. 
It would have been more helpful if Halifax had told Mr and Mrs M in March 2019 they might 
not meet criteria for a RIO. I dont think this error caused financial loss: Mr and Mrs M were 
always going to have to find a way to repay the mortgage and theres nothing to suggest 
their options changed between March and late 2019. However, Mr and Mrs M expected to 
be able to take out a RIO and were disappointed when they were told this wasnt possible. 
Its right that Halifax pays compensation for the upset this caused, and I think £300 is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Halifax discussed Mr and Mrs Ms options to repay the mortgage with them. It said a RIO 
might be affordable for them if they were able to reduce the balance. It said Mr and Mrs M 
could afford a repayment mortgage. While Mr and Mrs M were uncomfortable with the higher 
monthly payments for a repayment mortgage, these would over time reduce the debt owed. 
And there was enough equity in the property to look into equity release, or possibly to 
downsize. So Mr and Mrs M did have some options to explore. 
Mr M says they decided to take out an equity release product. He says this has a higher rate 
of interest and will reduce their equity in the property when its sold. Im sorry Mr and Mrs Ms 
preferred option  for the whole balance to be transferred to a RIO  wasnt available. And 
being given the wrong information about this in March 2019 no doubt added to their 
disappointment. But I dont think this makes it fair and reasonable to require Halifax to 
compensate them for the option they chose. 
Lastly, I should say that Halifax doesnt have to provide its lending criteria to customers. And 
while Mr and Mrs M wrote to its chief executive, I dont think its reasonable to say this 
should have allowed them to bypass Halifaxs usual processes.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I find the compensation 
paid by Bank of Scotland plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman