DRN-3918652
The complaint
Miss L complains that First Central Insurance Management Limited (First Central) unfairly 
cancelled her motor insurance policy.
What happened
For the year from mid-June 2022, Miss L took out a policy through First Central. The policy 
covered her as policyholder and her father, mother and sibling as named drivers.
From late August 2022, First Central sent Miss L email and text messages asking for further 
documents for all the drivers.
By an email and text message dated 30 September 2022, First Central gave Miss L seven 
days notice of cancellation of the policy.
Miss L complained to First Central about the cancellation.
By a short form of final response in mid-October 2022, First Central said it had closed the 
complaint.
Through her father, Miss L brought her complaint to us in late October 2022. He asked for 
compensation of £500.00.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that First 
Central had sent Miss L emails and texts that confirmed that the policy might be cancelled if 
she didnt  send the documents on time. He said the previous provider had cancelled the 
policy and Miss L hadnt told First Central.
Through her father, Miss L disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Her previous insurance provider did not cancel her policy.
On 6 June 2022, her previous provider sent a reminder that the policy was coming to 
an end on 14 June 2022. 
She obtained online quotes from other providers. 
She took out the policy with First Central.
At that time, she provided the driving licence numbers for each person to be covered 
as well as her car registration & address details which was used by First Central to 
access the motor insurance database (MID) to validate all her information before they 
issued the motor insurance policy. 
First Central did not request documents before it issued the insurance.
The documents it requested later did not form part of the contract of insurance.
If any information was missing, then it was First Central's responsibility to request it 
before issuing the motor insurance certificate. 
First Central issued a motor insurance certificate. This proves it had done all the 
necessary validation & checks and given approval. 
The previous provider sent her a confirmation showing her first year's no claims 
bonus.
First Central took over two and half months before requesting the documents.
The documents First Central requested contained all the information she had already 
provided during her initial application. 
First Central should not have cancelled the insurance at such a late stage, in the 
fourth month of policy cover.
After Miss L had uploaded the documents, which was on a Sunday, she called First 
Central the next day Monday to check everything had been received. The customer 
service adviser checked and confirmed all the required documents were correctly 
uploaded but that they had then decided to cancel her policy. She requested the 
adviser to re-instate her policy which they were happy to do but wanted her to go 
through their sales department to pay extra money to continue the same policy.
First Central still charged her a cancellation fee.
This sort of practice of trying to extract more money for the same policy is surely not 
legal.
She faced a lot of stress and worry after First Central cancelled her policy after 2 
months without a valid reason. She was not able to afford a last- minute renewal 
quote and no longer has continuous motor insurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. One of those rules means that, before we can investigate a complaint, the 
consumer must first have made that complaint to the regulated firm and waited for up to 
eight weeks for a final response.
From evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that in early April 2022, a provider other than First 
Central cancelled a policy for the sibling who was one of the named drivers.
From what Miss Ls father has shown us, I accept that she had a policy with another different 
provider. After a claim in May 2022, the policy expired in mid-June 2022. 
The First Central policy was based on a statement of fact document. That included a 
statement that Miss L was the owner and registered keeper of the car.
The statement of fact also included a question whether any of the drivers had ever had 
insurance refused, declined or cancelled. It also included a question whether any of the 
drivers had had any accident or claim in the last five years, regardless of fault. To both 
questions, the answer was no.
In my view, First Central was entitled to rely on those answers and to issue the policy without 
checks - or with checks later.The policy terms included a term allowing the insurer to authorise First Central to cancel the 
policy on seven days notice if the policyholder failed to respond to reasonable requests for 
information.
Miss Ls previous provider wrote to her on 20 June 2022 with evidence of 1 years no-claims 
discount. It also mentioned the claim in May 2022.
I dont find it unreasonable that First Central didnt contact Miss L until late August 2022. Im 
satisfied that it made reasonable requests for information. That included proof of Miss Ls 
claims history and no-claims discount. It also included a copy of the V5 registration 
document of the insured vehicle.
Miss L didnt respond to the first request or to a reminder. So on 30 September  2022, First 
Central gave notice that Miss Ls policy would be cancelled with effect from 7 October 2022. 
Miss L still didnt respond. As I would expect, First Central wrote to Miss L on 7 October 
2022 to confirm that the policy was cancelled.
Miss L and her father havent said which Sunday she contacted First Central. But I find it 
likely that it was after the notice dated 30 September 2022. I havent seen enough evidence 
to show that she provided all the documents First Central had asked for.
As Miss L hadnt responded promptly to reasonable requests for information, Im satisfied 
that the cancellation was in line with the policy terms and not unfair. 
I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct First Central to pay Miss L compensation or to 
change the way it recorded the cancellation or to do any more in response to this complaint.
I cant see that Miss L complained to First Central about its cancellation fees or about asking 
for more money to reinstate the policy. She didnt mention those issues in her complaint form 
to us. So I dont consider that I can comment on those issues in this final decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct First Central Insurance Management Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman