DRN-2427483
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way his landlord insurance claim for water damage was handled by 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA), and with the compensation offered to him.   
What happened
Mr G lets out a flat in a block. There was a leak from an upstairs flat in June 2017 which was 
dealt with by the block insurer. In October 2017 Mr Gs tenants reported a leak into the flat 
with water pooling under the hot water cylinder. Then part of the ceiling collapsed.  Mr G 
reported this claim to RSA, who appointed a loss adjuster. Mr G was asked to obtain two 
estimates for repair. Mr G asked the loss adjuster to visit the property but he declined until 
the estimates were available. In the meantime Mr G arranged repairs of the heating system, 
the source of the leak. He further sent detailed photos and a video of the condition of the flat. 
I understand that the block insurer paid the tenants rent from the end of October, when they 
moved out, until March 2018. There is no cover for lost rent on the RSA policy. Mr G had a 
lot of difficulty in obtaining any estimates, but managed to obtain an estimate for the repairs 
and the carpets which he forwarded to RSA in late January 2018. 
The loss adjuster carried out a site visit on 26 February 2018. He asked Mr G to provide 
another estimate. Mr G explained the difficulties he had had obtaining the first estimate and 
further explained hed been injured in a road accident in February. He spoke to RSA in early 
May. In that call, there was a suggestion that RSA would appoint its contractor to assess the 
work, but nothing came of this
There was then no further action until late October 2018 when Mr G supplied RSA with a 
further estimate, which the loss adjuster agreed to review. Mr G heard nothing further and 
contacted RSA in early January 2019 to register a complaint. It appears that around this time 
Mr G decided to carry out the repairs himself. Having heard nothing further, he contacted 
RSA in March 2019, and he was told the complaint hadnt been registered. The loss adjuster 
reviewed the second estimate in early May and said it was acceptable. Mr G felt he couldnt 
accept this without an offer for the carpets and flooring. 
In late May 2019 RSA reviewed Mr Gs complaint. It accepted that the claim hadnt 
progressed in a timely manner, with service errors and avoidable delays. It also accepted 
that Mr G had spoken to it in January 2019, when actions had been agreed. The complaint 
wasnt recorded and no action took place. It assessed that for the disruption and 
inconvenience and the effect itd had on him, Mr G should be paid compensation of £2,500. 
It sent Mr G a cheque for this amount, but Mr G declined to cash it.
So far as Im aware Mr G is still in negotiations with RSA about the costs of repair. The 
issues around the settlement itself, from May 2019 dont form part of the investigators 
assessment, nor of this decision.
Mr G completed the repairs in June 2019, and new tenants moved in at the beginning of July 
2019. He referred his complaint to this service indicating he wasnt happy with the 
compensation offered. In particular he said hed suffered medical problems through having 
do the repairs himself. He also said hed lost earnings through having to attend to the repairs 
and being unable to undertake professional contracts in his work. He further said he had lost 
rent from March 2018 until the new tenants had moved in. He said also that he had had to 
pay council tax after the first year following the tenants moving out.
Our investigator said that as RSA was responsible, on its own admission for ten months 
delay it should pay Mr Gs loss of rent for that ten months. She also said that it should 
reimburse Mr G for the council tax. In respect of the compensation she considered that RSA 
had made a fair offer. She didnt think that it should pay Mr Gs loss of earnings.
RSA objected to this. It pointed out that Mr G didnt have loss of rent cover on his policy and 
had chosen not to, despite the risk. It said that it had offered a generous payment for 
compensation taking into account all the issues. It further pointed out that Mr G took eight 
months to provide the second estimate. And that it had sent several reminders to Mr G about 
the proposed settlement after May 2019 which hed failed to respond to.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am considering in this decision the issues concerning the way the claim was handled up 
until May 2019. I havent considered the actual settlement put forward as Mr G hasnt raised 
a complaint with us about that.
I do think that RSA badly failed Mr G in this case. First of all the loss adjuster said he 
wouldnt come out and do a site visit until Mr G had provided two estimates. He sent in, as 
requested, photos of the damage and a video, but these were ignored until Mr G was able to 
send in an estimate. He explained to the loss adjuster how difficult it was for him to get this 
estimate and sent details of the efforts hed been to. Yet he was still asked to get a second 
estimate. When he raised this with RSA it appeared that it did suggest sending out its 
contractor to assess the damage, but the phone call was cut off. As far as I can see the 
matter was just left until Mr G got in touch again with the second estimate in October 2018. 
When he didnt receive a reply to that estimate for over two months, he rang to complain, 
and was assured that action would be taken. No action was taken and the complaint wasnt 
registered. It took over six months for RSA to respond concerning the second estimate.
I think RSA should have been far more proactive in this matter, particularly when Mr G 
advised it of his difficulties getting estimates. No payment was offered until over 17 months 
after the claim was reported. There was no indication in that time that RSA wasnt going to 
accept the claim, and it should at least have either considered interim payments or offered 
the services of its contractors.
With regard to the repairs which Mr G undertook, I cant see from the papers that he told 
RSA that that was what he was doing. I cant say that RSA was responsible for the medical 
condition he suffered, but nevertheless its reasonable to take this into account in the 
compensation figure. Having done so I consider that £2,500 was a fair and reasonable 
payment to make for this. I note that Mr G refused to cash the cheque for this and it has now 
expired. If he wants RSA to issue a new cheque he should get in touch with it directly.
In respect of his lost earnings, it was Mr Gs choice to carry out the repairs himself and as 
Ive said I cant see that he got in touch with RSA at the time to tell it that was what he was 
doing. If he had, it might have then been able to consider an interim payment. I dont 
propose to make an award for loss of earnings.In respect of the rent lost, RSA has pointed out that Mr G chose not to have loss of rent 
cover on his policy. But I think that misses the point  the proposal is that RSA pay loss of 
rent for the period of delay it was liable for. This is from September 2018 to June 2019 
inclusive, a period of ten months. This takes into account that Mr G took five months to carry 
out repairs. RSA has pointed out that its contractor could have done the repairs in a shorter 
time. However, I dont propose to make RSA pay rent for the period when the repairs were 
carried out (as would be the case if there was policy cover for it). So, the ten months rent is 
for the time that RSA admits itself it caused delays. It is outside the policy terms, and I doubt 
that the rent would have been recoverable under the block policy for another insurers delay. 
Mr G has shown us evidence that he was able to rent the property out straightaway after the 
repairs were completed, so I think RSA should pay the ten months loss of rent.
As for the council tax, I think that should be paid as well, with interest from the date Mr G 
paid it. The tenants moved out at the end of October 2017. Mr G had council tax relief for a 
year, which means that RSA should pay the council tax from November 2018 until June 
2019 inclusive.   
With regard to these issues arising after the final decision, RSA certainly was aware of the 
council tax as Mr G sent copies of the bills in April 2019. I think it fair that loss of rent should 
be considered as it is a compensation issue, rather than an issue concerning policy cover. 
Putting things right
RSA is required to pay to Mr G ten months loss of rent, calculated by reference to the last 
rent Mr G received before the tenants moved out.
RSA should also reimburse Mr G for payments he made for council tax on the property from 
November 2018 until June 2019 inclusive. If he hasnt already done so Mr G should send 
RSA copies of the bills with evidence of payment. RSA should add simple interest* at the 
rate of 8% per year from the date he paid the bills until the date it repays Mr G.
*Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax 
from any interest paid. Should Mr G request it, RSA should provide him with a certificate 
showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, he can reclaim it.
My final decision
 I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to act in accordance 
with what Ive said under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman