DRN-4282639
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Charter Court Financial Service Limited, trading as Charter Savings 
Bank (CSB), allocated a deposit she made to her ISA to the wrong tax year.
What happened
Mrs H made a deposit of £17,000 to CSB on 3 April 2023  two days before the end of the 
2022/2023 tax year  to use her available ISA allowance for that tax year. But CSB didnt 
allocate the £17,000 to Mrs Hs ISA until 7 April 2023, which meant it counted against the 
2023/2024 tax years allocation. Mrs H wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
CSB responded to Mrs H and explained that her ISA had become inactive as per ISA rules 
because she hadnt contributed to it during the prior tax year. This meant CSB needed Mrs H 
to agree to a new ISA declaration before they could allocate the £17,000 Mrs H had sent to 
them to her ISA. But because CSB were able to obtain a new ISA declaration from Mrs H on 
7 April 2023, they were only able to allocate the money to Mrs Hs ISA on that same date. 
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with CSBs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that CSB had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ISAs are a regulated product with specific rules that all ISA providers must adhere to. One of 
these rules is that if no contributions are received to an ISA within a tax year, that ISA 
becomes inactive. And another rule is that if a person wants to contribute to an ISA which 
has become inactive, they must provide a new ISA declaration to their ISA provider before 
that provider can accept any contributions to that ISA.
In this instance, Mrs Hs ISA had become inactive. Because of this, CSB were obliged to 
require a new ISA declaration from Mrs H before they could allocate the £17,000 that she 
sent them to her ISA. And because Mrs H deposited her money with CSB so close to the 
end of the 2022/2023 tax year, CSB werent able to obtain the required ISA declaration from 
her until that tax year had ended.
CSB have said that they would have liked to have been able to contact Mrs H before the end 
of the 2022/2023 tax year so that the £17,000 could have been considered as part of her ISA 
allocation for that tax year  as Mrs H intended. But theyve also explained that the end of 
the tax year is one of their busiest times and so were unfortunately unable to do so. And 
CSBs explanation in this regard seems reasonable to me.
Mrs H did send a secure message to CSB on 4 April 2023  the day after she transferred the 
money to them and a day before the end of the tax year  asking when the money would be 
credited to her ISA. But CSBs timescale for responding to secure messages is two working 
days. And while CSB didnt meet this two-day timescale in this instance, only calling Mrs H 
after three days on 7 April, if they had responded to Mrs Hs secure message after two days, 
this still would have been after the end of the 2022/2023 tax year.
Ultimately, as the ISA account holder, it was Mrs Hs responsibility to have understood that 
her ISA had become inactive such that a new ISA declaration was required. And while I 
appreciate that this might not have been something that Mrs H was aware of, it was a 
consequence of ISA rules and was explained in the product literature which Mrs H had been 
presented with when she opened the account. 
And while its unfortunate that CSB werent able to obtain a new ISA declaration from Mrs H 
because she transferred the £17,000 to them so close to the end of the tax year, I dont feel 
that this can fairly be considered as being CSBs fault. This is not only because the end of 
the tax year is an understandably busy time for CSB. But because I feel Mrs H could have 
done several things differently which would have mitigated against what happened here.
These include that Mrs H could have transferred the £17,000 to CSB sooner, thus allowing 
more time for any complications to be resolved before the tax year ended. And I also feel 
that if Mrs H was concerned about the allocation of her money, she reasonably should have 
contacted CSB by telephone, rather than by secure message, at which time the status of her 
ISA could have been explained and a new ISA declaration obtained from her.
I acknowledge that what happened here was unfortunate for Mrs H. But for the reasons 
outlined above, I dont feel that what happened was unfair, and so I wont be upholding this 
complaint. I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs H was wanting. But I hope that shell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Its my understanding that CSB have made an offer of compensation to Mrs H for their not 
being able to obtain a new ISA declaration from her before the end of the tax year. I leave it 
to Mrs H to decide whether she will accept this offer. But I wont be issuing any 
corresponding or further instructions to CSB, given that I find this complaint in their favour. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman