DRN-3686843
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) for its decision to decline 
their claim for damage sustained to a boundary wall during a storm. They want Aviva to 
settle their claim in full. 
What happened
Mrs B and Mr B held buildings insurance with Aviva. Their cover included damage caused by 
storm and by accidental damage. 
In February 2018, windstorms affected their area. Their property sustained damage to their 
homes thatched roof, to a barn roof and to a boundary wall. 
They submitted a claim to Aviva. 
Aviva sent a loss adjuster to their home. The Loss Adjuster accepted that damage had been 
caused to their thatched roof by the storm winds. 
The Loss Adjuster did not consider that there was evidence of storm damage to the barn 
roof, or the boundary wall, and considered that the signs of damage seen were as a result of 
wear and tear. 
Based on this assessment, Aviva settled the claim for the thatched roof, and declined the 
other two parts of the claim. 
Mrs B and Mr B complained to Aviva. They felt that the proximate cause of the damage to 
both the barn and boundary wall was the storm, and that both would have continued if the 
storm had not occurred.
Aviva agreed that the damage to the barn roof could have been caused by the storm winds 
and agreed to settle that part of the claim. Aviva maintained its decision to decline the 
boundary wall damage.
Mrs B and Mr B complained to us. Our investigator looked into this matter and did not 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. They considered that Aviva had demonstrated 
other factors which had caused the wall to deteriorate. They therefore did not think that 
Avivas decision was unreasonable.
Mrs B and Mr B did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs B and Mr Bs upset about this matter. They have explained that, as far as 
they were concerned, the wall was brought down by the storm and if the storm had not 
occurred the wall would have remained in place for a long time to come. 
I do, however, agree with the investigators view. 
Our approach to considering storm claims is to look at three questions. i) was there a storm, 
ii) is the damage typical of the type of damage caused by a storm, and iii) is the storm the 
main cause of the damage.
Here there is no dispute that a storm took place in February 2022, and the wall was 
subjected to high winds. There is also no dispute that the wall was brought down by the 
winds.
The wall was a single course thick and photographs provided by Aviva demonstrate a large 
tree leaning on the end of the wall. There is evidence that there has historically been ivy and 
other plant growth on the wall, and mortar is corroded and missing from the remaining parts 
of the wall. Photographs taken along the wall show that the line of the wall is not straight, 
suggesting that lateral pressure from the tree resting on it had put pressure thorough the 
length of the wall. Photographs of the wall before the storm also appear to show signs of 
cracking. 
Overall, the Loss Adjuster considered that there were multiple factors which contributed to 
the wall collapsing, and that the storm was not the operating cause of the wall failing. Instead 
the corrosion, vegetation and the pressure from the tree were the main causes of the 
damage. These causes all occurred gradually over time and so were excluded by the policy.
Looking at the questions we consider, I cannot be satisfied that the answers to the second 
and third questions are yes, and so I do not think that Avivas conclusion and decision to 
decline were unreasonable. 
I note that Mrs B and Mr B have suggested that their accidental cover may better suit the 
circumstances, but I note that the exclusion of damage which occurs gradually also applies 
to the accidental cover section of their policy. 
Overall, whilst I appreciate that this will be disappointing to Mrs B and Mr B, I do not think 
that Aviva has reached an unreasonable conclusion in relation to this claim, and I do not 
think it has acted unfairly.
As a result, I do not uphold Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint and do not ask Aviva Insurance 
Limited to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs B and Mr Bs complaint and do not ask 
Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman