DRN-3941271
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as S has complained that Wilson Insurance Services Limited
(WISL) made an error when renewing their commercial insurance policy which meant they
werent covered for losses caused by Covid-19.
Mrs W, a director of S, has complained on Ss behalf through a representative. For ease of
reading, I will refer to S throughout.
What happened
S held a commercial insurance policy through WISL. At the renewal in 2019 S told WISL that
it had found a more competitive quote but gave WISL the opportunity to match it. WISL
forwarded the quote to a sub-broker who Ill refer to as M. M said S currently held a pre-
school policy and the alternative quote S it had provided was for a nursery policy. M said
they could source a nursery policy for S instead.
In order for cover to commence under a nursery policy, M said S needed to complete a
proposal form. The proposal forms were sent to S.
WISL said they told M to hold cover on the policy as S was returning the proposal form by
post. WISL said they had no response so chased M a few days later asking for a response.
M sent WISL an email containing a link to the policy which WISL forwarded on to S. WISL
received a completed proposal form for Ss other company on the same day and forwarded it
to M. The completed proposal form for S was received by WISL a few weeks later.
S claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments
response to the pandemic. The insurer said that the policy in place was the pre-school policy
and declined Ss claim because the pre-school policy didnt cover what had happened.
S complained to WISL as it thought the error had led to its claim being declined. WISL said
that while they had forwarded the email on to S, M was responsible for any errors which
caused Ss losses. WISL said they told M to hold cover, yet it issued cover under the
incorrect pre-school policy, despite being asked to provide a nursery policy.
Unhappy with WISLs response, S brought its complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Ss complaint and recommended it be upheld. She thought that
WISL had made an error and that had caused S a loss. She recommended WISL
compensate S to the value of what it would have received in payment for the claim, which it
thought was £6,336.06. She also recommended that WISL add interest to that amount due 
to the time S had been without the money.
WISL disagreed. They remained of the view that the loss was caused by M and queried what
M had done with the proposal forms that they had forwarded. WISL asked for an
ombudsman to reach a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 November 2022. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that there were two firms involved in placing Ss policy with the insurer, WISL
and M. However, as this complaint is against WISL I can only comment on what WISL, and
not M, might or might not have done wrong. Having reviewed all of the information, while I do
think WISL made an error I dont intend to require WISL to pay S any compensation. Ill
explain why below.
When selling Ss policy, WISL had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not
misleading.
I can see that M emailed WISL with the proposal form which was needed to get a
quotation. WISL responded by asking for a response to its email asking M to hold cover. M
responded by providing a copy of the pre-school policy documents.
Ive reviewed the email that M sent to WISL which was then forwarded to S. The email says,
Thank you for your instructions to proceed with your clients Pre-school policy. Ive
considered WISLs point that M is the one that made the error, but whether or not M made
errors, I think WISL made errors.
The email from M, which WISL forwarded to S, didnt answer WISLs question and I think
WISL should have noticed that the content of the email didnt correspond with what had
been asked. I also think WISL should have been aware that, as the proposal form was
needed to obtain a quotation, its unlikely M would have been able to put the nursery cover in
place without the proposal form. I think WISL should have noticed that the email from M
wasnt the cover that had been requested and if they had noticed the error S would have
asked WISL to ensure that the nursery policy was put in place instead.
Where I believe there has been an error, I look at how to put the policyholder back in the
position they would have been in if the error hadnt occurred. So, Ive considered the cover
that S would have had if the nursery policy had been put in place.
The nursery policy provides cover where access to the premises is hindered or prevented
due to an emergency which is likely to endanger life or property. There is an exclusion for
notifiable human infectious or contagious diseases, but notifiable human infectious or
contagious diseases is defined as a specific list of diseases which doesnt include Covid-19.
I think this clause would have provided cover for Ss claim and WISL doesnt seem to
dispute this. So Ive thought about what the insurer would likely have paid out under this
clause.
The part of the policy which looks to provide cover has a three month indemnity limit. S said
it was impacted from 21 March 2020. S hasnt indicated that there is any further period of
loss. So I think losses would be payable between 21 March 2020 and 20 June 2020.
The terms and conditions of the policy say that the insurer will pay for the loss of gross
revenue or increased cost of working. S has indicated that its claim is for loss of gross 
revenue.
Under Basis of Claims Settlement Clauses the policy says:
loss of gross revenue being the amount by which the gross revenue during the
indemnity period falls short of the standard gross revenue in consequence of the
damage less any sum saved during the indemnity period in respect of such of thecharges and expenses of the childcare business payable out of gross revenue as
may cease or be reduced in consequence of the damage
Ive thought about how Ss claim would be settled in line with this by an insurer along with
information S has provided from its accountant.
Expected turnover 7,906.19
Less actual turnover 1,520.48
Shortfall in turnover 6,385.71
Less savings
Staff saving compared to 2019 1,405.1
Furlough 5,403.88
Loss -423.27
The information above was updated from a previous letter from the accountant due to the
accountant mistakenly not including PAYE and pension contributions in the calculation.
I believe that an insurer would have deducted any saving S made in staffing costs as well
what S received in furlough for this period. I think an insurer would have been entitled to
deduct furlough from the claim settlement as the policy is to cover Ss losses and furlough is
a saving S made against its losses.
The figures provided by Ss account indicate that S didnt make a loss when compared with
the same period the previous year. As S didnt make a loss, I dont think it would have
received any money from the insurer for its claim. Therefore, while I do think WISL made an
error Im not persuaded that S experienced a financial loss which it would be fair and
reasonable for WISL to compensate it for. It follows that I dont intend to require WISL to pay
S any compensation in relation to its claim.
I recognise this isnt the outcome S hoped for given that it believed it had experienced a loss
of revenue. However, having considered things very carefully, I dont intend to uphold this
complaint.
WISL agreed with the outcome of my provisional decision in order to resolve the complaint.
They also let us know that there was no excess payable on the nursery policy. S didnt agree
and provided further comments. Some comments relate to a separate complaint so I have
only included the ones relevant to this complaint. It said:
It is unfair to deduct the wage salary from 2019 because the difference in staffing
            cost between the years isnt as a result of the insured event, it is as a result of
            the difference in staffing numbers required due to the number of children on roll.
            Due to the requirement for minimum staffing levels the wage bill can change
            substantially while only marginally impacting the turnover.
The amount of loss is higher than I have set out and a fair amount would be
            £9,028.13. During the first lockdown S was required to provide care to key worker
            children and it was from these placements that the amount of £1,520.48 was
            received. Due to the rules around furlough, S wasnt able to claim furlough for these
            members of staff and due to the small number of children attending paid £8,046.30
            in excess wages. S believes that it should be possible to claim for this under
            increased cost of working.
S would also like to claim £3,405 for its accountants costs as the policy says these
            are recoverable.I asked for WISLs comments on this. WISL responded to say that M had some responsibility
for what happened but what happened was a genuine error. WISL said it had always acted
in good faith. WISL said that the accountants fees seemed high given the size of S. WISL
made an offer to settle Ss complaint in line with how Id recommended in my provisional
decision. S said it would prefer me to reach a decision on what I consider to be the fair and
reasonable outcome.
On 25 January 2023 I sent an email to both parties with my further intended findings. I said:
Difference in wage costs
I note Ss point on this but I remain of the view that, in the absence of evidence to show what
the staffing figures would have been for the claim period if the insured event had not
happened, that this remains the most appropriate method of calculating Ss loss when
comparing the turnover to the same period during the previous year.
Value of claim
I recognise that Ss staffing is dependent on the number of children on roll and the ages of
those children. And that having a small number of key worker children might mean that S
was required to have the same amount of staff working as they would ordinarily have for a
higher number of children. However, I havent seen anything to suggest that S had to take
on any additional staff and it would always have had to pay the staff that it was contracted to
pay. I understand that S couldnt furlough as many staff as it needed them to work but I dont
think that needing the contracted staff to work was an extra cost and therefore I dont believe
this is an amount that S should be compensated for.
As I am not an insurer it is difficult for me to put an exact figure on the amount that S would
have been paid by the insurer if it had bought the policy it should have bought. I have
therefore reached a decision based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all of the
circumstances based on the evidence that has been presented to me. Having done so, I
remain of the view that S has not evidenced a loss of revenue when compared to what it
would have been without the restrictions as a result of the restrictions on its business.
Accountants fees
The nursery policy says:
We will pay under this Section reasonable charges payable by you to
professional accountants for producing any particulars or details or any other
proofs, information or evidence as may be required by us and reporting that such
particulars or details are in accordance with your books of account or other
business books or documents provided that the sum of the amount payable
under this clause and the amount otherwise payable under the Section will in no
case exceed the Maximum Amount Payable
The policy doesnt specify that there ultimately needs to be a loss in order for the
accountants costs to be paid so I think they would be payable under the policy. WISL
have queried the number of hours and the hourly rate.
While the hourly rate does seem high, if S has paid this amount or is required to pay this
amount then I think it would be fair and reasonable for WISL to compensate it for this. The
fees are from a qualified accountant and I have been provided with some detail to explain
the breakdown of the work involved. I recognise that an insurer might have limited the hourlyrate, but S didnt have the opportunity to discuss this with the insurer while a claim was
ongoing. I also recognise that S might have needed its accountant to provide more or less
information than it would have done to an insurer. But S presented information from its
accountant that it believed was relevant in order to demonstrate its claim and its complaint
so I think it would be fair and reasonable for WISL to pay them. I therefore ask that S to
provide invoices and bank statements to show that these fees have been paid. If S shows
this amount has been paid then I think WISL should reimburse these fees as well as the fees
which remain outstanding. If S is VAT registered, WISL does not need to pay the VAT
element of the fees.
WISL said they still thought the accountants fees were high but accepted the outcome in
order to resolve Ss complaint.
S provided invoices as well as copies of its bank statements showing payments to its
accountant. S confirmed that its accountant is not VAT registered so it did not pay any VAT.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have not received any further comments to persuade me to depart from the outcome set
out in my provisional decision and email of 25 January 2023, I remain of the view that its fair
and reasonable for WISL to compensate S for the financial loss caused by its error.
S has provided copies of its bank statements showing that it makes monthly payments
towards its accountant fees. I have also been provided with invoices for these fees and I am
persuaded that S is required to pay them. S has confirmed that there is not a VAT element to
the fees. Therefore, I think it is fair and reasonable for WISL to reimburse Ss accountant
fees as I believe this is its financial loss due to WISLs error. I have not awarded interest on
the accountant fees as I think the reimbursement of them is sufficient compensation. I have
also not made any further deductions as WISL confirmed that there is no excess payable
within the business interruption section of the policy.
Putting things right
To put things right WISL should pay S £3,405 to compensate it for its financial loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Wilson Insurance Services
Limited to pay S £3,405 to compensate it for its financial loss.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman