DRN-3787785
The complaint
Mr C has complained about his let property insurer Zurich Insurance PLC because it has 
voided his policy (treated it as though it has never existed) and, by association, declined his 
claim for malicious damage caused to the property after the tenant left.
Mr C has been represented in this complaint by his broker. But Mr C is the complainant so 
for ease, in the main, Ill only refer to Mr C.
What happened
Mr C owns a property which he rents out. He arranged insurance for the property via a 
broker. In June 2019 the cover was placed with an insurer L, who works under authority from 
Zurich to provide insurance. The agreement in place with Zurich sets out what risks L can 
accept or reject on Zurichs behalf, and also certain circumstances where matters have to be 
referred to Zurich for further consideration.  
When the broker arranged the cover with L, certain detail was passed on and which L/Zurich 
relied upon in agreeing to offer cover. The policy paperwork reflected and confirmed this.
In December 2019 Mr C was alerted to damage having been caused to the property. Police 
investigations determined that the tenant had moved out in late October and the empty 
property was subsequently broken into. Zurich began investigating the claim. But became 
concerned about the details on which it/L had agreed to offer cover.
In January 2021, following investigations and further consideration, Zurich told Mr C it was 
thinking of voiding his policy, which would mean it wouldnt deal with his claim. It explained 
this was based on a number of details Mr C had provided to it being wrong as well as some 
detail having come to light which he should have told it about, but hadnt. Mr C objected and 
further correspondence was exchanged. In June 2021, Zurich said it had decided to void the 
policy. It confirmed that the policy premium would be refunded. In September 2021, Zurich 
confirmed its final response on the matter was that the decision set out in June 2021 would 
stand. Mr C complained to us.
Our Investigator felt Zurich had acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. So he 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr C said he felt the outcome was unfair. He said other insurers would cover him in these 
circumstances. He also said L had told him it would have had no concerns offering cover  
so he felt Zurich had considered things too narrowly, only taking into account its own view of 
things, and not Ls. Mr C said Zurich had knowingly created a situation where a large 
number of points were put together to form an overall less favourable picture than if the 
issues of concern were considered individually.   
Our Investigator provided a further response to Mr C. But when he remained unhappy his 
complaint was passed for consideration by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that it is frustrating for Mr C to face a situation where he has no cover for the 
loss he has suffered. And I also understand that his broker thinks Zurich has acted unfairly 
here, and that the views taken seem to be at odds with a business agreement it had with L. 
Im aware of some other concerns raised too. 
I know Mr C would have liked Zurich to meet him part way  and offer some settlement for 
the claim (which would take into account that the property was likely underinsured). But 
Zurich had identified some significant policy liability issues which it needed to investigate and 
decide upon. So I think it was reasonable that it didnt offer any settlement on the claim.
I know there were also some concerns that arose regarding the unoccupancy of the 
property. But the unoccupancy wasnt a reason given by Zurich for the voidance. And it is 
the dispute about the voidance which is the focus of this complaint.   
Regarding the voidance, I appreciate that Mr C has raised an argument about what the 
previous underwriter for the policy was prepared to do. But what it would do is not in 
question here. Here the focus has to be on the criteria which was used by L and Zurich to 
determine whether or not to offer cover.
In that respect I know Mr C may have been given detail verbally about Ls view on risk, 
which has caused him to think his situation would have been acceptable to L. But I cant 
reasonably take that report as being most likely when there is a formal, documented 
business agreement in place between L and Zurich. And I also bear in mind that L might also 
have access to other insurers who may have different risk criteria to Zurich. But the issue 
here is that Zurich was the insurer behind the policy Mr C had at the time of the loss, and 
which had been put in place, at least in part, based on detail provided by Mr C which was 
unacceptable to Zurich. 
I know that regarding the position Zurich took in that respect, Mr C is concerned that 
individual, minor issues were conflated, causing an unfair outcome. I can understand Mr Cs 
concern but I dont think its fair to say that is what likely happened here. And, in any event, 
my review satisfies me that even just in respect of one of the policy liability issues, if the 
correct position had been presented to L and Zurich, Zurich wouldnt have offered the cover.  
One of the things Mr C detailed in his application was that there was a tenancy agreement in 
place between him and the tenant. The policy paperwork confirmed that this was one of the 
facts upon which the offer of the policy was based. But Mr C has since said that there is no 
agreement. That the tenant was in place when Mr C bought the property and that the 
tenancy just continued, with no paperwork or agreement existing between Mr C and the 
tenant. And no detail has been provided to show that a previous agreement continued and 
was transferred to Mr C upon purchase of the property. So Im not persuaded that Mr C gave 
Zurich accurate information about the tenancy agreement. And Zurich has shown us that 
where a prospective policy is being applied for and there is no tenancy agreement in place, 
the agreement it has with L requires L to refer the application to Zurich for further 
consideration. Zurich has provided detail to this service which satisfies me that if Mr Cs 
application had been referred to it, its most likely that it would have found that the risk Mr C 
presented  as a landlord letting a property without a formal tenancy agreement being in 
place between him and the tenant  was unacceptable to it. I can understand that. I know 
Mr C had not been advised by his legal representatives that a formal agreement would be 
needed  but that has no bearing on what Zurich has shown it wouldnt accept. Not when Mr C knew there was no formal agreement in place, but told Zurich that there was, causing it 
to offer a policy to Mr C which it otherwise wouldnt have done. 
With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr C, I think the risk he presented 
as a landlord seeking a policy to cover his let property was misrepresented to Zurich when 
cover was applied for. As such, and because Zurich has shown it wouldnt have offered 
cover if a fair presentation of that risk had been presented to it, Zurichs act of voiding Mr Cs 
cover is, in my view, fair and reasonable. By association, the claim for damage falls away. 
Consequently I think Zurich did nothing wrong and I dont uphold this complaint.
  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Zurich Insurance PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman