DRN-3124619
The complaint
Miss B says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss B took out a PPI policy in November 1990, following a mortgage she took out in 
August 1990. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs case. Having done so, I wont be upholding 
Miss Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Miss B that the policy was optional. And it had to get her 
consent before it added PPI to her account. Santander says it would have done this. But 
Miss B says it was not made clear that it was optional, and after initially turning the policy 
down, she was led to believe she had to have it. Miss B also says she was pressured into 
taking the policy. 
Ive thought carefully about what Miss Bs said, but pressure is a subjective area  what one 
person perceives as pressure may be different to another. I cant know exactly what would 
have been said during the meeting. So, without more information from Miss B, I cant say 
she was pressured into taking the policy.
Both Miss B and Santander have provided paperwork from around the time of sale and 
Miss B, is correct in saying she initially confirmed she did not want the policy. A mortgage 
offer was then sent to her, which under the heading Special Conditions, said that Miss B 
should complete an application form for PPI to give her peace of mind. I can see why Miss B 
might have thought she needed to take it at this point. 
But Santander has confirmed Miss Bs mortgage started three months before the PPI policy 
was put in place. And, considering this delay, I think its difficult to say Miss B wouldnt have 
known she didnt have to have the policy or that she couldnt have refused it if she didnt 
want it. So, overall, I think its more likely than not that Miss B was aware she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time. 
Miss B says she was given advice and Santander agrees. That means as well as giving 
Miss B enough information about the policy, Santander also had to check it was suitable for 
her. And based on what Ive seen, I think it was.
Miss B was eligible for the policy and she doesnt seem to have been affected by any of the 
terms which might have made it harder for her to claim on the policy, such as having a pre-
existing medical condition or unusual employment circumstances.
The policy originally cost £20.50 per month, although this later increased. The initial monthly 
benefit based on this cost was £410, and this would have covered Miss B if she was too ill to 
work or made involuntarily redundant. Its unclear how long either benefit would have paid 
out for when the policy was first arranged. But we know when the policy changed in 1992, 
the monthly benefit would have been paid for up to 36 months per claim for accident and 
sickness and up to 12 months per claim for unemployment.
Miss B says she was entitled to full sick pay from her employer if she was too ill to work. She 
also says she had an endowment policy with her mortgage and a pension in place, so she 
didnt need the policy and didnt want the additional cost. 
Ive thought about everything Miss B has said, but I dont think Santander was wrong to 
recommend the policy to her based on the other means available to her. I say this because 
its unclear precisely how long Miss B would have received full sick pay for. And, compared 
to the policy benefits, I dont think the likely sick pay she would have been entitled to would 
have meant the policy wasnt useful to her. The policy would have paid out in addition to any 
sick pay Miss B did receive and she could have made repeat claims subject to a 
requalification period.
In terms of the other insurance Miss B held, the endowment was intended to pay off her 
mortgage at the end of the term, and I so I think its reasonable to conclude Miss B would 
have preferred not to cancel it early for a period of sickness or redundancy. I also dont think 
Miss B would have wanted to withdraw from her pension even if she was able to. So, 
considering everything, I think the PPI could have been useful to her if she fell on hard times.
And although Miss B says she was trying to keep costs down, I havent seen anything to 
suggest the policy was unaffordable for her at the time it was taken. It could have been 
cancelled at any time without penalty if Miss Bs circumstances changed. So, taking 
everything into account, I dont think Santander was wrong to recommend the PPI to Miss B.
Its possible Santander didnt give Miss B all of the other information she needed. But for the 
same reasons as Ive explained above, I dont think this would have put her off taking the 
policy.
The mortgage was a big and long-term commitment, secured against Miss Bs home. And 
the repercussions of not keeping up with repayments could have been serious. So, I think 
the policy could have been useful to Miss B and I dont think she lost out because of 
anything Santander did wrong. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman