DRN-2218666
The complaint
Mrs and Mrs M complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA declined their claim against their 
travel insurance policy. Reference to IPA includes reference to its agents.
What happened
In November 2018, Mrs and Mrs M took out an annual, multi-trip travel insurance policy with 
IPA via an on-line comparison website. In October 2019, whilst on a trip to the USA, Mrs  M1 
had an allergic reaction and sought emergency hospital treatment. She made a claim 
against her travel insurance policy. 
IPA declined the claim. It said that Mrs M1 hadnt told it about her pre-existing condition of 
depression. IPA said that the policy isnt designed to provide any cover for anyone with pre-
existing medical conditions. It cancelled the policy from the outset and refunded the 
premium. 
Mrs M1 says that shes never been diagnosed with anything related to an allergic reaction 
before, so this was an unforeseen illness. She says that she had pre-existing anxiety and 
depression from 2016 and saw the doctor again about that in May 2017. Mrs M1 says that 
theres confusion about whether she needs to declare medical information from the previous 
five or two years. She wants IPA to contribute to her medical bill. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that IPA had asked a clear 
question about pre-existing medical conditions, Mrs M1 hadnt answered accurately, as 
shed previously had anxiety and depression. The investigator said that if Mrs M1 had 
answered accurately, IPA would have offered a policy with a higher premium. So, she 
thought that IPA should settle the claim on a proportionate basis. 
IPA didnt agree with the investigator. It said that the policy Mrs and Mrs M bought isnt 
designed for anyone with a pre-existing condition. IPA said that if Mrs M1 had answered 
accurately, it would have asked her further medical questions and offered a different policy 
at a higher premium. It said that Mrs and Mrs M bought a policy they werent eligible for. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the claim was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would 
have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
IPA thinks Mrs M1 failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
answered a question about pre-existing medical conditions on the price comparison website. 
IPA has provided a screen shot of the question Mrs M1 was asked which was as follows:
Does any person to be insured have a pre-  Yes No
existing medical condition?  
To ensure you have the right cover for you it is
important you tell us about your medical history.  If you do 
not declare medical conditions this could invalidate your 
policy. Examples include diabetes, high blood pressure, 
depression and respiratory conditions (including asthma)
you do not need to declare pregnancy as a medical condition.
Before you buy your insurance, please confirm that youve read this important information. 
You must tell your insurer about pre-existing medical conditions for everyone named on the 
policy  if you dont, your policy could be invalid.
I think that the question IPA asked was clear. I dont agree that the question was misleading 
about whether IPA wanted to know about the previous two or five years. I dont think Mrs M1 
answered correctly when she said that she didnt have a pre-existing condition. Its not in 
dispute that Mrs M1 saw her GP in May 2017 and earlier about anxiety and depression. 
Im satisfied that if IPA had known the true position, it wouldnt have sold Mrs and Mrs M the 
policy, as it isnt for anyone who has a pre-existing medical condition. It doesnt alter the 
outcome that Mrs M1s claim was for a condition she hadnt suffered from before. If           
Mrs and Mrs M had answered accurately, IPA would have given them a revised quote for a 
policy with a higher premium. So, this was a qualifying misrepresentation in terms of CIDRA. 
IPA is right to say that Mrs and Mrs M bought a policy that they werent eligible for. But thats 
not the end of the matter. I think that the misrepresentation here was careless, rather than 
deliberate or reckless. Ive seen no evidence that Mrs M1 knew the answer she gave was 
untrue or didnt care it was untrue. Ive looked at the actions IPA can take in accordance with 
CIDRA. Where the qualifying misrepresentation is careless and where the insurer would 
have still provided insurance but charged a higher premium, it may deal with the claim 
proportionately. I think thats a fair and reasonable outcome here. 
Mrs and Mrs M paid £36.73 for the cover but if IPA had known the true position, it would 
have charged them £52.78 for a different policy. So, they paid 69.59% of the premium they 
should have paid.   
Putting things right
Considering everything, I think that a fair and reasonable outcome is for IPA to deal with the 
claim against the policy it would have offered Mrs and Mrs M on a proportionate basis  that 
means it should deal with the claim under the terms of the policy it would have offered them 
and pay Mrs and Mrs M 69.59% of the settlement. It should also pay interest on this amount 
at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the date of the claim to the date it makes the 
payment. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires IPA to take off tax from this interest. IPA must give      
Mrs and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs and Mrs Ms complaint. I now require                        
Inter Partner Assistance SA to deal with the claim as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman