DRN-3837944
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc (CO) placed a fraud markers against 
her name.
What happened
Miss M says that she applied for a credit card with CO. After initially being accepted for 
this, the product was later withdrawn as CO believed the application was fraudulent and 
Miss M was being impersonated. CO also registered fraud prevention markers against 
Miss Ms name.
Miss M contacted CO and assured it that she was legitimately the person applying for 
the credit card. She supplied her driving licence and a residence permit as identification 
to support this.
CO reviewed the information presented but maintained its position on the application and 
the fraud markers placed.
Miss M contacted our service as she remained unhappy with COs decision. An 
Investigator reviewed the evidence provided by both parties but felt CO had made no 
error. Broadly, the Investigator concluded that there were sufficient risk factors that had 
been identified at
Miss Ms home address that meant the application was fair.
Miss M maintained unhappy with the opinion reached, so the matter was passed to me for 
a decision. 
After reviewing all the evidence provided by both parties, I issued a provisional decision on 
22 November 2022. This set out the following:
Jurisdiction
While our Investigator has addressed the merits of this complaint, and CO hasnt raised 
jurisdiction as an issue here, there are elements to this complaint that I feel appropriate 
to cover before discussing the merits of it.
CO has told our service that it doesnt believe Miss M is the genuine applicant of the credit 
card subject to this complaint. If our service were to agree with CO, then we wouldnt be 
able to look into this complaint. Broadly, thats because Miss M wouldnt be a customer or 
potential customer of CO. She would also not hold one of the relevant relationships 
required between a customer and a regulated financial business: as set out in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Handbook (DISP).
Having reviewed the evidence subject to this complaint, I see no reasons to believe Miss 
M didnt make the application. In summary:
The personal information provided in the application matches that provided to 
our service.
Miss M has further confirmed this by providing a photograph with her holding 
her genuine identification: again, matching that provided to CO.
When CO sent Miss M a letter to her home address asking her to get in touch, as 
it had doubts around the credit card application, Miss M called, confirmed she 
was not a victim of impersonation, that shed made the application and provided 
supporting evidence.
 CO has also presented a telephone call to our service that it deems to be suspicious 
as it thinks another person was making it. Having listened to the call, and on 
comparing it with other calls CO has provided, and those with our service, Im not 
persuaded it has reached a reasonable conclusion.
CO also appear to acknowledge some of these facts in numerous correspondences with 
both Miss M and our service but has at times maintained that it doesnt believe Miss M 
was the genuine applicant.
So, for clarity, Im persuaded that Miss M was the genuine applicant, and therefore that 
our service can look into her complaint.
Application of fraud markers
CO decided to load fraud markers against Miss Ms name regarding the application 
utilising a number of fraud prevention databases.
One of the markersloaded to the Cifas databasewas loaded as a victim of 
impersonation marker. This marker is designed to protect consumers that have fallen victim 
to identity fraud and alert other members to the details used in fraudulent applications.
Here, Miss M hasnt been impersonated. She has admitted to making the application, using 
her own details and without any malintent. Therefore, there was no need for the victim of 
impersonation marker to be loaded against her name. It had no value in protecting Miss M 
or alerting other members to the information used.
CO has presented evidence to our service that relates to separate applications in third-
party names and a potential risk to Miss Ms information security. But that isnt why it 
loaded the marker initially. And I also dont find it fair or reasonable that it maintains the 
marker on the basis of a potential risk where the marker specifically relates to a victim of 
impersonation.
Miss M has also provided our service with evidence that CO loaded a fraud marker against 
her name using the Synetics Solutions database, and has provided testimony that there is 
a further marker registered with National Hunter: both of which are fraud prevention 
databases.
For the same reasons Ive provided above, I find any adverse marker that has been 
placed against Miss Ms name that is visible to third-party businesses to be unfair in the 
circumstances.
Its clear that Miss M has applied for the credit card subject to this complaint and therefore 
CO had no reasonable basis to have recorded any fraud markers against her name. There 
is also no evidence to support Miss M provided any falsified information of evidence to 
support her application.
What CO should do to put things rightFor all the reasons Ive given above, CO should now go ahead and remove all fraud 
markers it has recorded against any database that are visible to third-party businesses and 
members, without delay.
I dont find CO has acted fairly here. It has admitted to loading the markers prior to giving 
Miss M a chance to respond to letters it sent highlighting its concerns. And I dont find, from 
the information provided so far, that CO had sufficient concerns to load a number of 
adverse markers against Miss Ms name.
While I realise the victim of impersonation marker is generally utilised to protect consumers, 
it wasnt necessary here. And this would have caused Miss M unnecessary inconvenience 
in extended security and identification processes.
It also contradicts the additional markers recorded against Miss Ms name where it 
appears to have treated her as a suspect in fraudulent activity. This caused Miss Ms 
accounts to close with third-party banks and denied her access to services such as a 
communications contract.
Miss M has also disclosed that she has suffered distress as a result of the marker. 
Understandably, she has expressed confusion and dismay at why this has even happened 
in the first place considering she was merely applying for a credit card and has now been 
accused of committing fraud and being impersonated.
This has clearly impacted Miss M and I find that £500 is a fair and reasonable payment to 
compensate Miss M for impact caused.
Both parties were provided until 6 December 2022 to respond with any further points 
before a final deision was made. As both parties have now responded prior to the deadline, 
Im now in a position to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have responded to my provisional findings stating that they agree with them and 
have no further points to add. 
Therefore, I dont intend to depart from the provisional findings reached. There are also no 
further points to address.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Capital One (Europe) plc 
to:
Remove all fraud markers it has placed against Miss Ms name that are visible to 
third-party businesses and members.
Pay Miss M £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Stephen WestlakeOmbudsman