DRN-3960516
The complaint
Mr I complains that technical issues with Plus500UK Ltd platform prevented him from closing 
his positions when he wanted and that his positions were unfairly closed based on margin 
equity when he received no notifications. He says this resulted in him making a loss.
What happened
Mr I held a contracts for difference (CFD) trading account with Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500) and 
had been trading with them since 2010 primarily in crude oil. He says he has had ongoing 
issues with the trading platform and has lost up to £12,000 in one month previously  though 
these have not been detailed or evidenced by him. He says on this particular occasion he 
tried to close his positions in crude oil but the platform froze and wouldnt let him sell his 
positions. He says Plus500 then closed his positions based on a margin call without notifying 
him which left him with losses of around £1580.
He also complains that Plus500 wouldnt allow him to be a professional client and hasnt 
received any bonus paid to him. To resolve his complaint, he wants his margin call to be 
cancelled with his losses refunded and a new margin call issued. He complained to Plus500 
in November 2022. 
In their final response letter in November 2022, Plus500 say Mr I was required to maintain 
his account margin at 50% which was the standard requirement to protect retail customers in 
accordance with the provisions of European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA). This 
is also noted in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS). They say he himself was responsible for maintaining the margin requirements and 
any open positions he had and when his account fell below the equity required, they 
correctly closed his positions.
They also say in compliance of regulatory obligations, they would not offer bonus or 
promotions to a retail customer. They say his elective professional client application was not 
approved because the documents he provided had been rejected and had given him the 
option to re-apply. Overall, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong and didnt uphold the 
complaint, so Mr I brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator proceeded to consider the merits of the complaint and say Plus500 had 
given Mr I margin call notifications and had correctly closed his positions where the account 
margin fell below the required level. She agreed with Plus500 and didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr I didnt agree with the investigators findings and so this has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I havent commented on every single point, Id like to assure Mr I that I have 
considered everything and summarised the key issues below. Having done so, I wont be 
upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
Elective professional account
Plus500 have confirmed the reason Mr Is application for his Elective Professional account 
was rejected was because he didnt provide sufficient documentation to verify he had met 
the necessary criteria. The firm is required to comply with the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook rule 3.5 and so they were correct to reject his application on this basis. This 
doesnt prevent him from making any further applications and Plus500 have confirmed they 
would consider any further application from him. 
Platform issues
Mr I complained that he wasnt able to sell his oil positions as the platform froze. I mean no 
discourtesy by saying this, but I have seen no evidence to support this. I have to make a 
decision based on the evidence presented to me and on balance what is most likely to have 
happened. Unfortunately, I havent been given any information or evidence to make a finding 
on this point. 
Margin calls
Mr I complained that Plus500 didnt give him notice when the margins calls were triggered. 
The evidence I have seen shows margin alerts were sent to Mr I. To be clear, whether they 
did or did not send these, they were not obligated to do so by any regulatory requirement nor 
under the terms of the account. The trading account is an execution only account and 
Section 31.2 of the terms and conditions of the account makes it clear that they are not 
obligated to monitor or advise him on the state of any transaction or to dispatch any Margin 
Call Alerts. It is clear, maintaining margins on these accounts remains the responsibility of 
the account holder. 
Plus500 provided Mr I with account statements which give a detailed breakdown of his 
positions showing what the maintenance requirements were and what the account equity 
was when the accounts were closed. There is clear evidence of the margin requirements not 
being maintained. Section 18.1 of the User Agreement details Mr Is undertaking to ensure 
that the amount in your Trading Account exceeds the Maintenance Margin. Ultimately, the 
responsibility to maintain the margins on his account remains with Mr I, so he should have 
ensured cleared funds were available in the account to manage these margins - which in 
turn would prevent the margin calls. 
ESMA, Rule 22.5.13 of the COBS rules, and Section 14.4 of Plus500s User Agreement all 
make reference to the minimum margin requirement of 50%. The minimum margin 
requirements were not met, and as soon as the account fell below the required amount, 
Plus500 closed any relevant positions to manage this. They were within their rights to do this 
and the terms and conditions of the account explain this. Given that Mr I had been trading 
with Plus500 for the length of time he had and has been in this position previously too, I think 
it is reasonable to expect that Mr I was aware of his obligations to maintain the account as 
well as Plus500s right to close any relevant positions to maintain the margin requirements. 
So, I think its fair to say that they havent done anything wrong here. 
I know Mr I will be disappointed with my decision, especially considering the losses hes 
suffered and the severe impact this has had on his health and financial situation. I have 
considered all the information hes provided me as well as Plus500. Overall, I havent seen 
anything that would suggest a breach of the terms of the agreement or the regulations and so I wont be asking them to do anything. If Mr I continues to have concerns around the way 
in which Plus500 operate, I would suggest he takes his complaint to the regulator, The 
Financial Conduct Authority. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Plus500UK Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman