DRN-3979432
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the level of customer service provided to them by 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited. They are unhappy with information given to them 
about the interest rate for their mortgage as they cant understand how the LIBOR rate is set 
and where it comes from. And theyve also said they feel victimised and discriminated 
against as they were unable to obtain new interest rates. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with Kensington in July 2007. The mortgage was set up 
on an interest only basis over a term of 25 years. They were aged 63 (Mr) and 61 (Mrs) at 
the time, and so would be 88 and 86 at the end of the term. The interest rate applicable at 
the time was a fixed rate of 6.69% for three years, After this, the interest rate changed to 
Kensingtons Standard Variable Rate (SVR). The SVR at the time was 7.00% plus a loading 
of 1.45% which meant the rate was 8.45%. When the fixed rate expired in 2010, the SVR 
which applied at the time was 4.85%. According to the terms and conditions, the SVR was a 
variable rate, but would always be at least 1% and not more than 3% above the LIBOR rate. 
In December 2017, Mr H called Kensington because he and Mrs H received a quarterly 
arrears statement. Kensington explained that this was sent in error. They also told Mr H that 
his monthly payment was due to increase, but Mr H said he hadnt been notified of this. Mr H 
says he spoke to a number of advisers that day and he was unhappy that Kensington were 
unable to answer his questions about why his mortgage payment was increasing and also 
where the LIBOR rate was set. Kensington acknowledged that Mr H was given inaccurate 
information on the first call and offered Mr and Mrs H compensation for £100 for how the call 
was handled.
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy with what Kensington had said so they brought their 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. She didnt think that the complaint should be upheld but Mr and Mrs H 
disagreed with this. They made a number of comments about the interest rate and said they 
were mortgage prisoners. Because they disagreed, they asked for the complaint to be 
looked at by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive taken into consideration everything that Mr and Mrs H have said and I know they 
feel very strongly about their complaint. They have provided additional comments in 
support of their views which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety. 
However, I trust that Mr and Mrs H will not take the fact that my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably 
less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point 
raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them.
Id firstly like to mention that Mr and Mrs H made a previous complaint to Kensington 
about how their interest rate was increasing, when the Bank of England Base Rate 
decreased. I can see that Kensington responded to this complaint in March 2011. 
They explained to Mr and Mrs H that the SVR they were on wasnt affected by the 
Bank of England Base Rate  because it didnt track it. I will not be commenting on 
that complaint any further. 
Customer service and interest rate
Looking at the current complaint and the concerns that Mr and Mrs H have about 
their rate, there is no doubt that some of the information that Mr H received on the 
telephone calls he had with Kensington was inaccurate. In addition to telling Mr and 
Mrs H that their account was in arrears, Kensington told them about a rate increase 
which they were not aware of. After some further questions from Mr H, Kensington 
informed Mr H that the changes to his interest rate were going to be effective from 
January 2018, which is why Mr and Mrs H hadnt been notified yet. I can appreciate 
that this would have been very frustrating for him especially as he still felt his 
questions around the interest rate had not been answered fully. However, taking 
everything into account, I think the £100 that Kensington have offered Mr and Mrs H 
for this is fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs H remain unhappy with the SVR and specifically how Kensington have 
calculated this. Ive looked at the terms and conditions which explain how the SVR is 
calculated. They say:
23 The Variable Rate
23.1 The Variable Rate is variable
23.2 We may vary the Variable Rate at any time in our absolute discretion 
whenever we want (including before any Advance is released), provided that 
the changed interest rate is never less than 1% or more than 3% above the 
LIBOR Rate
24 The LIBOR Rate
24.1 The LIBOR Rate is variable
24.2 The LIBOR Rate is a rate of interest equal to LIBOR, fixed not less often 
than quarterly either on or about the dates mentioned in any Offer or on such 
other dates as we may in our discretion from time to time notify you
LIBOR is defined in the terms as:
LIBOR means on any day the rate, detailed in (i) and (ii) below, rounded up 
to the next 0.05% at which sterling deposits are offered for a three-month 
period by prime banks in the London inter-bank market at 11am. 
The rate is:
(i)The rate which appears on the display designated as the British 
Bankers Associations Interest Settlement Rate on the Dow 
Jones/Telerate Monitor service as Telerate Screen No 3750 or such 
other page or service as may replace them; or
(ii) If no such display rate is then available, the mean of the rates 
notified by each Reference Bank
LIBOR is an interest rate based on the rate banks lend each other money at, so its a 
measure of the cost to Kensington of the funds they raised to lend Mr and Mrs H. 
Kensington raises funds on the money markets  which it has to pay for  and then 
lends them out to their mortgage customers. Thats why Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage 
interest rate is defined with reference to LIBOR, not the Bank of England Base Rate. There are various measures of LIBOR, and the terms explain which measure 
Kensington has chosen  the three month rate. The terms say the SVR rate can 
change but will never be more than 1% below or 3% above the LIBOR rate. In 
practice, Kensington have historically added 3% to LIBOR when setting their SVR. 
Mr and Mrs H say that when they originally took the mortgage out, there was no 
mention of LIBOR. The SVR is reviewed periodically in accordance with the LIBOR 
rate. Each time the LIBOR is reset, Mr and Mrs Hs monthly payment will be adjusted 
accordingly, if necessary, to keep it within the 1% and 3% bands. And it can also be 
changed at other times, as long as it stays within those boundaries. Ive taken a look 
at the mortgage offer and it doesnt specifically mention LIBOR. However, LIBOR is 
mentioned in the terms and conditions as is the Variable Rate (mentioned above). 
These conditions form part of the contract Mr and Mrs H agreed to and should be 
read in conjunction with their mortgage offer. I wouldnt expect the underlying method 
of calculating the SVR to be in the mortgage offer itself. The offer should explain that 
the rate is variable  and then the terms and conditions set out in more detail how it 
can be varied. This is common practice across the mortgage industry and is what has 
happened here. 
Mr and Mrs Hs current interest rate is 5.3%, this is made up of 0.85% which is the 
LIBOR Rate rounded up to the nearest 0.05%, plus 3% (which is detailed in the 
terms and conditions), plus 1.45% - the margin by which Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage 
offer says their interest rate will be above Kensingtons SVR. 
Ive taken a look at the history of how Mr and Mrs Hs SVR rate has changed over the 
past 10 years and I can see that the rate has fluctuated in line with how the LIBOR 
rate has acted. So taking everything into account, I cant say that an error has 
occurred with how the rate has been applied to the mortgage account and I cant say 
that the rate has been applied unfairly.
New interest rates
Mr and Mrs H wanted to secure a new rate with Kensington and feel discriminated 
against because they have been unable to do so. Theyve now said they feel like 
mortgage prisoners. There is no evidence that a formal application has been made 
for a new rate. But looking at the contact notes provided by Kensington, its evident 
that Mr and Mrs H wanted to apply for one.
Kensington have explained that they were able to accept applications for new 
products through a broker which would then be subject to their current lending 
criteria. They said this is because they think advice was necessary and because they 
didnt offer advice, this is what Mr and Mrs H would need to do.
But Mr and Mrs H only wanted to do a product switch and if Kensington were unable 
to offer advice to them, they could have offered them the option of execution only 
instead  where Mr and Mrs H could have seen what other products were available 
and chosen to switch their product if they wanted to. Advice wasnt needed and 
execution only rate switches would have been allowed under the rules of mortgage 
regulation.
A simple rate switch doesnt need any assessment of affordability or other lending 
criteria. And its not fair to apply new borrower age criteria to existing borrowers who 
arent extending their term and therefore not creating a new age risk that Kensington 
hasnt already accepted. Its clear from the contact notes that Mr and Mrs H were 
repeatedly raising concerns that they were paying too much. So based on this, I dont 
think that Kensington have been fair in how they have treated Mr and Mrs H as I think 
that new rates could have been offered. Kensington had rates available at this time, and publicly available information 
confirms as much. But Kensington didnt tell Mr and Mrs H about them, and if Mr and 
Mrs H had known and applied and then been rejected by Kensington without advice 
on criteria, that wouldnt have been fair. 
So having looked at the contact notes. I can see that Mr and Mrs H raised concerns 
in April 2015 about the rate they were on. Kensington knew they were unhappy with 
the rate and should have acted fairly and drawn their attention to new rates that they 
could have applied for. Had Kensington have asked, its likely that Mr and Mrs H 
would have selected a different rate. 
Having looked at the rates Kensington publicised at the time, Mr and Mrs H would 
have had a choice of either a two or a three-year fixed rate at a loan to value of 75%. 
Our investigator contacted Mr and Mrs H to find out, based on their circumstances at 
the time, what they might have chosen. Mr and Mrs H said that all they wanted was 
for Kensington to have reduced their interest rate. But as Ive already explained 
above, Kensington didnt have to do this by reducing the SVR. But it was clear that 
Mr and Mrs H wanted to change the interest rate they were on at the time  and I 
dont think all options were given to them by Kensington. 
Taking this into account, I think its only fair that Kensington should have given Mr 
and Mrs H the option of changing the interest rate on their mortgage, via execution 
only and for Mr and Mrs H to decide what rate they wanted to take out. 
So based on this, I think that Kensington should offer Mr and Mrs H a rate of 3.64%, 
which is the longest fixed rate that would have been available at the time. This rate 
should be backdated to April 2015. I think Kensington should also offer Mr and Mrs H 
£300 compensation for the trouble and upset they have been caused. 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint. Id like Kensington 
Mortgage Company Limited to give Mr and Mrs H a rate of 3.64% and backdate this 
to April 2015. The resulting overpayments Mr and Mrs H have made since then 
should either be used to reduce their mortgage balance or refunded to them with the 
additional of simple annual interest of 8% - and it will be for Mr and Mrs H to choose 
which. 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited should also give Mr and Mrs H £300 
compensation in total for the distress and inconvenience they have been caused. 
Developments
Mr and Mrs H responded to the provisional decision and accepted. Kensington however 
didnt agree. They made the following comments:
Kensington did not offer retention rates to any customers in 2015. They only started 
doing so in 2017  and then only to certain customers who met their criteria. Mr and 
Mrs H did not meet the criteria for new interest rates. 
The rate I had selected, a 3-year fixed rate of 3.64% available to new customers in 
2015, had a £999 completion fee and a reversion rate of LIBOR plus 4.10% and the 
price of 3.64% had these elements factored into them. If they were to switch Mr and 
Mrs H to this rate, these elements would apply. There may be some benefit for the 
three years from April 2015 to April 2018, but from then they would be applying a 
reversionary rate higher than Mr and Mrs H were currently on (current rate plus 3% 
LIBOR). So whilst there would have been overpayments made to their mortgage 
account from April 2015 to April 2018, there would have been underpayments from 
May 2018 onwards. So on that basis, Kensington cannot agree to that switch. 
If Kensington had retention rates available for customers in 2015, these would have been at the level of high street rates available at the time
Kensington do not have a regulatory obligation to offer product switches or retentions 
to existing customers
Kensington have to set their own risk appetite when considering both products and 
contract variations, and for that reason the retentions process criteria has been 
established which consider a number of factors. Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage has been 
securitised, which means they cannot make changes to it. To change the rate. 
Kensington would need to buy the loan from the existing securitisation vehicle, create 
a new rate which is being proposed, as none of their current securitisation vehicles 
allow customers to commence a new loan over the age of 70. Kensington can 
exempt a number of elements of underwriting when doing like for like mortgages 
under regulation and the securitisation arrangements. But the age of the applicant is 
one area they are unable to do this under as their securitisation arrangements, 
unless Mr and Mrs H would potentially qualify for the later life product. The cost of the 
fixed rate proposed is disproportionate to the activity that would need to be carried 
out. 
Mr and Mrs H are free to remortgage to another lender at any time if theyre not 
happy with their existing mortgage.
Over the last few years, discussions have taken place with relevant parties to 
implement a retentions process within Kensington and this was launched in 
2017.Due to market conditions and the contracts entered into prior to January 2010, 
accounts that completed before 31 December 2009 are not included within this 
process
My second provisional decision
I then issued a second provisional decision setting out my thoughts. I said:
Kensington have explained in detail why they were unable to offer any new rates to 
Mr and Mrs H and why they are not able to apply the rate of 3.64% from 2015 as 
previously suggested. Ive considered the points they have made above and will 
explain why I still dont think they have treated Mr and Mrs H fairly  though taking 
into account what Kensington has said, I have changed my mind about how it needs 
to put matters right. 
I originally said in my provisional decision that it was clear that Mr and Mrs H wanted 
a new rate and the earliest I could see that they queried this was from April 2015  
but as its now been established  Kensington didnt offer rates to any of their 
customers at this time. 
Now its been confirmed that Kensington didnt offer any new rates to any existing 
customers pre-2017, this means Mr and Mrs H were not treated unfairly compared to 
any other existing customers. So there was no less favourable treatment towards 
them.
There was no obligation for Kensington to offer new interest rates to Mr and Mrs H 
and there was nothing in the mortgage offer that showed they were entitled to one 
either  so the mortgage was operating as it should have been. So I dont think 
Kensington were unfair by not offering rates to Mr and Mrs H prior to 2017 because it 
was the same for all of their customers. Mr and Mrs H were in the same position as 
all other Kensington customers.
In 2017, though, Kensington decided to offer new rates to some customers. And 
where a lender decides to offer rates to their customers, they need to do so fairly. Its 
reasonable to have eligibility criteria to decide which rates are available to which 
customers  and even that some customers are not eligible at all. But in making such decisions, Kensington need to act fairly. So I now need to think about whether it was 
fair to continue to refuse rates to Mr and Mrs H once Kensington started to offer rates 
to other customers from 2017 onwards. 
Once Kensington decided to offer new rates, there is still no obligation for them to 
proactively offer them to their customers or contact their customers to invite them to 
apply. I can see that the first time Mr and Mrs H asked Kensington about a new rate 
once they became available was in December 2017, so I need to look at what 
happened at that point and whether Mr and Mrs H were treated fairly.
In December 2017, Mr H contacted Kensington with a number of queries as to why 
his mortgage payments were increasing and it was still evident at this point that Mr 
and Mrs H were unhappy with the interest rate they were on. This is the first time 
after Kensington started to offer rates that Mr and Mrs H showed their dissatisfaction 
with the rate they were on, and they were unhappy that it was increasing. But 
Kensington told Mr and Mrs H that there were no rates available to them.  
Kensingtons policy on rate switches
Before 2017, Kensington didnt offer new interest rates to their existing customers. 
An existing customer whose rate had expired and wanted a new rate would either 
have to remortgage or apply to Kensington as a new customer for a new mortgage. 
Kensington have given us detailed information about their policy on rate switches. 
From 2017, Kensington did begin to offer new interest rates to some of their existing 
customers, but they have explained that their criteria for doing so is as follows:
At the point at which the mortgage was taken out, the customer would have 
passed the affordability and regulatory requirements in place now;
The customers credit risk is in line with Kensingtons current credit risk 
appetite;
There is no history of arrears on the mortgage;
The original mortgage lending was by Kensington  not another lender with 
the mortgage later moving to Kensington;
The mortgage was taken out no earlier than 1 January 2010.
Kensington has explained that their business model relies on securitisation. This is a 
relatively common model in the mortgage industry. In essence, once they lent on a 
mortgage and were entitled to receive the repayments, Kensington sells the 
beneficial interest (the benefit of the repayments) to a third party in order to fund 
further lending to other customers. Loans are not securitised individually but 
packaged into groups called special purpose vehicles. 
Under this model, Kensington remains the owner of the mortgage and remains the 
lender of record and continues to be the firm that the borrower deals with. But once 
they have collected the payments, they pass the benefit of them to the investor which 
bought the vehicle including the loan.
Kensington has explained that under the terms of their agreement with the investors 
which bought the securitisation vehicles, they cannot make changes to existing 
mortgages  such as offering new interest rates. They may be able to offer new rates 
when securitisations expire and are re-financed onto terms that allow variations to 
mortgages. 
They may be able to offer a new rate if a loan meets the current criteria that investors 
will accept as part of a securitisation vehicle  which explains the criteria around 
passing current requirements even on loans that were taken out some time ago. 
They can offer a rate if they can extract a loan from a securitisation and then re-securitise it with a new interest rate  but only if the loan would be acceptable to a 
new securitisation vehicle. Loans taken out before 2010, and loans taken out which, 
at the time, didnt meet regulatory requirements now in place, do not meet that 
standard. 
Such customers include those whose loans were underwritten based on the 
standards which applied before the financial crisis of 2007/8  including customers 
who self-certified their income, who didnt have to show that they had a repayment 
strategy for an interest only mortgage, and so on.
Because these customers cannot be re-securitised, they are not eligible for new 
interest rate. And because Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage was taken out before 2010 and 
is on interest only terms, it falls into this category. 
Regulatory considerations
When deciding whether Kensington treated Mr and Mrs H fairly and reasonably in all 
the circumstances, I also need to take into account the regulators rules and 
guidance, to be found in MCOB section of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook. 
What is important to this particular case are the provisions to be found in section 11 
of MCOB, especially 11.8.1E. The suffix E denotes an evidential provision not a rule 
 which would be suffixed R.
MCOB 11.8.1 E says:
Where a customer is unable to:
(1) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan or 
vary the terms of an existing regulated mortgage contract or home 
purchase plan with the existing mortgage lender or home purchase 
provider; or
(2) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan with 
a new mortgage lender or home purchase provider;
the existing mortgage lender or home purchase provider should not (for 
example, by offering less favourable interest rates or other terms) take 
advantage of the customers situation or treat the customer any less 
favourably than it would treat other customers with similar characteristics.  
To do so may be relied on as tending to show contravention of Principle 6 
(customers interests).
Principle 6 says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly. 
As I mentioned above, MCOB 11.8.1 E is an evidential provision and not a rule. But it 
says that treatment of the kind set out in the provision may tend to show unfairness. 
In some situations it may not show unfairness, and this will depend on individual 
circumstances. 
I understand that Kensington considers the circumstances in which the mortgage 
was taken out to be relevant to their business model of securitisation, but I dont think 
that means they treated Mr and Mrs H fairly in their particular circumstances. 
Kensington explained that as an alternative to a rate switch (which is what Mr and 
Mrs H wanted to do), Mr and Mrs H could have applied via a broker for a new 
mortgage with Kensington to replace this one. Therefore Mr and Mrs H would have to 
pass full new borrower lending criteria, which includes an affordability assessment 
and an assessment of interest only repayment strategy in order to do this. Mr and Mrs H said they were unable to remortgage to another lender because of 
their age and they deemed themselves to be mortgage prisoners. They felt they had 
no choice but to remain with Kensington, and they also felt they were treated less 
favourably than other customers who were in a similar position to them. Ive 
considered what they say about this. Im aware from my knowledge of the mortgage 
industry that its much harder to get interest only mortgages now than it was when Mr 
and Mrs H took this loan out in 2007. Given their ages, the term of any replacement 
repayment mortgage would likely mean their monthly payments would be much 
higher. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances mean that, in practice, theyre 
unable to move their mortgage to another lender and must remain with Kensington. 
And, for the same reasons, they would not pass Kensingtons assessment for a re-
mortgage either.  
Mr and Mrs H made it clear they were unhappy with the interest rate they were on 
and did so in December 2017. And by December 2017, Kensington were offering 
rates to some existing customers who met their eligibility criteria. But Mr and Mrs H 
didnt meet the criteria, so they were not able to obtain a new rate via this route.  
Kensington didnt consider them eligible for a new interest rate because of how their 
mortgage had originated. So what I have to consider is whether the fact that 
Kensington were offering rates to some of their customers but not Mr and Mrs H was 
fair. 
Kensington has explained that Mr and Mrs H were not eligible for a new rate, under 
their eligibility criteria, because their mortgage was taken out before 2010, when 
lending standards were very different to what they are today. As a result of this, Mr 
and Mrs Hs mortgage no longer meets Kensingtons current risk appetite because of 
the difficulties in re-securitising based on their current investor risk appetite. But Im 
not persuaded that its fair for Kensington to refuse Mr and Mrs H a new rate in 2017, 
because their mortgage was taken out ten years before. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt have a history of arrears at the time of their application. Mr and 
Mrs H didnt make a formal application in December 2017 so there was no credit risk 
assessment made. But Mr and Mrs H only wanted to do a rate switch and even if 
they had to be assessed, I havent seen anything that suggests Mr and Mrs H 
wouldnt have passed it. Their mortgage was not in arrears and from what I have 
seen, hasnt been in arrears historically so Ive no current basis for concluding that 
they would have failed any credit check that was carried out. Im therefore satisfied 
that they would have passed the part of Kensingtons criteria that relates to their 
mortgage at the time of the application.
However, they didnt meet the criteria relating to the history of the mortgage  in 
particular, relating to the circumstances in which it was taken out ten years earlier. 
Ive taken into account what Kensington says about this. But Im not persuaded this 
was a fair basis for refusing a new rate to Mr and Mrs H. I dont think their 
circumstances, or the way in which their mortgage was granted, ten years earlier 
were relevant to their situation at the time of the application. 
MCOB 11.8.1 E refers to the treatment of borrowers with similar characteristics. Im 
satisfied that, in December 2017, Mr and Mrs H had similar characteristics to other 
customers to whom Kensington would have offered a rate. I accept that underwriting 
and regulatory standards were different before 2010. But the fact is that Kensington 
was, at the time, prepared to lend to Mr and Mrs H, I dont think its fair for 
Kensington to decide that because it now takes a different view of their 
circumstances as they were at the time, it will no longer treat them as favourably as 
other customers. Its, in part, because of those circumstances that Mr and Mrs H are 
unable to move to another lender, and come within the scope of MCOB 11.8.1 E. 
Once they are Kensington customers, I think fairness under that provision requires that they not be treated less favourably than other customers to whom they are at 
that time similar when they cant move elsewhere and have to remain with 
Kensington however it treats them. I think whats relevant for the purposes of 11.8.1 
E is Mr and Mrs Hs characteristics at the time they asked for another interest rate  
and not their characteristics as they might have been ten years earlier when they 
took their mortgage out. 
Kensington says that the reason for their rate switch criteria is that they securitised 
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage. the terms of the securitisation agreement limit what they 
can offer Mr and Mrs H  they cannot vary the terms of a mortgage while its 
securitised and cannot re-securitise the mortgage of a customer which doesnt meet 
the risk appetite of their investors. 
I have taken that into account. And I understand that securitisation is a recognised 
and relatively common business model within the mortgage market  and not 
inherently unfair. 
However, Im not persuaded that this explanation as to why Kensington considers Mr 
and Mrs H ineligible for a new rate changes my conclusion that they were not treated 
fairly when Kensington refused to consider a new rate for them. 
MCOB 11.8.1 E refers to customers of a firm. In my opinion, that makes it clear that 
the comparison envisaged is to be done across all customers of the firm, in this case 
Kensington  and not sub-sets of those customers (subject to them having similar 
characteristics). Whether or not their loan has been securitised, Kensington remained 
Mr and Mrs Hs lender and they remained the firm which owed them obligations of 
fair treatment  including treatment of the sort envisaged in MCOB 11.8.1 E.
Mr and Mrs H wanted a new interest rate in December 2017 where they were told 
that one wasnt available to them. But as Ive found, Kensington did have rates 
available to other customers who had, at that time, similar characteristics to Mr and 
Mrs H.  Ive also found they were unable to remortgage to another lender so had no 
choice but to stay with Kensington. In those circumstances, MCOB 11.8.1 E is 
relevant to their situation. And in refusing them a rate that they would have offered to 
other customers with similar characteristics to them at the time of their application, I 
dont think Kensington treated them fairly. 
I think, acting fairly, Kensington should have looked into Mr and Ms Hs situation at 
the time and understood that they didnt have any other options and that refusing 
them a new interest rate has left them in a less favourable position than other 
customers, at the time with similar characteristics. Had it done so, I think they would, 
acting fairly, have offered them a rate no less favourable than that offered to those 
other similar customers.
Putting things right
Kensington should put Mr and Mrs H back in the position they would have been in 
had they offered them a new interest rate in December 2017. Had Kensington acted 
at this time, when Mr and Mrs H were clearly unhappy with the rate they were on, a 
new rate could have been arranged for them. Kensington should therefore re-work 
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage as if a new interest rate had been in place since December 
2017. 
When Kensington respond to my provisional decision, they should provide me with a 
list of the rates they had available to existing customers taking a new interest rate in 
December 2017 and should explain which of those rates they believe Mr and Mrs Hs 
loan to value qualified them for at that time. I will then select an appropriate rate from 
that list as I did before. On the assumption that Kensington offered two-, three- or five-year fixed rates to 
existing customers  as is standard  any of these fixed rate periods would have now 
expired. So Mr and Mrs H would have been eligible for a new rate which would follow 
on from the previous one (from December 2017). Therefore, Kensington should also 
provide me with a list of available rates from 2019, 2020 and 2022 again identifying 
which loan to value band they believe Mr and Mrs H would have fallen into. And 
Kensington will need to ensure that any future application on the expiry of those rates 
is treated fairly.
Kensington will need to re-work Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage, taking into account the 
rates I tell them to put in place in due course. This will result in Mr and Mrs H making 
overpayments in the months from January 2018.
It will then be up to Mr and Mrs H to decide if they would like those overpayments to 
be used to reduce their mortgage balance, or if they would like those payments 
refunded back to them. 
I also said in my previous provisional decision that Kensington should pay Mr and 
Mrs H £300 for the distress and inconvenience this caused them. Kensington had 
already agreed to offer Mr and Mrs H £100 for the incorrect information given to them 
on the telephone  which is fair. However, overall this caused Mr and Mrs H 
considerable upset so I think that Kensington should pay Mr and Mrs H an additional 
£300 to the £100 they previously offered.
Developments
Mr and Mrs H responded to my second provisional decision and accepted what I had said. 
Kensington disagreed. They made the following comments:
With regards to the Evidential Provision of MCOB 11.8.1E, Kensington do not believe 
that it is appropriate to make these transitional arrangements compulsory. They said 
its for lenders to make lending decisions, and there may be sound reasons for not 
proceeding with individual transactions.
The provision refers to similar characteristics and when reviewing customers for 
either retention products or products under the mortgage prisoner initiative, 
customers are considered under certain criteria. Relevant criteria include LTV 
assessments, repayment type, funding requirements etc. and any retention rates will 
apply against assessment of that criteria. 
Mortgages within a securitisation model will need to meet a set of criteria meaning 
this group of customers with similar characteristics. They said the Financial 
Ombudsman Service hasnt defined what we deem similar characteristics to be.
At the time, Kensington could only offer retention rate, within their established risk 
appetite to customers with the following characteristics:
- The account must have completed after 1 January 2010
- Only regulated mortgage contracts and buy to let loans are allowed a 
product switch (with exclusions for right to buy and help to buy)
- No payment arrears greater than 1 x monthly payment since origination
- No current other amounts outstanding (fees and charges)
- No previous bankruptcy or IVA
- All monthly payments must be paid in full between application and 
completion of the product switchKensington said that all customers with those characteristics would be offered a retention 
rate so by definition, they have treated customers with the same characteristics in the same 
way. Kensington said Mr and Mrs H didnt meet those requirements and no steps were taken 
by Mr and Mrs H to remortgage. 
Kensington said the loan was scheduled to be reviewed for a mortgage prisoner product in 
October 2021 when its current securitsation ended but Mr and Mrs H redeemed the loan in 
July 2021 prior to this review. 
Kensington said they cannot pick and choose when to comply with the regulations and they 
have significant concerns regarding our proposed action. They said the conclusions we have 
reached are not logical and are inconsistent with the factors set out in DISP3.6.4R.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive taken into account  as required by our rules  relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where appropriate what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. But while I take those 
matters into account, ultimately, I am deciding what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all 
circumstances. 
Ive set out in detail in my provisional decision why I think this complaint should be upheld. 
Having thought very carefully about the arguments that Kensington have made, I havent 
changed my mind and I still dont believe they have treated Mr and Mrs H fairly. 
Kensington have pointed to PS12/16. The passage it cited comes in a section dealing with 
regulators assessment of the responses to their introduction of new rules. The passage 
Kensington quoted says:
We do not believe it is appropriate to make these transitional arrangements 
compulsory. Ultimately, it is for lenders to make lending decisions, and there may be 
sound reasons for not proceeding with individual transactions.
Kensington says this means that MCOB 11.8.1 E is not compulsory. But placed in its wider 
context, I dont think that is what the relevant passage says. 
This section refers to the transitional arrangements. The transitional arrangements are to 
be found in MCOB 11.7, not MCOB 11.8.1. That is the chapter title of MCOB 11.7.
The full section says:
The changes we are making to the application of the affordably requirements for 
contract variations, as set out in Chapter 2, along with the revised transitional 
arrangements, will make it easier for lenders to help existing borrowers. 
We will continue to expect lenders to treat their customers fairly, in according with 
Principle 6 (treating customers fairly). In response to feedback, we are 
strengthening the protection for existing borrowers, by changing the guidance to an 
evidential provision (MCOB 11.8.1E). Under this provision, if the existing lender takes 
advantage of a trapped borrower or treats them any less favourably than other 
customers with similar characteristics  for example, by offering less favourable 
interest rates or other terms  then this may be relied on as tending to show 
contravention of Principle 6. 
As we explain further in the introduction, we are implementing this provision with 
immediate effect. We do not believe that it is appropriate to make these transitional arrangements 
compulsory. Ultimately, it is for lenders to make lending decisions, and there may be 
sound reasons for not proceeding with individual transactions.
In context, this passage is responding to concerns expressed in the consultation that making 
11.7 non-compulsory might lead to consumer detriment for borrowers who are unable to 
switch from their existing lender. The regulator responded to this by stating that a 
strengthened 11.8.1 will nevertheless create an expectation of fair treatment. 
I dont therefore think that this passage says what Kensington says it does, or that it means 
that Kensington are not required to take into account MCOB 11.8.1 E. I think the regulators 
intention is that a lender should have regard for MCOB 11.8.1 E in dealing with customers 
unable to move elsewhere, and that treatment of the kind outlined in the provision may tend 
to show unfairness  as indeed the provision itself says. It is therefore a relevant 
consideration for me to take into account in this case. I dont agree with Kensington that 
MCOB 11.8.1 E is not something Kensington had to have regard to in thinking about whether 
a decision to offer Mr and Mrs H another interest rate was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. In my view, its a relevant matter and something that Kensington ought to 
have considered. 
In my provisional decision I explained that Mr and Mrs H felt they were mortgage prisoners 
because they were not offered a new interest rate and they felt they were unable to 
remortgage to another lender because of their age. 
Mr and Mrs H were not able to get a new interest rate with Kensington because of when their 
mortgage was taken out  other than that, they met all Kensingtons product switch criteria.
In those circumstances, I think its a reasonable conclusion that, with the exception of when 
the mortgage was taken out, Mr and Mrs H shared similar characteristics to a borrower who 
did meet Kensingtons product switch criteria. I dont think its in dispute that it was only the 
date of origin of their mortgage which meant they didnt meet the product switch criteria. 
The application of the date of origin criterion was the reason Mr and Mrs H were not able to 
obtain a new interest rate. It was the reason they were on less favourable rates compared to 
borrowers who  as Mr and Mrs H also did  met the remaining criteria. 
So what needs to be considered is whether the date of origin is a relevant matter which 
needs to be taken into account to determine whether Mr and Mrs H had similar 
characteristics to borrowers who would be offered a rate or not. 
I already explained in my provisional decision that the circumstances, in my view, in which a 
mortgage was taken out many years before are not relevant. There are many things that can 
change in the meantime and whats relevant here, are Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances - their 
characteristics  at the time they wanted a new interest rate and not their circumstances as 
they were many years ago. Having considered what Kensington has said in reply to my 
provisional decision, I havent changed my mind about that. 
I also dont think the fact that Kensington has chosen to securitise Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage, 
or do so on particular terms, is relevant. Kensington are entitled to operate their business in 
that way but their legitimate decision to operate their model in a particular way may, in 
certain circumstances, produce an unfair result in the particular circumstances of an 
individual customer. 
And for the same reasons, I dont think Kensingtons obligations are a relevant matter that I 
need to consider as I recognise those obligations. However, what I am concerned about is 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Its a matter for 
Kensington to find a way to manage both their prudential obligations and their obligations of 
fairness to Mr and Mrs H. I am therefore satisfied that it wasnt fair of Kensington to not offer Mr and Mrs H a new 
interest rate based on when the mortgage was taken out. And putting that to one side, Mr 
and Mrs H passed Kensingtons eligibility criteria in that they had similar characteristics to 
borrowers who would have been offered a product switch. As Kensington didnt offer Mr and 
Mrs H a product switch, they havent treated them fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
I asked Kensington to provide me with a list of interest rates that would have been available 
to Mr and Mrs H from December 2017  along with what their loan to value was at that time. 
I also asked for a list of interest rates which would follow on from the expiry of the rate in 
2017  so that I could consider what rate Kensington should have offered Mr and Mrs H. 
Based on what I have said in my provisional decisions and above, I find that Kensington 
should have offered Mr and Mrs H a new interest rate so I have considered what rate 
Kensington should have offered Mr and Mrs H. 
Kensington should put Mr and Mrs H back in the position they would have been in had they 
offered them a new interest rate in December 2017. Had Kensington acted at this time, when 
Mr and Mrs H were clearly unhappy with the rate they were on, a new rate could have been 
arranged for them. And when this rate would have expired, Kensington should have 
continued to offer new interest rates to Mr and Mrs H. Kensington should therefore re-work 
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage as if a new interest rate had been in place since December 2017. 
Mr and Mrs H have told us that they redeemed their mortgage with Kensington in July 2021. 
So Kensington will need to re-work the mortgage based on what they should have offered Mr 
and Mrs H  and refund this amount back to them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited as follows:
Kensington should re-calculate Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage as if the following rates had 
applied:
- 2.59% fixed from December 2017 until December 2019
- 3.64% fixed from January 2020 until redemption of the mortgage in 
July 2021
Pay Mr and Mrs H £300 compensation in addition to the £100 previously offered
In each case, Kensington should treat the amounts that Mr and Mrs H paid above the 
revised monthly payments as overpayments. This would mean Mr and Mrs H would have 
paid a lower redemption figure when they redeemed the mortgage in July 2021. Kensington 
should refund the difference between the two redemption figures along with 8% simple 
annual interest running from the date of redemption to date of refund.
If payment to Mr and Mrs H includes an 8% interest element, Kensington may deduct 
income tax from the 8% interest element as required by HMRC. But they should tell Mr and 
Mrs H what they have deducted so they can claim it back from HMRC if they are entitled to 
do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 Maria Drury
Ombudsman