DRN-3603802
The complaint
Ms O has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a fee-paying Advance  
account (previously known as a Plus account) in February 2007. Ms O later downgraded the 
account to a fee-free account around November 2012.
Ms O has given several reasons why she says that the account was mis-sold. These include 
that it was sold to her by a pushy salesperson, and it was presented as a good deal. But Ms 
O says the product wasnt fully explained to her, nor was she told about the full cost. 
Ms O also says she wasnt told she wouldnt be eligible for one or more of the insurance 
policies. For example, Ms O says her car was too old to quality for the breakdown cover and 
she already had life cover in place. Ms O says she was told she had to get the account in 
order to take out an overdraft. And Ms O says she always used an overdraft and says she 
was told she wouldnt be eligible for a fee-free account and had to get a fee-paying account.
What happened
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and they didnt think the account had been mis-
sold.
Ms O disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I think it may also help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, as is the case here, I need to decide what I 
think most likely happened, based on everything that is available. And having considered 
everything, Im unable to say that the Advance account was mis-sold.
Ms O says that she had to take out the account to take out an overdraft. However, HSBC 
has provided information to show that Ms O already had an overdraft on a fee-free account 
when she was sold the account. So I dont think its likely that Ms O was told that she 
needed to upgrade to obtain an overdraft. On the contrary, as Ms O had a fee-free account 
for many years with HSBC and had an arranged overdraft in place on her account prior to 
the sale of the Advance account, I think its likely that Ms O was generally aware that she 
didnt have to have the Advance account and that fee-free alternatives were available to her. 
As such, I think Ms O was in all likelihood given a fair choice when the account was sold to 
her.
HSBC says that the account was sold on a non-advised basis. Whereas Ms O says that the 
account was sold on an advised basis and says that the person she spoke to was quite 
pushy. Based on what I know about HSBCs sales processes at the time, I think it was more 
likely sold on a non-advised basis. But even if I concluded that it had been sold in an advised 
manner, overall the recommendation looks to have been reasonable. 
I say this because at the time the account cost £12.95 per month and in return the main 
insurance product it provided was worldwide travel insurance. It also provided preferential 
interest rates on savings accounts, overdrafts, loans and it also provided a 10% refund of 
interest applied to credit cards  amongst a number of other benefits.
Shortly after the sale, it seems that Ms O travelled abroad, so it appears that the travel 
insurance mayve been useful for her. And I can see that Ms O regularly used her overdraft, 
received the 10% refund of interest on her credit card and had a flexible saver account that 
benefited from a higher rate of interest. And although Ms O says that she didnt need the 
breakdown cover or life cover provided by the account, these benefits were only added to 
the account later  so were not relevant to the account when it was sold in February 2007. 
So taking all of this into account, it looks like the Advance account was a reasonable fit for 
Ms Os circumstances in February 2007.
When selling the account to Ms O, HSBC had to provide Ms O with the important information 
about the account, so she understood what she was agreeing to. Ms O says she wasnt told 
about the full cost of the account. However, I think its likely that at the very least, the 
monthly cost and the main features of the account wouldve been mentioned during the sale. 
After all, I think it would be very difficult to sell a packaged account to someone without 
mentioning at least some of the features of the account. And the sales processes that HSBC 
had in place do suggest the cost and key features of the account wouldve been discussed 
with Ms O. And I understand this information (alongside the initial 12 month minimum term 
requirement) wouldve also been set out in the post-sale documentation sent to Ms O as 
well.
Due to how long ago the sale took place and the limited evidence that is available, I cant be 
sure that HSBC gave Ms O all of the information it shouldve done during the sale. But 
equally, Ive not seen anything that makes me think that Ms O wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to it, had she been given even more information about the account. For example, it 
looks like she was eligible for the travel insurance and was able to benefit from the various 
banking benefits too.
Overall, whilst Ms O says the member of staff was pushy, Ive not seen enough evidence to 
be able to conclude that its likely that HSBC did act unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms O. 
On the contrary, from everything I have seen, I think its just as likely that Ms O was given 
information about the Advance account, and she agreed (perhaps after being persuaded by 
HSBC) to upgrade her account as she was interested in the benefits that it provided at the 
time.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, Ms O may now regret agreeing to the account 
and she may now think that it was poor value for money. But neither of those things mean 
that it was mis-sold. And based on everything I have seen, Im unable to say that HSBC did 
mis-sell the account to Ms O.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 Thomas White
Ombudsman