DRN-2008880
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is that he received a statement after his credit card account with Vanquis 
Bank Limited was closed. He wants compensation for the stress this caused him.
What happened
Mr F contacted Vanquis on 17 March and asked to close his credit card account. He was 
told that a closure block would be added to his account and that although the statement 
balance was £0 there was some interest on the account which would show when his next 
statement was generated and that this would need to be paid for the account to close.
Mr F was sent an account closure letter dated 18 March. He paid the outstanding interest but 
says he then received a statement through the post in April 2020 which he wasnt expecting. 
He said this caused him stress.
Mr F also said that although the account should have been closed it was showing on his 
mobile banking app with a credit limit of £150.
Vanquis said that Mr F was given the correct information when he called to close his account 
in March 2020. It said he received his statement online and a statement was generated on 
22 March confirming a small amount due for cash interest. This was paid on 23 March. 
Vanquis said that Mr F then contacted it on 27 March and was told his account was pending 
closure and once the final statement was provided in April 2020 the account would be 
closed. On 22 April the final statement was produced and sent to Mr F. It said the statements 
were produced correctly and confirmed that Mr Fs account had been closed and no further 
statements would be sent. 
Regarding the banking app, Vanquis said that this isnt blocked straight away after a closure 
block is added to an account. It allows customers to see the last two statements and that the 
balance is £0 before its fully closed.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that Vanquis had explained the need to 
provide the April statement and confirmed that the account had been closed. He noted the 
comments about the mobile banking app and said that if Mr F wished to make a complaint 
about this, he would need to raise it separately. 
Mr F didnt accept our investigators view. He said he suffers with severe anxiety and 
receiving the statement had a negative impact on his health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F wanted to close his account and he contacted Vanquis about this. On the call in March 
2020, it was explained to him that although there was a zero balance on his account, due to 
a cash transaction there was likely to be a small amount of interest showing on the next 
statement which would need to be paid for the account to close. The account closure was 
added to Mr Fs account at this time and the March statement generated shortly afterwards 
with a small amount owing. Mr F paid this on 23 March.
Mr Fs complaint is that he then received a statement in the post in April 2020 which caused 
him anxiety. 
I understand Mr Fs comments that he wasnt expecting this statement. On the call on 27 
March he was told his account was pending closure and that on the next statement date 
(April 2020) the account would close. Therefore, Mr F should have been aware that a final 
statement would be generated. Vanquis has also explained that it needs to send the final 
statement and that as there was activity on Mr Fs account after the previous statement was 
generated (that is Mr F paying the amount due) a further statement will be generated to 
show the final zero balance. Given this information and the movements on Mr Fs account I 
do not find that Vanquis did anything wrong by generating the April statement. 
Mr F received his statements online however the final statement was sent by post. Vanquis 
has explained that as Mr F had requested his account to be closed it was set as pending at 
which point all statements revert to being posted in line with its standard process. 
Overall, I do not find that Vanquis did anything wrong by generating the April statement. It 
followed its usual account closure process for Mr F and provided him with the information he 
needed about this. So, while I understand this has been distressing for Mr F, I do not find 
that Vanquis has done anything wrong regarding the statements it provided.
Mr F has said that his mobile banking app is still showing as having an available balance. As 
our investigator has explained, this wasnt part of Mr Fs complaint that was investigated by 
Vanquis and so if he is concerned about an issue with his mobile banking app, he will need 
to raise this as a separate complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman