DRN-1426655
 
The complaint
 Ms Ms complaint is about the quality of a car she has been financing through a finance 
agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS). 
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms M acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase 
agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is 
able to look into complaints about it;  
The relevant legislation says that BMWFS are responsible for the quality of the car at 
the point it is supplied. But theyre not responsible for faults that develop 
subsequently. The fault with the daytime running lights remaining on didnt happen 
until Ms M had been in possession of the car for about a year. I think Ms M would 
have experienced some problems before then if it was a fault that was developing at 
the point of supply;
BMWFS have one opportunity to repair faults that are present at the point of supply. I 
think the tyre pressure issue was most likely to be present at that point but BMWFS 
have now repaired that and Im not persuaded there were any other faults present, or 
developing, at the point of supply that theyve failed to repair. I think the daytime 
running light problem is most probably one that developed at a later point;
I can see Ms M has also mentioned problems with the radio and on board computer. 
These faults appear to have occurred in March 2019. But again I think its unlikely 
these faults were present or developing at the point the car was supplied to Ms M. 
Shes suggested the problems happened after an MOT was completed so it would 
seem that any complaint she may have about these faults should be reported to the 
company who completed the MOT. But thats not BMWFS so it would not be fair to 
hold them responsible.
 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman