The complaint
Ms C says she was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by Bank 
of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax. 
What happened
In 1993, Halifax sold Ms C a monthly premium PPI policy to protect her mortgage 
repayments if she was unable to work because of disability or unemployment. Its unclear 
how the policy came to be added.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicator, 
so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available from 1993, which isnt surprising given 
how long ago that was. So Ive reached my decision on the balance of the remaining 
evidence, including what Ms Cs said about not being aware the PPI had been added. 
While theres nothing to conclusively show Ms C was told the PPI was optional or that she 
agreed to it, theres also nothing to show that didnt happen either. So I cant fairly say that 
Halifax did anything wrong here.         
I realise that Ms C will be frustrated by that finding but, overall, Im not satisfied that it would 
be fair to uphold the complaint on this basis.
Halifax has considered the complaint as though it recommended the PPI to Ms C. That 
meant, among other things, Halifax needed to take steps to ensure its advice was right for 
her. Regardless of what steps it took, I think the PPI it recommended was right for her in any 
case. 
For example, from what Ms Cs told us about her circumstances, it seems she was eligible 
for the cover. And I cant see that Ms C was affected by any of the main things the policy 
excluded or limited cover or that shed have found the monthly premium unaffordable either.
DRN-1354422I gather Ms C would have been entitled to enhanced sick pay and redundancy pay from her 
public sector employer which she says meant she didnt need PPI. Nevertheless, the PPI 
benefits were considerable and potentially paid out (on top of any existing work benefits) for 
up to 24 months per disability claim and up to 12 months per unemployment claim. 
Taking into account that Ms C had entered into a long-term financial commitment that was 
secured against her home, I think its likely shed have valued the additional protection the 
PPI provided. 
While Ms C says she had life cover and death in service cover, that would have paid a lump 
sum on her death whereas the PPI provided a monthly benefit for disability or 
unemployment. So Im satisfied the policies covered different things.
Halifax also needed to give Ms C enough information about the PPI to allow her to decide for 
herself if it was right for her. I think its possible that the information it gave her could have 
been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think the PPI was unsuitable 
for her, I dont think that better information would have changed her decision to take it. I think 
shed still have thought it provided a useful benefit at an affordable cost.
Ive thought about what Ms Cs said about Halifax paying her compensation for other PPI 
policies it had sold her, but that doesnt change my mind about this complaint. Halifax is 
entitled to defend the sale if it doesnt think compensations due. For the reasons given, I 
dont find that this PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman