DRN-1202171
 
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays closed her bank account and accused her of acting 
fraudulently. 
What happened
Miss S had a number of accounts with Barclays including a current account. 
On the 21 May 2019 Barclays received contact from a third party bank to advise fraudulent 
funds, totalling just over £11,500, had been deposited into Miss Ss account. Barclays 
reviewed Miss Ss account, returned the funds to the sender and on the 3 June 2019 sent 
Miss S a letter advising her account would be closed with immediate notice. 
Miss S complained to Barclays about their decision to close her account. Barclays 
responded to say theyd carefully considered their decision and as theyd followed the terms 
and conditions Miss Ss account wouldnt be reinstated. 
Miss S wasnt happy so brought her complaint to our service. She explained Barclays hadnt 
given her an explanation as to why theyd closed her account, theyd accused her of 
breaking the law and hadnt investigated where the fraudulent funds had come from. Miss S 
explained that she didnt know where the funds had come from and hadnt given her account 
details to anyone.  
Our investigator looked into Miss Ss complain and concluded that Barclays didnt need to do 
anything more here. In summary they thought Barclays had closed Miss Ss account in line 
with the terms and conditions of her account.
Miss S didnt accept our investigators opinion. She said:
The bank didnt share with her what they based their decision on
The bank assumed it was her but she was a victim of fraud  
She needs them to say she's not a fraudster
 
As Miss S didnt accept our investigators outcome its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
Miss S responded to the view and said she wanted the bank to confirm what they based 
their decision on when closing her account  but Im satisfied they dont need to do this. A 
bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. But, before a bank closes an account it must do so in a way, which complies with the 
terms and conditions of the account. Barclays explained they relied upon the terms and 
conditions of Miss Ss account  specifically section 11. 
The terms and conditions of Miss Ss account state that there are certain circumstances 
in which Barclays can immediately close a customers account. The terms and conditions 
state that Barclays can close an account without any notice if they reasonably believe:
You give us any false information at any time.
You commit (or attempt) fraud against us or someone else.
You use (or allow someone else to use) your account illegally or for criminal activity, 
including receiving proceeds of crime into your account.
You inappropriately let someone else use your account.
You behave in a threatening or abusive manner to our staff.
You become bankrupt (unless you have a Barclays Basic Current Account).
 
Or if we reasonably believe that maintaining your account might expose us (or another 
Barclays company) to action or censure from any government, regulator or law enforcement 
agency.
I've looked at the terms and conditions, and I'm satisfied that Barclays followed these terms 
when they closed Miss S's account. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Miss S and I appreciate the closure of her account 
caused her inconvenience. But the bank can make commercial decisions about who it 
offers banking services to. They cant unfairly discriminate against a consumer. But they 
can decide they no longer want to do business with individuals. Thats because they have 
the commercial freedom to decide who theyd like to contract with. And Im satisfied that in 
Miss Ss case Barclays exercised its commercial freedom legitimately when it decided 
to close her account.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman