DRN-4208126
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked his debit card when he was trying to 
complete a transaction. He also complains about the service he received when trying to 
resolve matters.
What happened
In October 2022, Mr Ks debit card was blocked following a transaction he tried to make. 
Mr K said he called HSBC to try and unblock his card and was on the phone for over three 
hours. He also said his call was transferred 20 times and he wasnt able to use his online 
banking either. Mr K said he complained about matters, but HSBC didnt register his 
complaint like it said it would. So, he said he stayed on the phone for another two hours to 
try and register the complaint.
Mr K said he was unable to buy food or put fuel in his car. And his young child, who was with 
him when this happened, was hungry and thirsty. Mr K also said the matter had caused him 
severe mental distress which he had to see his doctor for. 
 
HSBC reviewed matters and, in summary, said Mr Ks attempted transaction was highlighted 
by its fraud system, and an automatic block was put on the account. HSBC said its system 
appeared to show that it attempted to send a notification to Mr K through his mobile banking 
app, but this was unsuccessful. It recommended that Mr K enabled the push notifications on 
his app to prevent a reoccurrence. 
It acknowledged that this matter would have caused Mr K some frustration, but also 
explained that fraud checks were a part of its policy and, whilst it aimed to keep these 
checks to a minimum, some transactions may still be flagged if there were fraud concerns. 
HSBC acknowledged and apologised for the call-wait time Mr K experienced. Overall, it paid 
Mr K £100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr K remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
reviewed matters. Following some further correspondence, HSBC agreed to offer a further 
£100 compensation, bringing the total up to £200. Our investigator thought this was a fair 
way to put matters right, but Mr K didnt. In summary, he disagreed that £200 was fair, 
considering the impact on his mental health, and his young child. Mr K also provided more 
information about the impact matters had on his mental health.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr K for the detail he has provided in relation to his complaint. I have read 
and taken into account everything that both parties have submitted, however, my findings 
will only address matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint. So, I wont 
address every point that has been raised. I trust this wont be taken as a discourtesy, but this 
reflects the informal nature of our service. 
In his submissions to this service, Mr K has made reference to several issues that he says 
have occurred over the last year or so. However, its important I explain that my decision will 
only focus on the crux of this complaint, which is when Mr Ks debit card was blocked in 
October 2022, and the service issues surrounding this. And its important I explain that I can 
only consider the impact on Mr K as the eligible complainant here.
The terms of Mr Ks account outline that HSBC may block access to services for a number of 
reasons, including circumstances where it has concerns about security. Whilst I appreciate 
the inconvenience and upset this caused Mr K when he was unable to use his account, here, 
HSBC has said the reason behind the block was because it had concerns about security. 
So, on balance and based on the information Ive been provided with, Im persuaded that the 
actions HSBC took were to safeguard Mr Ks account. 
That being said, whilst HSBCs actions here were in line with the terms of the account, both 
parties are in agreement that the overall service offered could have been better. For 
example, as I understand it, Mr K didnt receive a notification to alert him that a transaction 
needed to be verified, so he had to call the fraud team. Its also not in dispute that Mr K was 
on the phone trying to sort matters out for a long time and his calls were transferred a 
number of times. 
As its not in dispute that things went wrong with the service Mr K received, whats left for me 
to decide in the circumstances is whether the amount HSBC has offered is enough to put 
matters right.
In summary, and amongst other points, Mr K says the service he received had a profound 
effect on an existing mental health condition that he is dealing with. In summary, he says he 
was highly distressed being without his card for a day and a night. He also said that being on 
the phone for a long time whilst he had his young child in the car meant that his mental 
health was still suffering. 
Id like to thank Mr K for providing detailed testimony about his health, and relevant 
supporting information. Im aware Ive summarised what hes told us in less detail than what 
hes provided, but I want to assure him that I have considered all the information hes 
submitted. I dont underestimate how stressful the matter was for Mr K and I dont doubt the 
testimony hes provided. As Ive outlined, its not in dispute that matters could have been 
dealt with more quickly, and the overall service offered could have been better.
Im pleased to see that HSBC recognised that it should have provided Mr K with a better 
service than it did and that it has already apologised to Mr K. I was very sorry to hear about 
the impact the matter had on Mr Ks mental health. Having considered all the information Ive 
been provided with, and the impact on Mr K, I think that an additional £100 compensation is 
reasonable in the circumstances, bringing the total amount to £200. 
I know Mr K wants more compensation and I acknowledge his strength of feeling on the 
matter. However, having carefully considered all the information Ive been provided with, Im 
persuaded that £200 compensation is a fair and reasonable amount to acknowledge the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr K as a result of this matter.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr K £100 compensation, in 
addition to the £100 it has already paid him, for the distress and inconvenience this matter caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman