DRN-2476774
The complaint
J, a business, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed its bank account in error which led to
disruption and difficulties for the business and its owner.
What happened
J originally traded as a partnership. In July 2019 Lloyds was notified by a firm of 
accountants that a partner had passed away in 2018. It closed the accounts of the 
partnership and sent the substantial balance to the firm of accountants. J had been 
effectively operating as a sole trader and now did not have an account. The owner says 
that he had to deal with outstanding payments and cheques, and this affected the 
reputation of the business.
In a final response to the complaint Lloyds said that we closed down your business 
account in error and we should have given you time to set up your New Account while 
having access to the Partnership Account. As your old account was closed you went 
approximately three weeks without access to a business account which is completely 
unacceptable. This was a huge error and I would like to apologise  Lloyds offered to pay 
J £350 for the inconvenience which it did not accept.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She issued two views. In the 
first she recommended that Lloyds pay J £500 for the inconvenience caused. Lloyds 
understood that J had accepted this and paid it. J sent further information about the 
impact of what happened and specifically the additional costs for its accountants and the 
visits the owner needed to make to creditors and other professionals. He explained that 
he had used over £19,000 of his own personal money to pay for supplies and other costs 
for the business. Having considered this our investigator recommended that Lloyds pay J 
a further
£350 making a total of £850. Lloyds said it would agree to pay this.
J did not agree. The owner said that he was mystified as to how the costs and impact of 
what happened were reflected in the increased amount. He thought that this was a case in 
which a large business like Lloyds did not have to make recompense for the mistake it 
made. And as he was operating a small family business the inconvenience was 
substantial and he could not see why no consideration of that was made. He was 
disappointed that Lloyds was getting away lightly and he wanted to play a part in ensuring 
that the chance of
this happening in future to others were reduced. He was fortunately able to be in strong
position to be proactive and had he not been the effects would have proved more 
devastating.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 11 December 2020. I set this out below.
I said I was considering this matter afresh. I needed to make clear that our role is not to 
punish businesses and we can only look at what happened to J here and not what might 
have happened or that could affect any other customer.
First I wanted to summarise what I thought is the background. There were three partners 
in this family business but two of them passed away in 2018. J did not notify Lloyds at that 
time but continued to trade then effectively as a sole trader. It seems that accountants 
acting for J and the estate contacted Lloyds to ask that the personal accounts of one of 
the partners be closed and the funds sent by cheque to it. On 30 September 2019 the 
accounts of J were also closed. A new account for J was opened on 17 October 2019 and 
it was able to bank cheques. But it said that after three weeks it still did not have a cheque 
book or bank card. There were funds in the partnership accounts of over £350,000 that 
had been sent by cheque to the accountants and then returned to Lloyds.
The position of Lloyds is that the death of the other partners brings the partnership to an 
end and that J would need a new sole trader account. It accepts it should have allowed a 
smooth transition and which would have dealt with succession and how the money in the 
partnership account was dispersed. It clearly in error treated the business account in the 
same way as the personal accounts of one of the deceased partners and thats why it sent 
the money in the account to the accountants too.
the impact for J
J was able to continue to trade in the interim as the owner used his personal funds. He 
describes how he visited both the bank, his accountants and his suppliers and customers 
and re-issued nine cheques not honoured and that he made direct payments to an 
employee and sent five cheque by post. He visited an agent to reassure it of his ability to 
make a payment for a land purchase. He details over 440 miles of travel to do this and 
says that the effective cost to the business was £0.45 a mile.
J has provided invoices from his accountants which refer to the specific extra work of 
dealing with the closure of the accounts and the cheque sent to it. There is one specific 
invoice of £200 and J claims £150 of the partial costs of another making a total of £350.
J also says that there were problems as the regular payments were not moved over to the 
new account correctly. It refers to a late payment charge of £40 and a debt management 
cost of £15 relating to a phone account.
A claim for time spent on dealing with all these matters is made of over 20 hours and for 
disruption to the business. J says that as it did not have access to the funds it could not 
bid for other property. It asks for £1,000 for not having access to its money.
my assessment
Its accepted that J was inconvenienced by what happened. I set out what I thought
is reasonable compensation.
I was satisfied that J has substantiated some specific costs as I had seen some relevant 
invoices and accept the owners testimony about the others. I itemised these as £350 
toward unavoidable accountancy costs, £200 for mileage and £55 for late payment fees  
making a total of £605.
As I said above I wouldnt be considering hypothetical losses and loss of opportunity. I also 
noted that of the money in Js account at the time it was closed only a proportion was in an interest earning account and that was earning about £7 a month. I accepted though based 
on the pattern of payments in the account that J had to access additional funds to make 
normal payments and that its estimate of what was involved is reasonable. I reflected this 
by applying a simple rate of interest of eight percent to a balance of £19,000 for 30 days  
making a total interest payment rounded to the nearest pound of £125.
I said that we dont tend to make awards for specific units of time and would not make that 
at a professional rate. Here J has been inconvenienced by what happened and I did take 
into account the impact on the owner as a sole trader. In my judgement compensation of 
£500 for this taking into account the time involved is reasonable. And I reflected that J said 
it did take mitigating actions as its described. I was unable to find any specific financial loss 
here has been substantiated.
So, in summary my award is a total of £1,230 of which J has already received £500. 
Lloyds in my view has apologised unreservedly to J in its letter. I appreciated that the 
owner of J wanted more to mark what happened and as it did not think that Lloyds would 
be affected by this. But Ive explained what I think is fair recompense by component and 
overall. This as I say has involved me making my own judgement and I hoped J would 
now see this as a reasonable overall settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds said that it still thought that its offer was fair and reasonable but that it would pay the 
recommended further amount.
J responded and the owner said that he was pleased that there was a more acceptable 
outcome. He said that one important area still remains. While he was able to cover 
payments for supplies and wages he was not in a position to buy replacement stock. This 
was the reason for having funds available in an account that earned little. He normally 
bought this at Autumn sales and needed more in 2019 given the increased capacity of the 
business. As an example, in October 2020 just over £20,000 was spent on stock. In October 
2019 he was at an auction when he found out about the issue with the bank account. And 
so, the plans for purchase were abandoned. The owner said he was unable to quantify the 
losses for J but did want an acknowledgment of them.
I have no reason to doubt what J says about this. And I cant know exactly what other 
opportunities to buy stock might have been available to J or whether by then it would too late 
in the year. Ive accepted that for a time the owner was involved in resolving the immediate 
issues. As he cant substantiate any specific loss I dont have a reasonable basis to make an 
award for financial loss.
I have considered whether I should change the other elements of my award as a result. But 
on balance I remain of the view that my provisional findings were a fair response to what has 
happened and in particular that the compensation for inconvenience is appropriate. I will 
therefore not be making any changes to my original assessment.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay J a further 
£730 making a total of £1,230 (as it has already paid £500).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman