DRN-4192115
The complaint
This complaint relates to the service provided by St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc 
(SJPWM) to Mr and Mrs G and their sons. 
Ordinarily Id use something like Mr G to refer to a complainant, in an effort to preserve 
anonymity when my decisions are published on the Financial Ombudsmans website. 
But here I have more than one person who could be described as Mr G. So Im going to 
use a different labelling system, based on the connections between the people involved. 
Ill refer to the father and mother of the other people involved as Mr G and Mrs G. 
One of their sons had a power of attorney for Mr G  Ill refer to them as FA for fathers 
attorney. Similarly, another son had power of attorney for Mrs G  Ill refer to them as MA 
for mothers attorney. 
I can write my decision without needing to specifically refer to anyone else. 
When matters were first brought to us the attorneys were able to bring a complaint to us on 
behalf of Mr and Mrs G. Mr and Mrs G were customers of SJPWM, so they  through 
representatives  were eligible to complain about the service they received. 
Mr G passed away during the course of our investigation. His will named his sons as 
potential executors. For the purposes of this decision, Im going to assume probate has been 
 or will be  granted on that basis, and FA now represents Mr Gs estate.
In addition, Mr and Mrs G established various trusts over the years to hold investments 
theyd set up. It appears FA and MA have been added as trustees for these, with another 
son also named as trustee on some of them too. As trustees, the sons are then eligible to 
bring a complaint to us about the service theyve received from SJP in their own right. 
And as a final point, FA has referred to a data protection issue he feels affects directors of a 
limited company. Ill explain below how I cant see a complainant relationship eligible for our 
scheme exists between that company and SJP. So Im not going to consider a complaint on 
behalf of the directors in this decision, even assuming FA is able to represent them to us. 
What happened
For some years, Mr and Mrs G received financial advice from SJPWM. Their aims appear to 
have been to receive an income, and to allow their estates to pass to their sons without 
having to pay too much inheritance tax. To that end, Mr and Mrs G  although mainly Mr G  
took out a few different investments and life assurance plans. Some of these they placed in 
trusts, of varying sorts. 
In late 2019, FA and MA met SJPWM and discussed Mr and Mrs Gs investments. An email 
from SJPWM to MA in October 2019 shows these discussions included 
working out how Mr and Mrs Gs investments were now labelled, as this had changed 
over time; 
arranging online access for FA and MA to view details about the investments;
who the life assured was for some of the bonds and the effect this could have on 
later tax-chargeable events;
two life cover plans (although it seems to later be confirmed Mr and Mrs G had taken 
out three); 
what could be done with funds from the limited company Mr G was director of; and 
the risk level and performance of some of the investments.
These discussions led to some further emails about adding FA and MA as trustees for the 
trusts where Mr and Mrs G were trustees. SJPWM provided a document that would appoint 
new trustees. But they dont appear to have explained how this would fit with FA and MAs 
plan to remove Mrs G as a trustee. 
That led to the forms not working as planned. SJPWM appear to have explained the 
situation to FA and MA in March 2020. The appointments did ultimately go ahead, but it was 
delayed and Mr and Mrs G had to redo some of the paperwork.
Progress here was also affected by an issue identified in April 2020. SJPWM only had 
undated deeds for some of the trusts. In their later response to the complaint, SJPWM 
offered to pay for a lawyer to confirm the trusts were set up as intended. I understand FA 
and MA have since found the dated trust deeds in Mr Gs files. 
In the complaint that followed, FAs position was that the delay appointing new trustees had 
delayed them changing the investments to something more suitable. SJPWM have done a 
few different calculations through the course of this complaint, to see what difference it might 
have made to change the investments sooner. All of their calculations have shown the trusts 
are actually better off for having stayed in their original holdings longer than intended. 
SJPWMs response to the 2020 complaint sought to acknowledge the trouble and upset 
theyd caused for Mr and Mrs G and the trustees. They offered a total payment of £1,000 to 
do so. This wasnt accepted, so the matter fell to us for review. 
One of our investigators gave their view that the compensation here should be slightly higher 
than SJPWM had offered. He suggested £700 be paid on top of £500 SJPWM had itemised 
for the delay in responding to the complaint  a total of £1,200. 
This too wasnt accepted. But there seems to have been some further negotiation between 
both sides. This led to SJPWM agreeing to pay compensation of £5,000 to resolve the 
complaints raised in 2020 on behalf of Mr and Mrs G and the trustees. I understand that 
payment was made in February 2023.
While this was going on, so too was the interaction between FA and SJPWM about the 
investments and life policies held by Mr and Mrs G and the various trusts. In a 10-page letter 
to us in July 2021, FA raised further complaints about the service provided by SJPWM. 
Some of the points FA made restated the issues later resolved by the agreement for £5,000 
compensation. But there were some new issues too. FA felt bonds had been mis-sold to 
Mr G on the basis they didnt include lives assured other than Mr and Mrs G, and were in 
trusts that only had the settlors as trustee. He also complained about a delay transferring 
Mr Gs ISA to a new provider and cashing in a bond Mr G held personally. He also 
highlighted information SJPWM had provided that had later been seen to be incorrect. 
Our investigator took these matters forward, leading to a further complaint response from 
SJPWM in January 2023. This again concluded there hadnt been a financial loss for Mr and Mrs G or the trusts. But it offered a total of £500 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by a delay withdrawing Mr Gs personal investment bond, and in responding to FAs 
further complaint. 
This response prompted further complaints from FA, including that SJPWM shouldnt have 
included details linked to the limited company Mr G had been connected to. 
Our investigator took a look and gave their view  they felt this was a reasonable offer from 
SJPWM. FA didnt accept this. Seemingly in line with his earlier complaint, he said he 
wanted SJPWM to pay further compensation of £5,500. 
Unresolved, the matters come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres been a lot of complication to pick through with this case. That in part reflects the way 
Mr and Mrs G  on the advice of SJPWM  set up their various investments and life policies. 
The arrangements in place look to be in line with their objectives over the years. Using 
investments was a way to take their money and have it provide an income without reducing 
the capital too much. Using trusts allowed for steps to be taken to manage what would end 
up having to be paid as inheritance tax when the time came to pass on their wealth to their 
children. And setting up life policies would help meet whatever inheritance tax burden 
remained for any assets not held in trust. 
I dont agree some of the recent points raised by KA in his complaint. A trust doesnt have to 
have more than one trustee, as far as I understand. And I dont know of any rules against 
settlors being trustees of their own trusts, although I believe Scottish law may have some 
rules about informing beneficiaries of their interests in such circumstances. 
But I recognise theres something to be said for trying to ensure there are trustees living 
when trusts proceeds become payable. But that doesnt mean SJPWM had to direct Mr and 
Mrs G to make those sorts of arrangements in order for the sale of the investments and life 
policies to be reasonable. 
Ive seen some of the financial reviews and suitability letters SJPWM wrote to Mr G over the 
years. These show options such as having other people as the life assured, or who to have 
as a trustee were discussed. The set ups used seem to reflect what Mr G chose to do at the 
time. I can appreciate FA and MA might have done things differently, but that doesnt make 
what SJPWM did for Mr and Mrs G at the time unreasonable. 
Another complication here is that the complaints  while presented mainly by FA  come to 
us on behalf of various eligible complainants. Ive had to think about the best way to handle 
that when making my decision, particularly where there is discussion around compensation 
for trouble and upset caused for a complainant. 
In some of these complaints, FA represents Mr G or Mr Gs estate. For those matters, any 
remedy I direct is for the impact on Mr G or his estate, not FA personally. But in other 
complaints, FA is a trustee of a trust. For those matters, I can direct a remedy for him 
personally. 
Thats important for the complaints FA raised about the transfer of Mr Gs ISA, and when surrendering a bond Mr G held personally. Ive not seen evidence of delays affecting the 
value of either asset. The ISA remained invested while waiting to be transferred, and I 
understand the bond went up in value while waiting to be surrendered. So the impact of 
these delays appears limited to the frustration and inconvenience caused for Mr G and FA. 
As Mr Gs representative, FA himself isnt the eligible complainant here. So Im not going to 
direct any remedy for the impact here on FA. And I note that his involvement served to shield 
Mr G from much of the inconvenience caused. For example, it was FA  not Mr G  who 
chased up bond surrender forms with SJPWM between February and April 2021. 
I can appreciate though that Mr G may have been troubled to hear his son was having 
difficulty. And FA has told us Mr G was put to the inconvenience of completing some extra 
paperwork. A modest amount of compensation from SJPWM would acknowledge that 
impact, although theres nothing can be done to erase it completely. 
SJPWM offered a payment of £250 to acknowledge the impact on Mr G here, and I consider 
that reasonable, given the circumstances. Im not going to direct an increased amount. 
A different eligibility issue arises in FAs complaint on behalf of a limited company whose 
data he believes has been unreasonably released by SJPWM. Our scheme  specifically 
part 2.7.6 of the DISP section of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook  says that a 
complaint must arise from a relevant relationship with the respondent business in order for a 
complainant to be eligible to use our service. 
The limited company FAs referred to doesnt appear to have one of those relationships. So 
while they may wish to complain to SJPWM, they wont be eligible to have FA bring that 
complaint to us on their behalf. 
That complaint does though illustrate what I feel is the major issue here  there seems to be 
an absence of goodwill in this relationship. Every mistake or discrepancy is being argued 
over, even where there isnt an impact on the investments, or after steps are taken to try to 
keep the management of the investments and life policies on track.
I note the significant amount of compensation SJPWM agreed to previously - £5,000. I view 
that as much higher than the level of compensation Id have directed was needed for the 
issues it addressed. I view it as a genuine attempt by SJPWM to repair the relationship with 
their customers. To draw a line under what went before, and get on with the task of providing 
an effective financial service. 
That seems not to have worked. And I can appreciate some of that is due to continued 
delays in SJPWMs processes, or discrepancies in the dates or values shown for the 
investments. But in his presentation of these to us, it seems FA is satisfied he knows what 
the correct values are and is simply highlighting that a mistake had to be corrected. I see 
little further for me to have SJPWM do to put right the impact of those issues. 
But it speaks to the emotional impact on FA as trustee and representative of Mr Gs estate. 
The estate itself doesnt have its own emotional aspect, so Im not going to direct a remedy 
for it. But thats not to say I dont appreciate that this is FAs fathers estate, and the 
importance that creates for him that things are done correctly. Its just again that hes the 
representative of a complainant, rather than the complainant himself. 
My decision ultimately comes down to how SJPWM can acknowledge how their continued 
delays and mistakes will be affecting FA and MA as trustees. Im led towards compensation, 
but a modest amount. The delays  particularly in dealing with the complaints raised  have 
at times been significant. But the underlying investments havent been impacted, from what I can see. There hasnt been a financial loss for the trusts.
As Ive noted above, the £500 SJPWM offered in January 2023 included £250 for matters 
relating to Mr Gs assets, rather than trust assets. That leaves £250 that could be seen as 
being offered to FA as a trustee. I find that amount matches with the modest compensation 
value I think should be paid in this case. So again, Im not going to direct a higher amount 
from SJPWM. 
I appreciate thats much less than the £5,000 already agreed for the issues raised in 2020. 
But that reflects that if I was being asked to consider a suitable remedy for those issues too, 
Id likely direct a much lower amount of compensation be paid. 
Putting things right
I direct SJPWM to pay £500 to KA. £250 of this is to him as representative of Mr Gs estate, 
and £250 is to him to be shared with his co-trustees as they see fit. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint about St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc. If 
accepted by the complainants, theyll need to pay the compensation Ive directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the 
representatives of Mrs G, Mr Gs estate, and the relevant trustees to accept or reject my 
decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman