DRN-4118904
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank 
(M&S) dealt with his application for a credit limit increase.
What happened
Mr C says he asked M&S to increase his credit limit on his credit card account from £7,000 
to £15,000 in late 2022. He says his credit score is high and has substantial savings as well 
as assets. Mr C says he withdraws his tax-free allowance as an income but questions the 
criteria M&S uses to assess affordability. He also complains about how long his application 
took. Mr C says he has been caused distress and inconvenience and would like M&S to re-
consider its policy as well as increase the credit limit.
M&S says Mr Cs income wasnt high enough on the face of it to justify the increase. It says 
Mr C didnt provide required documents which it says it would consider. M&S accepts there 
was a delay and has offered £75 compensation. It also says one of its underwriters will 
speak to Mr C in person about its requirements.
Mr C brought his complaint to us, and our investigator thought M&S had offered an 
appropriate compensation amount and had fairly offered Mr C the opportunity to speak to 
one of its underwriters to consider the application further.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says this complaint deserves greater investigation as its 
of importance to a wider customer base.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that M&S has made a fair and reasonable 
offer to settle this complaint.
I appreciate how strongly Mr C feels about what took place and what he considers to be the 
failures of M&Ss assessment to take account of his personal circumstances. I hope it will be 
of some assistance to Mr C if I explain what our role is here. We are not M&Ss regulator and 
so not our role to punish it or direct it on how it deals with applications such as Mr Cs. We 
also cant consider the wider implications of this complaint or how, as Mr C suggests, it 
affects a wider customer base.
I appreciate Mr Cs frustration here, that on the face of it he has significant assets and the 
highest credit score. But has made a decision to withdraw an income from his assets in line 
with tax allowances which it seems has affected his application to M&S for a credit limit 
increase. I have made clear that its not our role to decide if that policy is appropriate.
Im satisfied that an impasse was reached between M&S, and Mr C. I can see M&S 
requested information from Mr C whom in turn wanted clarity about what was needed and 
why. The important point here is that M&S has now fairly offered Mr C the opportunity to 
speak to one of its underwriters to discuss exactly what is required to consider any 
application to increase the credit limit. Im satisfied that M&S has acted fairly by doing so and 
is a sensible solution to the problem. I appreciate Mr C may consider that offer too late and 
of course its up to him to decide if he wishes to accept it. I can see that Mr C has told us the 
credit limit issue didnt cause the anticipated problems whilst abroad.
I accept the compensation offer is not the main issue but am satisfied M&S has made a fair 
and reasonable compensation offer. I dont think Mr C suffered any financial loss and that 
the level of inconvenience was relatively minimal. It follows that I dont think the delays here 
justify further compensation and have made clear the impact Mr C feared whilst abroad 
didnt materialise.
Overall, Im satisfied M&S has fairly offered to speak to Mr C and discuss what is needed to 
consider a new credit limit increase. Im also satisfied that this brings an end to what we in 
trying to resolve this complaint informally can do. Mr C has made clear he doesnt wish to 
speak to M&S and so I will not make such an order as part of my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank has 
made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £75 which it should now pay Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman