DRN-2827297
The complaint 
Ms M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a packaged bank account, 
called a Silver account.
Bank of Scotland charged Ms M a monthly fee for the Silver account and provided several 
potential benefits in return. She thinks it should refund her all the fees she paid and add 
interest. 
What happened
Bank of Scotland sold the Silver account to Ms M during 2012. This was her first account 
with Bank of Scotland, and she kept it until at least early 2021. The benefits included 
insurance for mobile phones, use of a car breakdown service and travel insurance.
 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Ms Ms complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland mis-sold the Silver account to her. Ms M didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her case. So, it has come to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Ms M and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
In 2012, Bank of Scotland, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank 
accounts in two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only 
(or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. Whichever approach Bank 
of Scotland used for Ms M, as well as giving her a choice, I would have expected it to tell her 
about the Silver accounts costs and benefits clearly and fairly; and in an advised sale, I 
would also have expected it to check if she needed the benefits which the account could 
provide before making its recommendation. 
Both parties have told us that Bank of Scotland sold the Silver account to Ms M during a 
meeting at one of its branches and advised her to buy it. So, I have considered the complaint 
as being about an advised sale.
The main point of Ms Ms complaint is that she doesnt think that Bank of Scotland gave her 
a fair choice or told her about alternative fee-free accounts. Shes also told us that it said that 
if she wanted an overdraft she had to change to (the silver) account. 
Firstly, I would like to clarify that banks rarely consider the type of account a customer holds 
when deciding whether to allow overdrafts, so its highly likely that if Bank of Scotland would 
have approved an overdraft for Ms M with a Silver account, then it would also have approved 
an overdraft for her if she had held one of its fee-free accounts. But the point Ms M is making 
is that she thinks Bank of Scotland misled her about this during the meeting. 
Obviously, I cant tell for sure what Bank of Scotland said, or didnt say, to Ms M during the 
discussion in 2012, but I find it unlikely that it didnt mention fee-free accounts. They were 
widely available in the UK at that time, both from Bank of Scotland and from other banks, 
and have remained so since. I dont think Bank of Scotland would have been able to pretend 
they didnt exist.
 
I have also seen a copy of a form which Bank of Scotland seems to have filled out either 
during or very soon after the meeting and to have given Ms M a copy. The form contains the 
following statement:
Ms M, I have highlighted a cash account because this is the product you requested.
(The cash account was a fee-free account). 
The form also describes the benefits and cost of the Silver account and goes on to say:
Ms M, you have chosen (the) Silver account.
So, it seems highly likely to me that Ms M may well have initially asked about a fee-free 
account, that Bank of Scotland acknowledged this, but then recommended the Silver 
account to her. I think it probably allowed her a choice between the two accounts. 
The form also outlines some of the Silver accounts benefits and their limitations. So, Im 
satisfied that Bank of Scotland probably discussed them with Ms M. Similarly, Im also 
confident that it told her how much the Silver account would cost.
I dont know a great deal about Ms Ms circumstances at the time, but it seems likely that she 
had a potential need for some of Silver accounts them benefits. For example, she went on 
to register a mobile phone for insurance and has also mentioned using a car. So, I also think 
Bank of Scotlands advice was reasonable. 
There is no mention of an overdraft on the form, and Bank of Scotland has told us that Ms M 
didnt overdraw her account for quite a while after she bought the Silver account. I doubt 
Bank of Scotland misled her about overdrafts in the way she has described, particularly as 
Im satisfied that it mentioned fee-free accounts during the meeting. 
In recent correspondence with us, Ms M has asked why she would have gone for a Silver 
account if she had known she could have had a fee-free account with an overdraft. I dont 
know the answer to this question. But, given her potential needs, I can certainly see why the 
Silver account may have been attractive to her all those years ago. And as I dont think that 
Bank of Scotland misled her, and Im satisfied that it gave her a choice, provided reasonable 
advice and told her about the cost and benefits of the Silver account, I dont think it mis-sold 
the Silver account to her. 
Ms M has also mentioned that a few years ago she asked Bank of Scotland if she could 
switch to a fee-free account, but it told her that such accounts didnt provide contactless 
payments (which she wanted) to stop her changing. I dont know when this may have 
happened or what the circumstances were at the time. From the correspondence I have 
seen, Bank of Scotland seems to have acknowledge this point and asked Ms M for more 
information. But it has not responded any further. As I have so little information, I havent 
considered this point within this decision and Ms M is free to raise it further with Bank of Scotland if she so wishes. But I cant give her any advice about this. Nor can I speculate on 
how Bank of Scotland may respond or whether any subsequent complaint which Ms M may 
wish to bring to us will fall inside or outside the rules and time limits which govern the cases 
we can consider.
 My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Ms Ms complaint that Bank of 
Scotland plc mis-sold her the Silver account. I am not going to tell it to give her any money 
back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman