DRN-3365780
The complaint
Mr D complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans irresponsibly 
provided him with an unaffordable loan. 
What happened
The main loan details are as follows: 
Date Amount TermMonthly 
repaymentAPRTotal amount 
repayable
30/08/2016 £4,000 30 months £272.89 89.9% £8,186.70
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr D and Everyday Loans told us and he thought 
that Everyday Loans shouldnt have provided this loan. So he recommended upholding 
Mr Ds complaint. Everyday Loans disagreed and asked for an ombudsman review of this 
complaint.
In brief summary, Everyday Loans said that its loan consolidated Mr Ds payday lending and 
broke the debt cycle he had found himself in. Additionally, he would be able to pay off a lump 
sum on his largest credit card. Everyday Loans said its affordability calculation showed that 
the payday loan cycle he was in was unaffordable as Mr D was left with a negative monthly 
disposable income  in other words, a shortfall each month before this loan. After taking out 
this loan and using it for the planned debt consolidation Everyday Loans said Mr D should 
instead have a monthly surplus.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending, 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, on our 
website. Having thought about everything, I agree with the conclusion our investigator came 
to. Ill explain why I say this. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or 
more money problems for a borrower already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Everyday Loans asked Mr D about his income and expenses. It also did its own credit check 
to understand his credit history and find out about his existing credit commitments and it 
reviewed bank statements provided by Mr D. 
After checking information it saw on his bank statements, Everyday Loans recorded Mr Ds 
monthly take home pay was around £1,583. Everyday Loans took into account the amount 
Mr D said he paid for board and lodging and relied on nationally available statistics when 
thinking about Mr Ds likely spending on other living costs. 
Based on this, Everyday Loans affordability assessment led it to conclude that after taking 
out its loan and using it for the planned debt consolidation, this shouldve moved Mr D from a 
position where he had a monthly shortfall to having around £256 surplus cash each month. 
So Everyday Loans was satisfied that the loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr D. 
Like our investigator, I think Everyday Loans checks were broadly proportionate. But, 
despite its affordability calculation appearing to show that Mr D should have had enough 
disposable income each month to cover the loan repayments, I think Everyday Loans 
shouldve realised this was unlikely, given the picture painted overall by the other information 
it had gathered. 
I think Everyday Loans saw that Mr D had an established record of using expensive short-
term and unsecured loans and, when he applied for this loan, he was already paying at least 
ten other providers of payday loans and high cost credit. In total, he owed more than 
£13,000 on loans  as well as more than £4,500 on a mail order account and two active 
credit cards which were both maxed out at the account limits. 
He had continued to borrow in the months running up to applying for this loan  including 
taking three new payday loans in the weeks before applying for this loan.
Despite also receiving payments into his account from friends as well as these other lenders, 
Everyday Loans saw from his bank statements that Mr D was still going overdrawn from time 
to time. This led to direct debit payments being returned to the account and Mr D incurring 
bank fees for using his overdraft and going overdrawn on an unplanned basis.
When Mr D applied for this loan Everyday Loans worked out that his debt servicing costs to 
existing creditors were already close to three quarters of his verified take home pay. I think 
that this amount was such a significant proportion it was a further clear indication that Mr D 
had become over-reliant on credit and, in reality, was already experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised that Mr Ds debt had got beyond his control and it 
seemed likely he was borrowing from one creditor to pay others. 
I've taken into account that the loan was used for debt consolidation and Everyday Loans 
directly repaid some of Mr Ds outstanding credit before paying the loan balance to him  
which it thought Mr D would use to reduce his largest credit card balance. But I dont think Everyday Loans had sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his 
overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his 
financial situation. I think the scale of his overall debt compared to the value of the loan and 
the extent of Mr Ds evident reliance on taking out expensive credit would suggest that he 
would remain in serious financial trouble regardless. 
And bearing in mind that even with this debt consolidation his monthly debt servicing costs 
would likely be equivalent to around half his income, it was unrealistic to expect Mr D to be 
able to commit to paying such a significant level of income towards debt repayments over 
the loan term. 
Thinking about all the information Everyday Loans had gathered, I cant reasonably say that 
it made a fair lending decision. 
I dont think Everyday Loans was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably 
affordable for Mr D. I believe that Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have been aware that 
this loan was likely to be detrimental to Mr D and recognised that it shouldnt have provided 
it. 
So Everyday Loans needs to put things right. 
As Mr D has been further indebted with a high amount of interest on a loan that he shouldnt 
have been provided with he has lost out as a result of what Everyday Loans did wrong. 
I think Everyday Loans needs to take the following steps to put things right.
Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that Everyday Loans should pay any additional redress. 
Mr D hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think Everyday 
Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr D in any other way. So Im not awarding 
any additional redress. 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr D to repay the capital amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending - but he shouldnt repay any more than this. 
Everyday Loans should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr D received as a result of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr D made should be deducted from this amount. 
If this results in Mr D having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr D.
Whilst its fair that Mr Ds credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend a loan that was 
unfairly provided. So Everyday Loans should remove any negative information 
recorded on Mr Ds credit file regarding the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he asks for one.My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman