DRN-3997851
The complaint
Miss B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to process the closure 
of her account properly. 
What happened
Miss B held a current account with RBS with an overdraft limit of £300. In June 2021 RBS 
approved a loan of £1,800 the monthly repayments of £97.61 were being paid by direct debit 
from Miss Bs current account.
Following a review of Miss Bs account RBS took the decision to close her account and gave 
her 60 days notice by letter dated 20 April 2022. Within the letter it explained that overdraft 
facilities will be withdrawn and that standing orders and direct debits would also be cancelled 
and that it may take formal action to recover any outstanding debt and inform credit 
reference agencies of this. The letter also says RBS recommends Miss B consider 
transferring her loan to another lender and that if she isnt doing this she will need to get in 
contact urgently to confirm her chosen repayment method.
Miss B statements show that her banking facilities were withdrawn from her from on 20 June 
2022. RBS have told us that as Miss Bs account was closed with an outstanding balance 
recovery action was taken to recover the balance. 
Despite Miss Bs account being closed her loan repayments of £97.61 continued to leave her 
account but were returned as the banking facilities including her overdraft had been 
withdrawn. The statements show that unpaid transaction fees of around £6.45 and around 
£26 in overdraft interest were charged for the period from June 2022 until the account was 
sent to recoveries. Miss B was servicing her loan repayments by paying £100 a month from 
another account. Miss Bs loan statements show that she was charged £4.20 for paying the 
incorrect amount of £100 on her loan.
Miss B complained to RBS that it continued to take her loan payments from her account 
despite it being closed and that the payments were being returned and she was being 
charged for this. 
RBS apologised for the inconvenience but said it had made the decision to close the account 
and that no error had been made on its behalf. RBS says that Miss B was given 60 days 
notice that her account was to close and to make alternative banking arrangements including 
an alternative bank account for the loan to be repaid from. As Miss B didnt respond to this 
her loan account wasnt amended which resulted in charges being applied.
Miss B was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators investigated Miss Bs concerns and reached the conclusion that 
providing the correct notice was given RBS is under no obligation to continue offering an 
account to a customer if it doesnt want to.
Miss B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 January 2023 giving RBS and Miss B until 20 February 
2023 to provide further evidence or comments. In my provisional decision I thought that RBS 
hadnt made a mistake in closing Miss Bs account but that the notice of closure couldve 
been clearer regarding the action Miss B needed to take regarding continuing her loan 
repayments. 
RBS disagreed and said the information Miss B needed to contact RBS was in the letter 
which is all it was obliged to provide.  
Following this I asked for further information from RBS including but not limited to evidence 
of the support it offered to Miss B in paying off her overdraft and for contact notes for all 
communication between RBS and Miss B from January 2022 until her account was defaulted 
on 15 September 2022.
I also asked Miss B whether she sought help from RBS regarding the repayment of her 
overdraft.
RBS responded saying it had nothing showing on its customer event notes or debt manager 
for the dates requested and that the support provided was what was detailed in the account 
closure notice.
Miss B says she attended a branch of RBS on two occasions between June and August 
where she was told it couldnt help. Miss B also says she called the number listed on the 
closure letter on numerous occasions.
Following receipt of the above Ive decided to issue a further provisional decision on 9 
February 2023. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached 
a final decision. Neither RBS or Miss B responded with any further information that hasnt 
been considered before. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
RBSs terms and conditions say that it can close an account by giving 60 days notice and 
that it is not obliged to provide a reason for its decision. 
I appreciate the inconvenience the closure of Miss Bs account has caused her in that it 
impacted her ability to continue to pay back her loan with it. But ultimately who RBS decides 
to provide its banking services to is a commercial decision and it isnt something for me to 
get involved with. So providing RBS gave the required 60 days notice of closing the account 
 and I can see it did this in its letter of 20 April 2022  I cant say RBS made a mistake. 
I dont think there is any question that following RBS issuing the notice of closure that things 
didnt go as they should have.  The background above summarises the relevant contents of the notice of closure letter. And 
following receipt of this letter I think it Miss B wouldve understood that her accounts were 
going to be closed and her overdraft needed to be repaid by 20 June 2022 and that Miss B 
needed to get in touch to confirm her loan repayment method.
But Miss B did neither of these things. And because Miss B didnt confirm her loan 
repayment method RBS continued to take payments from Miss Bs account to pay her loan. 
And as the account was closed the payments bounced back resulting in unpaid transaction 
charges of around £6.45. 
I accept Miss B continued to make her loan repayments from her new account and feels that 
RBS shouldnt have allowed the payments to continue to come out of her account. But this 
couldve been avoided if Miss B had got in contact with RBS as requested and confirmed her 
new repayment method. So Im not persuaded overall that the unpaid transaction fees RBS 
charged has let Miss B down to the extent compensation is warranted for this.   
Miss Bs account was closed and sent to recoveries with an outstanding balance of around 
£275 in September 2022. Miss B says she was never contacted by RBS regarding the 
repayment of this before it was sent to recoveries. RBS says the support it offered for the 
repayment of the overdraft was detailed in the notice of closure letter and has no record of 
any contact from Miss B in its customer event notes or debt manager. 
Miss B says she called the number in the letter on numerous occasions, but she hasnt given 
me any specific detail surrounding the conversations she had with RBS. And without RBS 
holding any records of contact from her I cant say when or how Miss B asked for support in 
repaying her overdraft. 
I accept the notice of closure letter says RBS may take formal action to recover outstanding 
debt. But I wouldve expected before it did so that RBS would contact Miss B notifying her of 
the action it planned to take.  
RBS says it sent Miss B a goodbye email but is unable to provide the contents of this email 
as they are not saved or say when it was sent. So, Im not persuaded Miss B was told that 
her outstanding debt was being sent to recoveries before this action was taken.
But I dont think this wouldve made a difference because Miss B was given 60 days notice 
that her account would be closed on 20 June and her overdraft facility would be withdrawn 
and that unarranged borrowing must be repaid. Despite this I havent seen any evidence that 
Miss B made any payments towards her outstanding overdraft debt or any attempt to set up 
a repayment plan or that she had the means to pay the outstanding amount before the 
account was sent to recoveries.  
So for this reason even though I think RBS couldve done more to support Miss B in 
repaying her overdraft following its decision to close her account, Im currently not going to 
ask RBS to do any more as I dont think it wouldve made a difference. 
On a final note, I understand that Miss B is under the impression that she hadnt missed a 
loan payment. But on review of her bank account and loan statements I can see that on 3 
May 2022 when her loan payment of £97.61 was due to go out she didnt have the available 
funds in her account to meet this payment and so it was returned and a payment of £98 was 
made on 9 May around a week later. Then in June the same thing happened and Miss Bs 
statements show the June payment of £100 was made on 27 June three weeks late. So 
although Miss B eventually made her loan payments they do appear from the statements to 
be late and possibly the reason adverse information is showing on her credit file regarding 
her loan.  But I havent seen a copy of Miss Bs credit report and my understanding is this particular 
issue is the subject of a separate complaint, so I wont be making a finding on this here. But 
RBS does have a duty to make sure what information it does report is factually accurate and 
I think it is worth noting while RBS can control what it reports to the credit reference 
agencies (CRA), it has no control over how the CRA present this information. 
So overall and having considered everything, although I think RBS couldve done some 
things better and I appreciate Miss B will be disappointed at the change in outcome, Im not 
persuaded RBS let Miss B down to the extent compensation is warranted and Im currently 
not minded to ask it to do anything more.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out above.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint against The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman