DRN-3857357
The complaint
Mr G complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited refused to accept a claim for critical 
illness under his life policy, after he was diagnosed with a rare condition.  
What happened
To summarise, in 2007, Mr G took out life insurance with Standard Life. The policy was to 
run for 15 years with a lump sum benefit of £50,000. The policy also paid out the lump sum 
in the event of the policy holder meeting one of the specified policy definitions of critical 
illness. 
In 2021, Mr G contacted Standard Life to make some enquiries about his policy. He 
explained he was due to have open heart surgery to remove a tumour. Mr G queried 
whether there were any changes to the definitions under his policy and was told that the 
terms applicable were those listed when he took out cover. Mr G was given some 
information about the limitations of his policy and advised to get back in contact if his 
situation changed.  
In January 2022, Mr G contacted Standard Life, wanting to claim on the policy. He was due 
to have surgery to remove the tumour. He also indicated he hoped thered be no issues 
regarding his claim, given the nature of the surgery, although he was aware his condition 
was not listed under the policy. Standard Life responded to Mr G with further information 
about the policys limitations and other potential claim routes.  
In March 2022, Mr G contacted Standard Life again. He confirmed his tumour was benign 
but argued for a common-sense approach to his claim, saying that open heart surgery for 
other reasons was covered and that some benign brain tumours were also covered. 
In response, Standard Life wrote to Mr G reiterating that it couldnt consider a claim for 
conditions or procedures that werent covered under his policy. 
Mr G complained, but Standard Life maintained its position. Mr G thought this was unfair, so 
brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She didnt think Standard Life had done anything wrong by not accepting Mr Gs 
claim, as the policy only covered specific listed conditions. 
As Mr G remained unhappy, his complaint has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I was sorry to hear of Mr Gs diagnosis and recent surgery and wish him well with his 
recovery. Having considered everything carefully, Im not upholding this complaint. I 
appreciate this will be unwelcome news for Mr G. Ill explain further, focusing on the points 
and evidence I consider material to my decision. 
Mr Gs policy says it will pay out where the insurer receives satisfactory proof the person 
covered has a critical illness, as defined in the policy provisions. The critical illnesses 
covered are listed with their specific requirements. 
Mr Gs condition isnt listed as a critical illness under his policy. Generally, critical illness 
benefit is designed to provide cover for the most common types of serious illness or 
condition and most commonly occurring serious events. Industry guidance from the 
Association of British Insurers proposes model wordings for insurers to use in critical illness 
policies. Aside from including mandatory conditions - stroke, heart attack, and cancer - 
insurers are free to decide which conditions and illnesses they will cover and, by absence 
from the policy terms, which they wont. I appreciate Mr G finds this very frustrating, 
particularly when Standard Life chose to cover some other benign tumours and his particular 
type of surgery when required in different circumstances. But Standard Life hasnt done 
anything wrong in not providing cover for, and consequently not accepting a claim for the 
condition Mr G had.
I do understand Mr G feels there are some inconsistencies in Standard Lifes approach and 
that other insurers mightve covered his circumstances or adopted a different approach to 
considering policy conditions. And I  know Mr G would like me to encourage Standard Life to 
reconsider his claim. However, I can only comment on his specific policy with Standard Life 
and look at whether it has treated him fairly. And I can only tell Standard Life to do 
something different, when I think its done something wrong in the first place. Thats not the 
case here. The cover Mr G bought was priced and accepted according to the 2007 terms. 
Standard Life was entitled to rely on those terms when assessing Mr Gs circumstances.
So for the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Once again, Im sorry 
this isnt the news Mr G was hoping for. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman