DRN-3199812
The complaint
Mr B complains about the delay caused by RCI Bank UK Limited (RCI) when opening a 
bank account. 
What happened
Mr B made an application to open a savings account with RCI. They required documents for 
verification purposes which Mr B sent the same day. Mr B wasnt then told about an issue 
with one of the documents he had submitted and only found this out when he called RCI. 
The document was resubmitted but Mr Bs account wasnt opened until over a week later. 
So, Mr B complained. 
RCI responded and explained they received Mr Bs supporting documents but didnt realise 
until a few days later that the document for proof of residency wasnt clear to read so it 
couldnt be accepted. They accepted Mr B wasnt told about this and only found out after he 
called RCI nearly two weeks after submitting the documents. RCI apologised for this and 
explained if there is a problem with supporting documents, its their usual procedure to get in 
touch with customers within five working days. They said, due to high volumes of 
applications they werent able to respond to applications within their usual timeframes. RCI 
confirm the account is now open but accept the opening process was lengthy. RCI said, to 
put things right, they had backdated interest to 5 May 2020 on each of the eight deposits 
received between 16 May and 27 May. RCI said 5 May is the date they received the 
documents required to open Mr Bs account. A representative for Mr B replied to say the 
interest should be backdated to 25 April as that is when the delays started as well as a 
payment of compensation due to the distress caused to Mr B who has autism.
RCI sent a further response and explained they had listened to the calls with Mr B but 
werent able to identify any occasion when Mr B made them aware of his autism or any 
reasonable adjustment he required. RCI said, if a customer makes them aware of any 
condition or vulnerability, they would usually request consent to place a note on the 
customers account. This is to ensure that any reasonable adjustments are made to help 
customers manage their accounts. RCI said, having listened to the calls, they were satisfied 
they had remained professional. They accepted that, them mentioning Mr Bs application 
could potentially be rejected would cause distress, however they felt their advisor was trying 
to be open and honest. They said, had the advisor known of Mr Bs autism and the distress 
this could potentially cause, she wouldve been able to adjust her approach and escalated 
the matter to prevent further worry. RCI said they had decided to backdate Mr Bs interest to 
24 April when his application was made to ensure no loss of interest. RCI accepted Mr B had 
experienced long wait times and apologised for the delay in opening Mr Bs account. So, 
they offered £25 compensation by way of an apology. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B. She thought RCIs offer to resolve the complaint 
was reasonable and she wouldnt be asking them to take any further steps. Mr B disagreed 
so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided RCIs offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr B 
will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. I can see 
representatives for Mr B have raised a number of points in response to our investigators 
view. I have carefully considered all points but if I havent commented on any specific point, 
its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
 
Account opening 
RCI say Mr Bs application was created on 24 April 2020. They say Mr B didnt pass RCIs 
electronic ID and Residency verification so further documents were requested the same day 
by email. Mr B calls RCI the same day and explains he has made an application for a 
savings account and had received an email asking for ID. He queries what he needs to send 
and the agent asks if he has a passport or driving licence and a council tax bill and confirms 
he can send a photo of any ID documents. Mr B asks, once the information is sent how long 
it will take for the bank account to be opened, the agent explains it can take up to five 
working days. Mr B sends an email the same day with a copy passport and council tax bill 
attached.
RCI say a response was sent to Mr B the following day to say this was acceptable. Mr B 
calls RCI on 28 April and explains he sent the additional information and he received an 
email to confirm it was received and had been passed to the account opening team. The 
agent explains they will contact Mr B once theyve reviewed all documents. Mr B queries 
how long it will take and the agent explains it can take about a week but it does vary from 
application to application, so theres no definite timescale but they are very busy and trying 
to work through everything as quick as they can. RCI say they then noticed there was an 
error with the council tax bill on 28 April in that it wasnt clear, so it was marked as non-
compliant. RCI say, at this point, Mr B shouldve been contacted but this didnt happen. 
Mr B calls RCI again on 5 May and queries the present position with his application. The 
agent explains there appears to be a problem with the council tax bill which was sent. Mr B 
explains he reduced the size of the document in order to send it and maybe that mightve 
made it unclear to see. The agent looks at the documents and explains its difficult to read 
and asks if Mr B is able to resend it so its clearer to read. Mr B queries whether, if he sends 
it now, he can call back to check its been received. The agent explains it can take two days 
to pick up emails. The agent explains the process needs to be completed by 7 May and they 
discuss the possibility of Mr B making a new application. Mr B explains he hasnt received 
any contact from RCI to say there was a problem with the document he submitted. The 
agent explains the documents go to a different department. Its agreed that Mr B will 
resubmit the document and the agent will make a note to confirm their conversation with Mr 
B and send an email to the relevant department to let them know Mr B will be resending the 
document. Following the call, Mr B sends RCI the council tax bill.  
Mr B calls RCI again the following day and refers to his call the day before and says he has 
now sent the council tax bill and wants confirmation whether its been received. The agent 
explains they will have received Mr Bs email and once its been processed they will be back 
in touch with him. Mr B says he was told that tomorrow would be the deadline by which he 
needs to submit all information relevant to his application otherwise theres a risk it could be 
declined and he would have to reapply. The agent then checks the system and confirms Mr 
Bs email has been received. RCI send Mr B an email the following day to confirm receipt of 
his email but the account wasnt opened until 15 May. 
Ive looked at the service given to Mr B. The key facts about the complaint arent in dispute. 
RCI have admitted they got things wrong when they didnt contact Mr B to let him know the 
proof of residency document he had submitted wasnt clear. And, there was delay in opening Mr Bs account. The only issue I have to decide for this part of the complaint is whether their 
offer to put things right is fair and reasonable.
RCI say due to Mr B not passing their automatic identity and residency checks, he needed to 
submit additional documentation. For this reason, in ordinary circumstances, the account 
would never have been opened for Mr B by 25 April. RCI say accounts are normally opened 
manually 3-5 working days after they receive all of the necessary documentation. And, 
interest would only normally apply from the date of receipt. RCI say they agreed to backdate 
the interest from all eight deposits that were received over 11 days  between 16 to 27 May 
 to 5 May before then agreeing to backdate further to 24 April. RCI say, this action not only 
put Mr B back in the position he wouldve been in had there been no error, but it went further 
to put Mr B in a better financial position than he would otherwise have been in had the error 
not occurred. RCI say, in addition to this, they also agreed to pay an additional £25.     
I think its right that RCI should compensate Mr B for the worry, frustration and 
inconvenience caused by their poor service. Mr B understandably felt he had provided all 
information on 24 April and was then expecting confirmation from RCI that his account was 
open. Its clear Mr B was anxious about this as he makes phone calls to chase the status of 
his application. And, its only through one of those calls that Mr B discovers theres a 
problem with a document he sent. Mr B promptly resends this and despite receiving 
confirmation the resubmitted document is clear the account still isnt opened until 10 days 
after Mr B resent the document. And, I think its important to add that, even after the 
document is resubmitted, Mr B makes two further calls to check whether the document is ok. 
So, its clear Mr B was becoming increasingly anxious about the account opening. And, Mr B 
was clearly worried when being told by an agent there was a possibility the window for the 
account application could close. Mr Bs email of 15 May to complain about the service shows 
hes further frustrated at the length of time things are taking. 
When considering a fair and reasonable remedy here, Ive looked to see what shouldve 
happened. RCI say, if theres a problem with supporting documents, its their usual 
procedure to get in touch with customers within five working days. The information here 
shows RCI discovered a problem with Mr Bs document on 28 April  so I think its 
reasonable to say RCI shouldve notified Mr B at this point knowing that the application 
window would be closing in just over a week. RCI have offered Mr B £25 compensation. But, 
in addition to this they have backdated the interest to 24 April. So, the total offered to Mr B is 
£80.53. I can see a representative for Mr B has responded to our service following our 
investigators view. They say the full £80.53 shouldnt be treated as compensation  and 
only the £25 has been awarded for compensation which isnt reasonable. I agree the full 
amount shouldnt be treated as compensation. But, while any interest earned on an account 
is something a customer would be entitled to in line with their contractual arrangement with a 
bank, in this particular case there is a part of this interest which represents a remedy for the 
service issues. 
RCI say, accounts are normally opened manually 3-5 working days after they receive all of 
the necessary documentation. And, interest would also normally apply from the date of 
receipt. In this case, RCI discovered the issue with Mr Bs document on 28 April. Given that 
Mr B has always been prompt in sending information to RCI, I believe, had they told him 
about the issue, he wouldve resent the document the same day. This means RCI wouldve 
had all necessary documentation by 28 April. In view of their timescales for opening 
accounts being 3-5 working days, this means the earliest Mr Bs account wouldve been 
opened is 1 May. 
RCI though have backdated interest on eight deposits into Mr Bs account, all of which were 
deposited after 1 May. These eight deposits were made between 16 May to 27 May. So, for 
the deposit on 16 May, Mr B wouldve started earning interest on this from that day  however the interest has been backdated to 24 April so Mr B has benefitted from additional 
interest.    
One point I will make is that, while I do believe part of the backdating of interest represents a 
remedy, I acknowledge Mr B couldnt make any deposits into his account until it was 
opened, and this wasnt until 15 May. So, while it appears the backdating of interest for the 
deposit on 16 May covers a three week period (from 24 April to 16 May)  Mr B couldnt 
have made a deposit until at least 15 May in any event, and this was through no fault of his 
own. But, even taking this into account, it doesnt change my decision that part of the 
backdating of interest represents a remedy. I say this because, using this same example, Mr 
B makes this deposit one day after the account opening. So, using this same timescale, had 
the account been opened on 1 May  as Ive concluded above  then Mr B wouldve made 
this deposit a day later, on 2 May. So, backdating the interest to this date wouldve put Mr B 
in the position he wouldve been in had the error not occurred. But, backdating it from 2 May 
to 24 April  that period represents a remedy. And, in the case of the deposit on 27 May, the 
period is greater. So, this deposit is made 12 days after the account opening. So, using the 
same analysis Ive applied in the previous example, had the account been opened on 1 May, 
this deposit, if made 12 days later, wouldve started generating interest on 13 May. So, the 
interest awarded in the period from 13 May to 27 May returns Mr B to the position he 
wouldve been in. But, the interest awarded for the period between 24 April to 12 May 
represents a remedy. So, I think there is a remedy in the backdating of interest as well as the 
£25 offered. And, I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Reasonable adjustments 
I can see a representative for Mr B says, prior to the opening of the account, they made RCI 
aware of Mr Bs needs to ensure they could facilitate this and make any reasonable 
adjustments. RCI say if a customer contacts RCI for information purposes before an account 
is opened, they would provide the information requested and explain what reasonable 
adjustments can be made. RCI say, as this would have been for information purposes only, 
and before an account was opened, they cant agree this would constitute making RCI 
aware of Mr Bs needs. RCI agree they were told about Mr Bs condition in an email on 4 
June but there was no request for any reasonable adjustments. And, this is why they asked 
for details of any reasonable adjustments Mr B would like them to make.    
     
I can see a representative for Mr B informs RCI about Mr Bs autism on 4 June when 
replying to RCIs complaint response. RCI then explain they werent made aware of this or of 
any reasonable adjustments. RCI then ask Mr B to let them know of any reasonable 
adjustment hed like them to make. Ive listened to the calls between Mr B and RCI as well 
as the emails sent during the account opening process, but I havent identified any occasion 
where Mr B made RCI aware of his condition or requesting any reasonable adjustments prior 
to 4 June. 
Mr Bs representative who has responded to our investigators view says RCI accept they 
were aware of Mr Bs autism during the application process. But, the information Ive seen 
doesnt suggest this. RCI have described the explanation they would give if a customer 
made them aware of any conditions requiring reasonable adjustments. RCI arent saying 
they were specifically told about Mr Bs autism and any reasonable adjustments during the 
application process  or at any point prior to 4 June. And, Ive seen no evidence which 
suggests they were informed. 
I dont doubt that a conversation might well have taken place prior to 4 June and, while RCI 
say such a conversation  - if it had taken place  wouldve been for information purposes, I 
havent seen any evidence of this conversation making RCI aware of the support and 
reasonable adjustments Mr B will need during the application process. In summary, I am sorry to learn about the impact the account opening had on Mr B and 
agree RCI got things wrong. I have considered Mr Bs testimony and what he feels RCI 
should do to put things right. I have to look at what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and what RCI knew during their handling of Mr Bs account opening. And, for 
the reasons Ive explained above, I think the remedy theyve offered is reasonable.   
My final decision
RCI Bank UK Limited have already made an offer to backdate the interest on Mr Bs account 
to 24 April 2020 and pay £25 compensation  a total of £80.53 - to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that RCI Bank UK Limited should pay £80.53 to Mr B, if they havent done 
so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman