DRN-4145557
The complaint
Mr W complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles Card was irresponsible in its lending to 
him.
What happened
Mr W was provided with a credit card in September 2020 (card 1) with an initial credit limit of 
£900. The credit limit was increased on three occasions (March 2021, July 2021 and April 
2022) increasing his credit limit to £4,150. In October 2021, Mr W was then provided with 
another credit card under a different brand but from the same lender (card 2). This had an 
initial credit limit of £2,500 which was increased to £3,750 in May 2022.
Mr W says he understands that it wasnt unreasonable that he was provided with card 1 with 
the initial £900 credit limit. However, he says that he quickly made three cash withdrawals 
and in October 2020 he contacted NewDay to say he was potentially a vulnerable consumer 
as he had an issue with gambling. He says that given the information he had provided and 
his use of the card further lending in the form of credit limit increases, and a further credit 
card shouldnt have been provided. Mr W says the lending has put him into a cycle of debt 
and caused him stress and anxiety. 
NewDay issued a final response to Mr W in August 2022. It provided information about the 
checks carried out as part of the application process for each card and the checks before the 
credit limit increases were applied. Based on its investigation at that time it didnt uphold 
Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W referred his complaint to this service. NewDay reconsidered Mr Ws complaint and 
noted that Mr W had contacted it in October 2020 asking for a freeze on cash transactions. It 
didnt have a recording of the call but accepted that the information provided and Mr Ws use 
of card 1 should have raised concerns. Based on this, it said while the initial provision of 
card 1 was reasonable, credit limit increases shouldnt have been applied and card 2 
shouldnt have been provided. Based on this it offered to refund any late, overlimit and cash 
fees along with interest charged on the increased balance following the first increase on 
card 1. And refund all interest and charges applied since inception on card 2. 
Our investigator put NewDays offer to Mr W. Mr W didnt accept the offer. He wanted further 
details of the refund calculations and confirmation that adverse information would be 
removed from his credit file. Our investigator issued a view in February 2023. She agreed 
that NewDay shouldnt have applied the credit limit increases to card 1 and shouldnt have 
provided card 2. She recommended that NewDay rework card 1 and refund all interest, fees, 
charges and insurances (not already refunded) that were applied to balances above £900. 
She said all adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file after 31st March 2021 
regarding this account should be removed once any outstanding balance on the account had 
been cleared. 
NewDay noted the view was in line with its offer aside from the points regarding Mr Ws 
credit file. It said that after the refunds Mr W would still have significant balances outstanding 
on both cards and that he was in payment arrangements for these. It said it was correctly 
reporting the payment arrangements on Mr Ws credit file.
Mr W asked for an ombudsman to issue a decision on his complaint. He specifically noted 
that he wanted a ruling on both credit cards and evidence provided of the refund 
calculations. He asked that the outstanding balances on his accounts be written off as he 
had made NewDay aware that he was struggling with gambling, yet it increased the amount 
it lent to him. Following this NewDay provided further details of its refund calculations that 
Mr W accepted. However, he was still concerned that adverse information  noting a special 
arrangement - was being recorded on his credit file. He said that NewDay failed to protect 
him as a vulnerable customer when he made it aware of his gambling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has complained that NewDay was irresponsible in its lending to him and failed to 
protect him after he informed it about his gambling. 
Card 1 was provided in September 2020. At this time, I accept that NewDay wasnt aware of 
Mr Ws issues with gambling and so I have considered the checks it carried out before card 
1, within an initial credit limit of £900 was provided and whether these were proportionate. 
Before lending, NewDay gathered information about Mr Ws income and carried out a credit 
check. This showed that Mr W had three historic defaults totalling £9,300 with the most 
recent being recorded 28 months previously. He had no public records and no accounts in 
arrears. Mr W was recorded as having an annual income of £42,000 and unsecured debt of 
£42,200. Mr W had £865 in payday loans. Based on this information it appears that Mr W 
had experienced problems managing his money in the past and was still using payday loans. 
While I find this could have raised concerns about providing Mr W with further credit, as he 
had no accounts in arrears and noting the credit limit provided compared to his income, I do 
not find in this case I have enough evidence to say that card 1, with the initial £900 credit 
limit shouldnt have been provided.
NewDay has accepted that it shouldnt have provided further lending to Mr W following his 
call in October 2020 when he asked for a freeze on his cash transactions and noting his use 
of card 1 to that time. A copy of the call hasnt been provided but given the comments 
NewDay has made about Mr Ws request and noting Mr W made three cash withdrawals in 
the first month of having card 1, I agree that the information available should have raised 
concerns. Mr W has said he explained he told NewDay he had a gambling problem, I find it 
reasonable to accept his testimony. Given this I agree NewDay shouldnt have provided any 
additional lending after October 2020. 
NewDay has offered to remove all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied to balances above the initial £900 credit limit on card 1 and 
all fees, charges, insurances and interest on card 2. I find this reasonable and it has 
provided its calculations and Mr W has agreed with these.
Following the refunds, NewDay has said that both card accounts will still have significant 
balances outstanding. Mr W requested that his outstanding balance be written off. I 
understand the points Mr W has raised about NewDay not providing the protection it should 
have after he informed it of his gambling problem. But as Mr W had the benefit of the money, 
I think it is reasonable to require him to repay this and I note Mr W did use his cards for retail 
spend as well as cash withdrawals. 
So, while I understand why Mr W feels that NewDay should do more to assist him, I find the refunds that have been offered are reasonable. As there will still be outstanding balances on 
Mr Ws cards I cannot say that NewDay is wrong to record the payment arrangement at this 
time. However, given I do not find that the credit limit increases on card 1 should have been 
provided and that card 2 shouldnt have been provided, once the outstanding balances have 
been repaid, NewDay should remove all adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file 
regarding card 1, from the date of the first credit limit increase and all adverse information 
regarding card 2 from Mr Ws credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd should as it offered (if this hasnt already happened):
Rework card 1 account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not 
already refunded) that have been applied to balances above £900. 
Refund all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already refunded) that have 
been applied to card 2. 
NewDay Ltd has said that there will still be outstanding balances on Mr Ws cards once the 
refunds have been applied. In regard to Mr Ws credit file, NewDay Ltd should:
once the remaining balance on card 1 has been repaid, remove all adverse 
information recorded on Mr Ws credit file after 31st March 2021 regarding this 
account (including the payment arrangement). 
Once the remaining balance on card 2 has been repaid, remove all adverse 
information recorded on Mr Ws credit file regarding this account (including the 
payment arrangement).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman