DRN-3845210
The complaint
Mr B says Zopa Bank Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Zopa operates the lending platform which gave Mr B a 36-month loan for £4,000 on 4 
January 2022. The monthly repayments were £175.47 and the total repayable was 
£6,316.97. Mr B repaid the loan in full on 3 February 2022.
Mr B says at no point did Zopa check the affordability of the loan for him, he had other card 
and loan debts, plus a mortgage. He was only able to repay this loan due to informal 
borrowing from family, and he resorted to gambling to try to clear his debts. This impacted 
his relationship and his mental health. He wants the interest he paid of £63.99 to be 
refunded, plus compensation.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said Zopas checks were not
proportionate but it did not seem better checks would have shown Mr B was unlikely to be 
able to sustainably repay the loan.
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said as the main earner he was 
struggling to cover all bills and manage his addiction to excess spending, including 
gambling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Zopa arranged the loan for Mr B required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an 
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Zopa had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr B. In other words, it wasnt enough for Zopa to simply think about the likelihood
of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the repayments on Mr B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult
to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Zopa did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr B. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Zopa complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Bs loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Zopa make a fair lending decision?
- did Zopa act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Zopa asked for some information from Mr B before it approved the loan. It asked
for details of his income and checked this with a third party. It also checked his credit file to 
understand his credit history and existing credit commitments. It asked about the purpose of 
the loan, which was debt consolidation. From these checks combined Zopa concluded Mr B 
had enough monthly disposable income to afford to repay the loan.
I dont think these checks were proportionate in the circumstances of this case. Mr B was
agreeing to repay a loan over a three-year period, and Zopa knew from its credit check that 
Mr B had taken out two other loans recently and had unsecured debt of around £20,000. So 
he had to spend a not insignificant portion of his salary each month to service this debt, as 
well as maintaining monthly mortgage payments of £769. So after its initial checks I think 
Zopa ought to have carried out a fuller financial review before deciding to lend.
I have looked at Mr Bs bank statements from the three months prior to his application. I am 
not saying Zopa had to do this but its one way it could have better understood Mr Bs 
finances. They are for Mr Bs personal account but he has confirmed the high-value transfers 
out were to his joint account to cover his mortgage and bills. So I am satisfied they fairly 
represent his financial position. There are a lot of cash withdrawals so I cannot know the 
nature of a significant part of Mr Bs expenditure, but overall I dont think the statements 
conclusively show the loan was most likely to not be sustainably affordable for him. Ill 
explain why. 
He used his overdraft facility but just occasionally, not persistently, and only really over the 
Christmas period. There were none of the other typical signs of financial stress such as 
payday loans or returned direct debit payments. There are some gambling transactions but 
they are infrequent until December 2021 when they did increase, but this was following a 
high-value win and so at that stage I dont think that could be taken as a conclusive indicator 
of financial instability. In addition Mr B had told Zopa the loan was for debt consolidation. 
Overall, I dont think Zopa ought to have made a different lending decision had it completed 
better checks. To be clear, I am not saying Mr B wasnt struggling and relying on family as 
he describes, but I think the level of financial review that would have been needed to 
discover that would not have been proportionate for this loan.It follows I dont think Zopa was wrong to arrange the loan for Mr B. And I havent seen any 
evidence that Zopa acted unfairly towards Mr B in some other way.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman