DRN-3863308
The complaint
Mr R complains that due to errors caused by Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Halifax Share 
Dealing Limited  HSDL) an in-specie transfer he had requested was not promptly actioned 
in full.
To resolve this complaint Mr R says he, would consider an offer of £1,000. 
What happened
I understand that in July 2021, Mr R contacted HSDL to request an in-specie transfer to 
another platform provider. Shortly after he had made the request Mr R cancelled it as he was 
concerned about the length of time the transfer would take.
In early April 2022, HSDL received a new in-specie transfer request, made on Mr Rs behalf 
by another platform provider. The stock was transferred from HSDL to Mr Rs new platform 
provider on 21 April 2022. 
On 25 April 2022, Mr Rs new platform provider contacted HSDL again. It said Mr R had 
informed it that HSDL had not transferred all his stock. HSDL then identified that, due to an 
error on its part, it had left the stock that Mr R had wanted to transfer in July 2021 
ringfenced. As this was the case it had not been included in the April 2022 in-specie transfer. 
I understand that only stock Mr R had bought after July 2021 had been transferred. HSDL 
removed the ringfence and this stock was then transferred to Mr Rs new platform provider. 
The records I have seen show that the stock settled with the new platform provider on 5 May 
2022.
 Mr R complained to HSDL. He said that the stock market had fallen during the period his in-
specie transfer had been delayed. He said he would have sold the stock and then bought it 
back at a lower price, but for the delays caused by HSDL. To put matters right he said he 
wanted HSDL to pay him £3,200, which he said was the loss he had suffered as a result of 
the delay in carrying out the transfer.
HSDL apologised for its error. In order to put matters right it offered to pay Mr R £50 for the 
trouble and upset its poor service had caused him. But it said it was not willing to 
compensate Mr R for any gain he felt he would have made by selling and buying back stock. 
It accepted that Mr R wasnt able to sell the stock online, once the transfer process had been 
initiated, but it said he could have used its telephone dealing service to sell the stock before 
it was transferred to his new platform provider. 
Mr R was not satisfied with HSDLs response and referred his complaint to this service. He 
said his online account with HSDL had been closed, and he was not told that he could use 
HSDLs telephone dealing service after he had instructed the transfer.
Our investigator said she didnt think HSDL needed to do more than it had already offered to 
resolve Mr Rs complaint. She noted that the message Mr R had received, when he tried to 
log on to his online account, prompted him to telephone HSDL if he needed more 
information, but Mr R had chosen not to do so. She also noted that Section 8.2 of HSDLs 
terms and conditions set out:
If the online service is unavailable or you receive an error message, you should use the 
telephone service to place or confirm an order.
Mr R did not accept our investigators view. He reiterated that he felt HSDL should 
compensate him as it had delayed transferring part of his stock, and it had not told him that 
he could sell the stock via its telephone dealing service.
He said he would be willing to accept £1,000 to settle his complaint and would consider 
taking legal action if his complaint was not upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that HSDL made an error. It left the stock that Mr R had asked it to 
transfer in July 2021 ringfenced, after he had cancelled the transfer request. As a result, this 
stock was not included in the initial in-specie transfer in April 2022.
What is in dispute is whether the redress HSDL has offered to pay Mr R is fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having carefully considered this matter I think the offer 
HSDL has made is fair. Ill explain why.
After the in-specie transfer had been instructed in April 2022, Mr R logged onto his share 
dealing account with HSDL and received the following message:
This account has been closed. You are no longer able to use this account. If you require 
more information regarding this account, please contact us.
Mr R says he also used HSDLs webchat  and was then told the account was closed and 
at that point the error by [HSDL] was discovered, at no point was I offered did I want to do an 
transaction.
I have reviewed the webchat Mr R had with HSDL in the evening on 27 April 2022. Initially 
Mr R asked for an update on the transfer. The representative said the transfer of the shares 
that had been ringfenced had been logged that day. Mr R then said:
YOU CAN REGISTER THIS AS A FORMAL COMPLAINT BECAUSE LLOYDS NEVER 
LIFTED THE RINGFENCE LAST JULY AND THIS HAS ONLY JUST BEEN SPOTTED IT IS 
CAUSING ME TO LOSE MONEY THROUGH THE NEW DELAY NOT BEING ABLE TO 
TRADE.
When asked what resolution he would like to resolve this matter Mr R said:
FOR THE TFR TO COMPLETED IN EXTREEMLY FAST TIME NOT 2 WEEKS FROM 
NOW, I AM OUT OF THE COUNTRY NEXT WEEK AND WANT THESE TFRS DONE BY 
MY RETURN IF NOT THEN I WILL BE SEEKING THE FINANCIAL LOSS AS EXPLAINED 
SHOULD I HAVE DECIDED TO SELL AFTER THE DATE THAT THE OTHER SHARES 
WERE TRANSFERRED
Our investigator asked Mr R to provide this service with any records or evidence that 
showed he had tried to sell the stock in question. Mr R said:No shares have been sold because the ft index on 27/4/22 was 7425 and even today it is 
only 7188... if I had had the chance to sell, which I would have had the chance of if the 
transfer had been done correctly, on 20/4/22 when the index was 7629 I would be ok but I 
was deprived of being able to do that through Lloyds incompetence in not lifting the 
ringfence. The shares have still not been sold as the market is still too low.
Mr R also said he had wanted to sell the stock because of the market was dropping, but I 
was unable to because the ringfence had not been lifted. 
He said he did not telephone HSDL to instruct it to sell the stock because the screen said 
the account was closed an I was no longer able to use the account, it was at this point [on] 
Apr 27 that a webchat was started.
I am mindful that Mr R says he wanted to sell the stock on 20 April 2022, but based on the 
information I have seen, it would not have been possible for him to sell the stock until at least 
21 April 2022, even if HSDL had not made the ringfencing error, as the initial in-specie stock 
transfer did not settle with his new platform provider until 21 April 2022. In view of this I cant 
reasonably agree that the ringfence on some of his stock prevented Mr R from selling the 
stock on 20 April 2022.
If Mr R had wanted to sell the stock as the market was falling, it is not clear to me why he 
chose not to sell the stock that had been transferred to his new platform provider, once it 
was allocated to his account, and he was able to trade. 
When determining complaints, I am required to be fair to both parties. I cannot reasonably 
find that Mr R would have sold the ringfenced stock  and then bought it back at a lower 
price - in the absence of anything to support Mr Rs claim. I am mindful that Mr R has not 
been able to provide this service with anything to show that he tried to sell the ringfenced 
stock, or that he sold the stock that was transferred on 21 April 2022. I think that, as Mr R set 
out in his webchat with HSDL on 27 April 2022, he is pursuing this claim with the benefit of 
hindsight. I note that he said:
I WILL BE SEEKING THE FINANCIAL LOSS AS EXPLAINED SHOULD I HAVE DECIDED 
TO SELL AFTER THE DATE THAT THE OTHER SHARES WERE TRANSFERRED
I am also mindful that if Mr R had telephoned HSDL, as the message he received when he 
tried to log onto his HSDL account prompted him to do, he would have been able to trade up 
until the holdings were in the process of being re-registered to his new platform provider. 
HSDL has confirmed that it would have allowed him to trade during the transfer.
I note that Mr R has also referred to a screen shot that said:
During the transfer there could be a period of time when your investments or cash may not 
be accessible, therefore you may not be able to act on market movements.
I am satisfied that this warning referred to the period when the stock was being re-registered 
with the new platform provider as it makes clear that there would only be a limited period 
during the transfer that your investments or cash may not be accessible  not the entire 
transfer period.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr R was hoping for, but in the absence of 
anything to support his claim that he would have sold the ringfenced stock, but for HSDLs 
error, I cannot reasonably uphold this complaint.
I note that Mr R has said he will take legal action to recover what he considers to be his losses if HSDL does not offer £1,000 to resolve this complaint. Mr R is, of course, free to 
pursue this matter in the courts if he is not satisfied with this decision.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. I 
simply leave it to Mr R to decide if he now wishes to accept the offer Lloyds Bank PLC has 
made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman