DRN-1712711
 
complaint
Mr C says Allianz Insurance plc (Allianz) mis-sold him a regular monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr C took PPI with a charge card in 1995. The PPI was sold to Mr C by another firm but 
Allianz has accepted responsibility for this complaint about the mis-sale of PPI. So I will refer 
to the seller as Allianz to make things easier. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld but Mr C didnt agree. So, the 
complaint comes to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
To get the cover Mr C had to tick a box for it. Had he not wanted the cover he could have left 
this unticked. And Mr C has signed the application form to show he agreed with its contents. 
So on balance I think that Mr C chose to take the policy and did so knowing he had a choice 
about it, even if he cant remember that now, many years later. 
Mr C told us that he felt under pressure to say yes to the PPI. I have no doubt this 
represents his best recollection of the events of the sale. But this is a subjective area and I 
have not been presented with any evidence that supports this testimony. So, having 
considered the above, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that Mr C only 
took the policy because he was put under pressure to do so.
Whilst Mr C thought he was advised to take the cover, Allianz have told us the sale was 
made with no advice given to Mr C. The application form includes the following, We strongly 
recommend you take cover by ticking the box.  This is a general recommendation and that 
part of the postal application form is pre-printed. Theres no evidence from the time of the 
sale of a bespoke recommendation being made to Mr C, based on his personal 
circumstances. So, it seems most likely that Allianz didnt recommend that Mr C take the 
PPI, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. Instead Allianz had to provide 
information that was clear and not misleading so that Mr C could decide about the policy for 
himself. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been - including the information about the cost of the policy. But based on what I know about Mr Cs circumstances, I dont think better information would have stopped him from 
buying it.
I say this because Mr C was eligible for the policy, and whilst there were some things the 
policy wouldnt cover, it doesnt look as though any of those things applied to Mr C at the 
time the PPI was taken, such as pre-existing medical conditions. 
And I think Mr C could have found the policy useful. I say this because Mr C told us that 
whilst his sick pay was good, he had no other means that he could have relied on if anything 
went wrong with his health, or if he lost his job, with its benefits. The policy could have paid 
15% of the balance until the claim stopped or the balance was repaid, whichever occurred 
first, and this would have been in addition to Mr Cs sick pay. And the PPI would also have 
provided cover if Mr C lost his job. So, having considered all of this, I think the policy could 
have been useful to him. 
So I dont think that Mr C lost out as a result of anything Allianz might have done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Allianz Insurance plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7July2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman