DRN-1911892
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a 
monthly premium mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N were sold a MPPI policy in 2005 during a meeting. 
The benefit of the policy was split equally between Mr and Mrs N so it would have provided 
50% of the total monthly benefit if either Mr or Mrs N were off sick or lost their job, for up to 
12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs N didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ns case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs N will be disappointed by this outcome but I will now explain why I have reached this 
decision.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs N were eligible for the policy. Based on Mr 
and Mrs Ns age and employment (amongst other things) at the time of the sale, Im satisfied 
they were eligible.
BoS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs N that the MPPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to Mr and Mrs Ns account. Mr and Mrs N say that they 
were not aware they had been sold MPPI and just signed wherever they were told to sign. 
They say MPPI wasnt discussed and that it is not something they needed as they had 
sufficient existing means of repayment in place.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought about what Mr and   
Mrs N have told us and have considered the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more likely to have happened during the sale.
The documents and records I have been provided with make it clear that a discussion did 
take place about MPPI. The mortgage offer made it clear that MPPI was not compulsory and 
the only insurance that was set out as being compulsory was buildings insurance. I also 
note BoS records which show that Mrs N made calls to them to discuss and make 
amendments to their MPPI policy. 
So all in all, while I appreciate what Mr and Mrs N have told us, I think its more likely that Mr 
and Mrs N were made aware that they were being sold MPPI, that it was optional and that it 
was applied to the account because they chose to take it out.
BoS accept they advised Mr and Mrs N to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was 
suitable for them. I dont know if BoS took all the steps they should have to check if the MPPI 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs N but I do think the policy was suitable for them. I say this 
because:
- The MPPI would have paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs Ns employee sick pay and 
would have been particularly useful when the sick pay reduced to half. It would also 
have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay they may have been entitled to. Mr 
and Mrs N have also told us they had savings. However, these savings wouldnt have 
meant the MPPI was unsuitable for them. This is because the savings may no longer 
have been available at the point the need arose. Even if they were still available then 
they could have been used to pay for essential living expenses while the MPPI took 
care of the mortgage repayments.  
- Mr and Mrs N dont appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which 
would have made it difficult for them to make a successful claim under the policy.
- Although I note the comments Mr and Mrs N make, I have not seen any evidence to 
suggest that MPPI was unaffordable for them.
- Mr and Mrs N could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer wanted or needed it.
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs N, BoS also had to give them 
clear information about the MPPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs N wasnt as clear as it should have been 
but this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr and Mrs N this 
MPPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman