DRN-3614084
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax (Halifax) marked his credit file.
What happened
Mr R had a current account with Halifax. On 1 July 2021, he paid £181.00 for some work on 
his car and this amount was debited to his Halifax account on 2 July 2021. He raised a 
dispute with Halifax and a dispute refund was credited to his account on 5 July 2021. Halifax 
challenged the garage but the chargeback wasnt agreed, and Halifax recharged £181.00 to 
Mr Rs account on 27 September 2021. This created an overdraft of £180.99. Halifax marked 
Mr Rs credit file with late payments in October 2021 and November 2021. Halifax wrote off 
the balance in January 2022. 
Mr R complained. He said the late payment markers were unfair and should be removed. He 
said that compensation of £400 should be paid for the poor service he received.
Halifax said theyd dealt with the chargeback claim correctly. The garage had provided 
evidence that theyd provided the service that Mr R paid for, and so Halifax debited his 
account. Halifax said the relationship with Mr R had broken down and therefore they agreed 
to refund the money to his account and closed it. 
Mr R brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Halifax acted reasonably. The 
chargeback service doesnt lead to a guaranteed refund, and the card issuers (like Halifax in 
this case) have strict guidelines to follow when trying to get money refunded under the 
chargeback scheme. She said that Halifax had followed the scheme rules but the 
chargeback was unsuccessful. Halifax wrote to Mr R on 23 September 2021 to say so, and 
£181 was re-debited from his account on 27 September 2021. The balance on the account 
was later repaid by Halifax, but Mr Rs credit file had been marked  which she felt was 
reasonable.
Mr R asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. (continued)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues here:
- Did Halifax handle Mr Rs chargeback claim correctly and therefore were they entitled 
to re-debit his account with £181.
- Were Halifax correct in marking Mr Rs credit file with late payment markers.
Chargeback request: Ive looked at what happened. Halifax tried to get the amount refunded 
by the garage. They challenged the garage twice. The garage refused to refund the money 
under the chargeback scheme because Mr R had supplied the parts himself. Whatever the 
rights and wrongs of the service provided by the garage  it is a fact that the chargeback 
scheme is essentially a voluntary one, and a customer (in this case, Mr R) doesnt have a 
guarantee of a refund. And I can see that while Halifax did try to get the money refunded, 
ultimately, this failed. But Halifax did all they could to get the money back  I have seen the 
notes of what they did. Halifax then wrote to Mr R on 23 September 2021 to say the claim 
had failed.
So  Halifax dealt with Mr Rs chargeback claim correctly. And therefore  the debt on the 
account of £180.99 was also correct.
Credit file: As a result of the failed chargeback, Halifax re-debited Mr Rs account with £180 
on 27 September 2021  which they were entitled to do. This led to an overdraft of £180.99. 
I reviewed the letters that Halifax sent to Mr R  because its important that Halifax were 
clear with him about what was to happen. 
On 5 November 2021, Halifax wrote to Mr R and said the balance was £180.99 debit without 
a limit. The letter also asked Mr R to make a payment for £180.99 as soon as possible 
We need to let you know that we may have to tell the CRAs about your overdraft balance. If 
they lower your credit score, it could make it more difficult for you to borrow from banks, 
building societies and other credit providers
On 23 November 2021, the balance was still the same and Halifax wrote to Mr R with a 
formal demand for payment. The letter said This is a Formal Demand to repay the full 
overdraft amount of £180.99 in the next 30 days from the date of this letter. If you dont 
(pay the amount off) we: Will close your account two months from when you receive this 
letterMay update your credit file with a default. This would stay on your file for six years 
and may make it harder for you to borrow money in the future.
On 30 December 2021, Halifax wrote again and said: We havent received a payment so far 
to bring your account into credit or within your arranged overdraft limit. This means theres 
£180.99 owed. We need to let you know that we may have to tell the CRAs about your 
overdraft balance. If they lower your credit score, it could be more difficult for you to borrow 
from banks, building societies and other credit providers.
And so  Mr R was advised about the position on his account and warned that Halifax would 
mark his credit file because of the debt. The debt was outstanding from September 2021 
through to January 2022  when the account was closed. Halifax, like all banks, have an 
obligation to report factually correct information to credit reference agencies. And therefore  
I think it was reasonable for Halifax to mark Mr Rs credit file in the way they did.
In the end, Halifax decided that the banking relationship had broken down and repaid the 
overdraft  so Mr R effectively got his money back in respect of the repair. Halifax closed his 
account.
In summary, having looked at what happened here, I think it was reasonable for Halifax to 
mark Mr Rs credit file. And I wont be asking them to do anything here.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman