DRN-3540902
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with MetLife Europe d.a.c because it wont pay his claim. 
What happened
Mr R injured his shoulder in May 2018. He was signed off work by his GP who initially 
thought Mr R had broken his clavicle (collar Bone). Mr R had accident insurance with MetLife 
and, in the event he met the policy terms by breaking his collar bone, it wouldve paid a lump 
sum benefit. However, Mr Rs claim was declined.
MetLife said there was no medical evidence to say that Mr R had broken any bones. And so, 
it declined his claim on that basis. 
Our investigator said that MetLife had declined the claim fairly, because Mr R didnt meet the 
policy terms. She accepted that he was too unwell to work owing to shoulder and back pain, 
but ultimately found that this wasnt something his policy provided cover for.
Mr R didnt accept her findings. In summary, he said that her investigation was biased 
towards him and that she acted unfairly by declining his claim. Mr R also said that shed 
acted unfairly by allowing MetLife too much time to respond to information requests. He 
believes his claim is payable and would also like compensation because the claim, from his 
point of view, was declined incorrectly. And so, its for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold for the same reasons already explained by our 
investigator. To be clear, I agreed with the outcome reached and I thought her reasoning 
was accurate and fair. Ill go on to explain why, but before I do, I wanted to acknowledge that 
I didnt find any evidence to support Mr Rs claim that shed treated him unfairly. I also found 
that shed not allowed MetLife an unreasonable amount of time to respond to her information 
requests. 
Mr Rs policy will only pay out if hed broken a major bone. The policy terms say;
What does my policy cover?
In the event of you suffering an accident, subject to the policy terms and conditions, the
policy provides a lump sum for the following insured events:
 a broken bone, which can be evidenced by an x-ray or other suitable clinical diagnosis;
 accidental permanent injuries;
 accidental total permanent disablement which occurs within 24 months of the accident;
 death within 12 months of the date of the accident.
In addition, the policy will also provide:
 a daily benefit if you are admitted to a UK hospital for over 24 hours: - as a result of an
accident, or - as a result of sickness if you are admitted to hospital after you have had your
policy for at least 12 months
The policy further defines a major broken bone as:
Major broken bone
means a break caused by accidental means, which can be evidenced by x-ray or other
suitable clinical diagnosis, of a bone within the leg, ankle, arm, back, neck, hip, pelvis,
cranium, mandible, shoulder, or wrist. More than one break to the same bone will be treated
as a single claim.
Im satisfied that Mr R had an accident which caused him a shoulder injury. The issue here is 
that theres no medical evidence to support that Mr R broke any bones. I accept that initially, 
his GP suspected a broken clavicle and issued a FIT note on that basis. However, following 
additional medical investigations, an MRI scan and x-ray revealed there was no broken 
bones. Instead, it discovered that Mr R had suffered a shoulder impingement, which whilst 
painful, doesnt meet the policy terms because its not a broken bone. 
It's for these reasons theres no benefit payable and therefore MetLife decline Mr Rs claim 
fairly. 
I also considered whether hospital benefit was payable to Mr R for his shoulder 
impingement, but I found that he didnt meet the policy terms here either. I say that because 
when he was initially admitted to hospital, he was there for less than 24 hours and so no 
benefit was payable for that admission. 
I also noted that Mr R attended hospital for a scheduled operation to his shoulder a couple of 
months after the accident. Mr Rs policy terms say that MetLife will only pay hospital benefit 
as a result of an accident, or sickness. And so, no benefit is payable on this point because 
Mr R was admitted as a result of an accident or sickness. This was a scheduled operation 
months after the event and therefore doesnt meet the policy criteria. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman