DRN-3687613
The complaint
Miss C and Mr S complain that AmTrust Europe (AmTrust) has treated them unfairly in 
relation to their buildings warranty.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In June 2019 Miss C and Mr S purchased a new build property which included an 
AmTrust warranty.
Miss C and Mr S raised concerns about damage to the property and AmTrust 
considered this under its conciliation scheme producing a technical report in August 
2020 outlining the issues it identified as defects and those which required further 
investigation. In August 2021 a second technical report was produced.
Miss C and Mr S raised concerns about a range of issues, including defects, data 
protection, policy exclusions, claims handling amongst others. The complaint was 
brought to this Service and a final decision was issued.
A further complaint was made about events and AmTrusts claims handling that 
followed. AmTrust answered this complaint in December 2021. It said it had been 
communicating with the developer in line with its conciliation process but would now 
consider taking the claim forward itself.
Our Investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. She said AmTrusts 
decision to provide the developer with a further three months to action defects that 
were identified over a year before was unreasonable. And she awarded £200 in 
compensation for the delays that were caused.
AmTrust agreed, but Miss C and Mr S didnt. They provided a detailed reply outlining 
the stress and time AmTrusts actions had caused them as well as a timeline of 
events. In addition, they discussed AmTrusts actions being intentionally frustrating 
and that the compensation awarded would not act as a deterrent. Miss C and Mr S 
asked for the compensation to be increased and an apology from AmTrusts agent.
Our Investigator looked again and increased the compensation to £300 in light of 
evidence Miss C and Mr S submitted, suggesting missed appointments, and lack of 
communication around visits.
Miss C and Mr S still disagreed. They detailed the developers actions that had impacted the 
claim, and said AmTrust should be considered liable for these. So, the matter has been 
passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service requires me to say how I think a complaint 
should be resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means Ill focus on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Where I dont comment on every point made 
by the parties, thats not to say I havent seen or considered them, its just I dont 
consider it necessary to specifically reference them in reaching my decision.
The crux of this complaint is about delays and claims handling. AmTrust has 
acknowledged that its decision to allow the developer a further three months has 
delayed this claim. And it hasnt disputed concerns raised about missed 
appointments or a lack of communication around visits.
So, the matter I have to consider here really comes down to compensation. And to be 
clear, I am looking at events that followed the previous final decision, up until 
December 2021  meaning Im not looking at the full life of the claim, and just a 
period of it.
Miss C and Mr S have provided a lot of information to outline the impact this claim 
has had on their mental wellbeing, and the time theyve invested in trying to resolve 
matters. Ive reviewed all of this carefully, and its clear to me AmTrust couldve 
handled this much better than it has for the reasons our Investigator has given.
However, while I think its reasonable to hold AmTrust responsible for the delays in 
progressing the claim, Im not persuaded that it would be reasonable to hold AmTrust 
directly responsible for each of the developers actions or inaction in the 
circumstances. I say this as they are separate entities. 
And as our Investigator has outlined previously, I want to be clear any compensatory 
award directed by this Service is not intended to act as a deterrent to a firm  it is 
intended to reflect the distress and inconvenience in the particular circumstances.
So, Im satisfied an award of £300 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint, and recognises the matter being prolonged by 
AmTrusts actions. And Im not directing it to do anything further beyond this.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint. AmTrust Europe Limited must pay Miss 
C and Mr S £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman