DRN-4056825
The complaint
Mr J complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) for declining his claim 
for a lost engagement ring. He wants RSA to settle the claim.
What happened
Mr J insured his home and contents with RSA since 2021. 
In late 2022, Mr J was going through a legal case against a former partner. 
As part of that case, there was a dispute over how an engagement ring had been treated. 
The ring had remained with Mr J when the couple split. 
Mr J said he took the engagement ring with him to court to potentially produce in the hearing. 
He says it was secured in a zipped part of his phone case. He recalled seeing it on arrival at 
court. 
Mr J had to leave some of his possessions in a waiting area whilst in court, and then 
following the hearing was upset and left the court in a hurry. He was not asked to produce 
the ring at that time. 
Later, he went to retrieve the ring from his phone case and found it was missing. 
He contacted the court a few days later and spoke to a police officer who worked there. The 
police officer reported that no ring had been found. 
Mr J submitted a claim to RSA for the lost ring. He provided a valuation for the ring at around 
£11,000 from shortly before purchase. He was not able to demonstrate the purchase by a 
receipt but recalled that he had paid around £9500 for it.
RSAs agents investigated and obtained a statement from the court police officer. The police 
officer had said that Mr J had informed him he had lost the ring either on the way to, or on 
the way home from, court. RSA considered that this was an inconsistent account of events. 
RSA also had concerns about the valuation which Mr J had obtained and considered that it 
was an inflated valuation. 
RSA declined Mr Js claim on the basis of its agents report. It stated that Mr J had not 
demonstrated that an insured event had happened and that he had not demonstrated 
sufficiently that he had purchased the ring in the circumstances he described. 
Mr J complained. RSA maintained its view. 
Mr J complained to us. Our investigator looked into the matter and did not recommend 
upholding his complaint. They considered that Mr J had not adequately supported his claim 
and that it was fair for RSA to decline it. Mr J did not accept that view and asked for an 
ombudsman decision.
I made some enquiries with RSA and issued a provisional decision in March 2023. In that 
provisional decision I explained that I considered that Mr J had presented evidence of an 
insured event, and so I thought that RSA needed to demonstrate that an exclusion applied, 
or there was other reason to reduce or decline the claim. I did not think that RSA had done 
this and so I provisionally upheld the claim. 
I provisionally directed RSA to resume consideration of the claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms, and to pay to Mr J £500 for his distress and inconvenience caused by the 
premature decision to decline his claim. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
RSA has accepted the provisional decision. 
Mr J has welcomed the decision, but considers that the compensation I have provisionally 
awarded is too low. He sets out that the actions of the insurer have caused him severe 
emotional distress and that there has been substantial effect on his mental health and 
wellbeing, especially given that the loss of the ring followed on from a very intense period 
during the court case. 
He also considers that the investigators who have been involved in consideration of his claim 
so far have not approached it in good faith and he feels they have acted deceptively and 
even fraudulently. He asks that I consider this and take any further action I can. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, there has not been any argument against the substantive reasoning of my provisional 
decision or my conclusion that RSA was wrong to decline the claim based on the reasoning 
and evidence it did. I therefore remain of this view and uphold Mr Js complaint. 
The submissions from Mr J focus on two issues: the level of compensation I provisionally 
awarded, and also on the actions of the investigators who were previously involved in 
investigating Mr Js complaint. 
In respect of the first point, about the level of compensation, I accept Mr Js comments about 
how this matter affected him emotionally. He was clearly going through a very difficult time 
and was very vulnerable at the time when the ring was lost. To then have the claim declined 
 representing a large financial loss  and also to feel that his integrity was being challenged 
- must have been extremely distressing for him. 
I must, however, be clear that I can only award compensation for distress and inconvenience 
caused by the wrongdoing of RSA, and not for the full impact that Mr J suffered. The loss of 
the ring and the court case, for example, would have caused Mr J severe distress in any 
event, and these things were not caused by RSA.  I understand that the level of scrutiny 
applied to Mr Js claim has caused him distress, but I do not find that this was, in itself, 
wrong. Insurers are entitled to scrutinise claims to ensure that they pay out only when 
appropriate, and although it is an unpleasant experience to be questioned it is not wrong that 
RSA tested Mr Js account. 
Where they were wrong was in declining the claim, based on the evidence and conclusions 
they had reached. This caused Mr J a substantial upset and there was a big impact on him, but this was not all of his upset. I am satisfied that the level of compensation I have set is in 
proportionate to the additional upset he was caused by the decision, and is in line with other 
awards we would make in similar circumstances. 
Moving then to Mr Js comments about the actions of the insurers investigators. I appreciate 
his strength of feeling about this, but again there is limited action I can take. I cannot make 
any referrals for disciplinary action or criminal investigation as I simply do not have that 
evidence or that power. If Mr J believes that any person has acted criminally towards him 
then he should contact the police. 
I do, however, recognise that the decision was decided too early, and based on inadequate 
evidence, and I think it likely that the investigators who previously looked at this matter would 
now have a pre-existing view on the evidence. I therefore ask RSA to continue its 
investigation using other members of staff, if at all possible, to avoid any suggestion of bias 
in the next stage of the investigation. I do not include this as a formal direction in case it is 
not practicable for RSA, but I urge RSA to use other investigators if it can. 
Putting things right
I  therefore uphold Mr Js complaint. To put matters right I direct RSA to continue to 
investigate Mr Js claim (using different staff if possible) and set out its ultimate decision and 
reasons to Mr J in a timely manner. RSA should also pay to Mr J £500 for his distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, and supplemented in this decision, I 
uphold Mr Js complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Continue to investigate Mr Js claim, and to put to him any continuing concerns it has 
so that he may respond to those concerns; 
provide a reasoned explanation for its decision on the claim, making clear which 
policy terms or legislation have been applied; and 
pay to Mr J £500 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman