DRN-2324138
The complaint
Mr K complains about what happened when he opened a new rewards plus card account 
with Clydesdale Bank plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin).
What happened
Mr K told us that he had a Virgin rewards card with a £8,000 credit limit. He said that he
wanted a different Virgin card, that would enable him to earn double the reward miles for his
spending, and also offer bonus miles for spending in the first three months (the rewards 
plus card).
He said Virgin had a policy of not giving this card to anyone whod had any other Virgin card
in the last six months, so he shouldve been refused. But Virgin had told him to apply then
appeal. So he did that, and was accepted. Mr K said that his old rewards card had a limit of 
£8,000, but his new rewards plus card had a lower limit of £5,600 and he didnt know why 
there was a difference.
Mr K then found out that he can only earn reward miles on spending up to his credit limit per
month. Mr K was spending more than his monthly credit limit, although he was paying the
card off as he did so, so his limit was never exceeded.
Mr K wanted Virgin to either increase his credit limit on the rewards plus card, so he could 
earn more reward miles, or take back the miles already assigned, close his card and refund 
the fee of £160 hed paid for the year. He said Virgin refused, because hed already had the 
benefit of extra miles, but when it said that, he hadnt. No miles had been transferred to his 
account.
Virgin didnt think it had done anything wrong. It was applying the rules of the reward
scheme as those were set out in its terms. It wouldnt close the card and refund the annual
fee, because Mr K had already used the rewards plus card. It also wouldnt increase his 
credit limit in the first six months.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Virgin had made
details of the cap on rewards that could be earned each month available to Mr K. It had also
said Mr K could ask for his credit limit to be raised, but that wasnt guaranteed. Mr K asked
for a higher credit limit only 27 days after hed opened the card, but Virgin has an internal
policy which says it wont raise the credit limit within the first six months of holding the card.
Our investigator said it was likely that Virgins original decision about the appropriate credit
limit would stand, because it was so soon after Mr K had made his application.
Our investigator said that Mr K was outside of the 14-day cooling off period when he asked
to return the card. Our investigator thought that the request was reasonable, and Virgin
couldve resolved things more appropriately at the time, but he couldnt say Virgin had acted
unfairly or outside of the terms agreed to by Mr K. So he couldnt ask Virgin to do any more.
Mr K didnt agree. He repeated hed previously had a Virgin card, which he had to give up to
get this one. He also didnt think his application for a higher limit had actually been reviewed,
he thought Virgins internal policies meant it had been automatically declined. And Mr K said
if hed known this, he wouldve gone elsewhere instead of continuing to use this card.
Because Mr K and our investigator didnt agree, the case was passed to me for a final
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Id like to start by confirming that I dont think Virgin has to give Mr K reward points 
for spending in his month which goes over the amount set as his credit limit. I know 
Mr K wasnt exceeding his limit, he was spending some money, paying it off, and 
then spending some more. But I still think Virgins terms set out its limits on rewards 
available  it will only give reward points in each month for spending up to the credit 
limit.
When this complaint came to me, I wrote to Virgin to ask some questions about the 
card Mr K had been given, and its limit. Virgin said the card Mr K had before this one 
also earned rewards from the same airline, but it was operated by an entirely 
different bank. It said this application was a new card application, with a different 
business, not a second application with the same bank.
I know that Mr K was offered a lower limit for his new Virgin card than the other bank 
which operated his old reward card was prepared to give him. But Virgin is entitled to 
decide, when someone applies for a credit card, how much it wants to lend. So I 
dont think that Virgin did anything wrong when it offered Mr K a credit limit of £5,600.
But Mr K didnt seem to realise that he was dealing with a different bank. He said he 
called the number on his old card (operated by the previous bank) and was told to 
close that card and apply for a new one (operated by Virgin). It doesnt appear as if 
Virgin has explained to him that this is what he was doing. Mr K has referred 
throughout to one business.
I think Virgin should have explained the position to him. In particular, Mr K queried 
why hed been given a different, and lower, credit limit, if he was just taking out a 
different card with the same bank. But we now know he was actually taking out a 
card with a different bank. If he had been told this, it may have helped him to 
understand the difference between the old card limit and the new one. I think Virgin 
has provided Mr K with poor service by failing to make this clear.
Virgins terms say Mr K can ask for a credit limit increase at any time. And those 
terms also say Virgin will consider his request, and look again at his circumstances, 
before making a decision. But Virgin told Mr K, and us, that it wont do any sort of a 
review in the first six months. It wont consider an application during that time, 
instead, any such application will be automatically declined. I have noted that this 
does not fit well with the terms of the account that Virgin has sent us.
When Virgin wrote to Mr K, it said he was unable to apply for a credit limit increase 
for the first six months. But more recently, Virgin said Mr K could appeal the credit 
limit that he was assigned when the card was first opened. And it also now says that 
customers can appeal any decision to decline a credit limit in the first six months. 
Again, I cant see that Virgin said either of these things to Mr K, and this seems to 
contradict what it has set out in its letter to him.Virgin said Mr K hadnt asked it at the time to close his card account and prevent 
miles being transferred to his reward account. But it has also not suggested that it 
wouldve done so if it was asked. It said that was outwith its process. And it didnt 
think refunding the fee and asking Mr K to return his points now was a feasible 
solution.
I agree that this doesnt form the basis of a feasible solution. But, having considered 
this complaint carefully, I think there are a number of instances where Virgin has 
given Mr K rather poor service. I think it couldve explained the position much more 
clearly to him. And it looks to me as if Virgin had given a commitment to consider a 
credit limit increase, and had internal policies which allowed it to consider a change 
to Mr Ks credit limit increase, but told him it would not do so. So I do think Virgin 
should pay Mr K some compensation.
Ive considered the impact that this complaint has had on Mr K, and I think that a 
payment of £150 in compensation would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint. So Ill ask Virgin to pay that amount to Mr K.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr K didnt reply, Virgin did. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin wrote to us, to say something different again. Having previously told us that customers 
who had the old airline reward card and opened a new one were actually changing banks, it 
now says that Mr K wasnt doing that. He already had a card with Virgin, held with the new 
card provider. In fact, Virgin now says Mr K previously had two accounts. 
Virgin has told us Mr K opened a reward plus account in May 2018, which was closed in 
June 2018, and the annual fee refunded. He then opened a reward account in May 2019. 
Thats the card he closed in order to open the new reward plus card, which is the subject of 
this complaint. (Virgin also told us that the reward card Mr K closed now has a credit 
balance, because a purchase has been refunded onto the card. Its written to him about 
this.) 
So Mr K wasnt moving between banks when he opened his new reward plus card, and 
closed the existing reward card hed held since May 2019. But Virgin said there is still no 
guarantee a customer would get the same credit limit for a new account. Credit checks 
carried out at different times can produce different results. 
But Virgin said it accepted what Id said. Mr K has received conflicting information and its
account terms arent clear about requesting a credit limit Increase. So Virgin said it would 
pay £150 for the service issues which Id identified.
Its obviously very disappointing that Virgin has now said something different again. That 
means that the explanation Virgin has previously given to our service, which I set out in my 
provisional decision, was wrong. Mr K wanted to know why hed been given a different, and 
lower, credit limit, if he was just taking out a different card with the same bank. In response 
to that, Virgin told us that Mr K was actually taking out a card with a different bank. Now it 
says thats wrong, and he wasnt. I dont think that changes the overall outcome on this complaint. Thats because I think its 
reasonable for Virgin to make different decisions about how much it will lend to a customer, 
at different times. 
Mr K took out his reward card in May 2019. He cancelled that in February 2020, and took out 
a new card. Virgin offered to lend him less money the second time he applied. That could be 
because of a change in Mr Ks credit file. It could be because Mr Ks credit file hasnt 
changed, but Virgin has taken a slightly different view about something it can see on his file. 
Or it may be nothing at all to do with Mr K. It could be because Virgin has just changed its 
overall view on how much it will lend to customers, and is generally offering to lend a bit less. 
Its not unfair or unreasonable for Virgin to reach a different view on Mr Ks 2020 card 
application. And thats what I would have said in my provisional decision, if Virgin hadnt 
caused confusion then.
When I wrote my provisional decision, I said I thought there were a number of instances 
where Virgin had given Mr K rather poor service. I still think that, and that Virgin should pay 
Mr K some compensation because of this. I dont think it would be appropriate to increase 
that compensation because of this further mistake, but I do still think Mr K ought to be 
compensated, and Ill now make the award I proposed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank plc trading as Virgin Money must pay Mr K £150 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman