DRN-2915680
The complaint
Mr N complains that Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited (T/A Marsh Commercial) overcharged 
him for household insurance from 2012 until 2016. He said cheaper alternatives were never 
offered to him. And he also complains that Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited (T/A Marsh 
Commercial) retracted an offer it had previously made following a remediation process.
What happened
From 2012 until 2016, Mr N used an insurance broker, Marsh, to arrange a household 
insurance policy on his behalf. During this time Mr N said he was offered insurance with an 
insurer that Ill refer to as A. He said he wasnt offered quotations from any other insurers 
and paid from around £1050 to £1250 during that four year period.
In 2017, Mr N was quoted £1239 to renew his policy by Marsh. He believed this was too 
expensive. So, he decided to compare the insurance market. After doing so, he said he 
found a substantially cheaper policy for around £600. Mr N stated that this policy was 
provided on almost a like for like basis. So, he decided to take it out.
On 23 July 2020, Marsh wrote to Mr N to explain that it had undertaken a review of a sample 
of insurance policies sold between 2012 and 2018. And it said the review had identified that 
there may have been a cheaper quotation available from an alternative insurer for some 
customers, which may not have been communicated to them at the time. 
Marshs correspondence went on to explain that Mr N may have been affected by the issues 
the review had identified. And it offered him redress of £1014.56, which it said was based on 
the average amount payable within the sample it had reviewed. Marsh stated that this 
amount included a refund of interest.
In the correspondence Marsh sent Mr N, it explained that he could request a full 
investigation if he wasnt happy with the proposal outlined. But it also stated that a full review 
could result in a higher or lower refund being calculated or show that no refund is due.
Mr N responded to Marshs letter by requesting a full review, which it then undertook. On 27 
November 2020, Marsh wrote to Mr N to explain that the review had established that he 
hadnt been disadvantaged because there was no other insurer that had offered a cheaper 
alternative quotation during the period hed asked Marsh to arrange insurance on his behalf.
Mr N disagreed with the outcome of Marshs full review and complained. He said he found it 
difficult to accept he hadnt been overcharged. He thought that, based on his comparison of 
the insurance market in 2017, cheaper policies must have been available. But Marsh didnt 
uphold Mr Ns complaint. So, he referred it to us. 
An investigator at our service looked into what had happened but didnt recommend 
upholding this complaint. They explained that there was no evidence that an alternative 
policy had been available to Mr N during the time hed used Marsh as a broker. And they 
didnt think it had made an error it how it had undertaken the review Mr N had requested. 
Marsh accepted our investigators view of this complaint. But Mr N requested an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr N and Marsh that Ive read everything thats been sent. So, if 
Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Id like to make it clear that the complaint that Mr N referred to our service is about whether 
Marsh, as his broker, acted fairly in arranging insurance on his behalf. So, I can only look at 
what it did or didnt do here. I cant look at whether the prices set by A were unfair as this 
would need to be pursued by Mr N by way of a separate complaint against A.
The first part of Mr Ns complaint is about whether Marsh has been overcharging Mr N for 
the policies hes held over the years. He feels that hes been disadvantaged by accepting the 
renewal policies he was offered from 2012 until 2016. And he believes that there were 
cheaper alternative policies available that he should have been offered by Marsh. 
I think its important to explain that Marsh is an intermediary with access to a panel of 
insurers. Before sending a renewal invitation to a customer, it searches its panel of insurers 
in efforts to obtain the most favourable quote on their behalf. It can only search insurers, 
however, on its panel. So, it can only compare premiums from those offering quotes.
Id also like to make it clear that I dont have the power to tell a business how to operate  
thats not my role. Within my role I can look at whether Marsh treated Mr N fairly during the 
period hes concerned about  namely 2012 until 2016.
Its not in dispute that, in 2017, Mr N was able to obtain a new policy that was very much 
cheaper than the premium he offered in Marshs renewal invitation. He says the renewal 
invitation quoted an annual premium of £1239. Based on the evidence Ive seen, this had 
decreased from just over £1270 the previous year.
Mr N believes that, because his new policy was substantially cheaper than the price of his 
renewal quote, this indicates that there should have been cheaper policies available to 
Marsh. And I can understand why he may think this. I recognise that he was able to obtain 
cheaper insurance after comparing the market in 2017. And I can see that Mr N thinks Marsh 
ought to have undertaken a similar comparison exercise from 2012 until 2016 as a broker 
providing service. But Marsh, like other brokers, doesnt have access to every insurer. 
Marsh only had access to a panel of insurers from which it received quotes. This explains 
why Mr N would have had more insurance opportunities open to him by comparing the 
market himself. It also explains why he was able to obtain cheaper insurance elsewhere. Ive 
seen nothing to indicate that the insurers offering cheaper quotes to Mr N subscribed to 
Marshs panel of insurers and were therefore available to its customers.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded that, in Mr Ns case, it searched its panel of 
insurers. After doing so, I can see that there were at least two alternative quotes available to 
Marsh over the years. However, these alternative policies were substantially more expensive 
that the policy Mr N took out with A. This means the cheapest policies that were available to Mr N from 2012 until 2016 were with A. Im therefore satisfied that this isnt a case of Marsh 
failing to offer Mr N more competitive preferential quotes. And this means that I dont think 
Mr N has been disadvantaged or treated unfairly as a result of his loyalty with Marsh.
Ive carefully considered the content of documentation Marsh sent Mr N to see if it made him 
aware of the basis of its market selection process. Having done so, I can see that Marsh 
clearly informed Mr N, in renewal documentation, that it hadnt searched the whole market. 
So, Im satisfied that Mr N ought to have been aware that Marsh was only approaching a 
limited panel of insurers for a quote rather than comparing the entire market.
Ill turn now to the second part of Mr Ns complaint, which is about how Marsh undertook its 
full review following his request that it revisit the redress offer it had made.
As I set out in the background to this complaint, Marsh wrote to Mr N to explain that a recent 
review of a sample of insurance policies sold between 2012 and 2018 had identified that 
there may have been a cheaper quotation available from an alternative insurer for some 
customers, which may not have been communicated to them at the time. And it offered Mr N 
£1014.56 by way of redress as it thought he may have been affected by the issues the 
review had identified. 
I can understand why Mr N asked Marsh to undertake a full review in order to explore 
whether hed been overcharged over the period in question  particularly given his 
experience of being able to obtain a cheaper policy elsewhere. And I acknowledge why Mr N 
may have been concerned to learn that, following a full review, no refund was due.
I can see that the review Marsh undertook was based on whether it had alternative quotes 
on file from its panel of insurers that hadnt been provided to Mr N. It wasnt based on 
whether he could have obtained a cheaper premium elsewhere from the wider market.
I can also see that the correspondence Mr N received from Marsh about its preliminary 
review clearly stated that a full review could result in him receiving, at worst, no refund  as 
happened here. So, Im satisfied that Mr N was informed that this could be the outcome of a 
full review.
Ive already explained that Im persuaded that there werent any cheaper alternative quotes 
available to Marsh from 2012 until 2016. This explains why, following a full review, Marsh 
determined that no refund was due to Mr N. In those circumstances, I cant say that was an 
unreasonable conclusion for Marsh to reach here.
I know Mr N will be disappointed with this decision  he feels very strongly about the issues 
raised in this complaint. And I appreciate the reasons why he brought his complaint to our 
service. But for the reasons outlined, Im not persuaded Marsh did anything wrong here. So, 
I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Marsh to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman