DRN-3024480
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly turned 
down their claim on their home insurance policy and has handled the claim poorly.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr B and Mrs B claimed on their home insurance policy for damage to their 
rear roof tiles following a storm in February 2020.
RSA turned down Mr B and Mrs Bs claim. It said the tiles showed evidence of general 
weathering over many years but there was no storm-related damage.
Mr B and Mrs B say the rear roof was in a more than satisfactory state of repair before the 
storm. They also say RSA handled their claim in an unprofessional and dismissive way.
The investigator who looked at Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint didnt uphold it. She thought it 
was likely the storm highlighted issues with Mr B and Mrs Bs roof but wasnt the main cause 
of them. And she thought RSA had considered the information it needed to assess the claim 
in a reasonable timeframe. 
Mr B and Mrs B disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint. I know this will 
disappoint Mr B and Mrs B. But I hope the reasons Im about to give will help them to 
understand why I dont think, based on what Ive seen, RSA has treated them unfairly or 
unreasonably.
My starting point is Mr B and Mrs Bs home insurance policy. This covers their buildings for 
physical damage caused by a storm. It excludes cover for any damage that happens 
gradually, including wear and tear. 
When we look at claims for storm damage, our approach is to ask three questions:
Was there a storm?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with a storm?
Was the storm likely to be the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to all three questions is yes, its likely well uphold the complaint.
In our view, a storm is an event characterised by violent winds, usually accompanied by rain,
hail or snow. In Mr B and Mrs Bs case, RSA hasnt disputed there was a storm. And internal 
records RSA has sent us refer to very high winds at the time. So I think there was a storm. 
That means the answer to the first question is yes.
RSA says the damage Mr B and Mrs B are claiming for isnt consistent with a storm. It says 
the tiles on Mr B and Mrs Bs rear roof are crumbling, deteriorating and deshelling. It says 
this is because of general weathering over many years, the tiles having reached the end of their 
serviceable life.  
In saying this, RSA has relied on the expert opinion of its surveyor. The surveyor says he 
observed no evidence of any storm damage. He says the majority of the tiles have started 
to crumble and deteriorate  due to freeze/thaw action over the years. RSA has series of 
very detailed photos to back up the surveyors conclusions.
Mr B and Mrs B dispute RSAs conclusion on this point. They say their rear roof was in a 
more than satisfactory state of repair before the storm, that none of the tiles were crumbling 
or deteriorating and thered been no evidence of crumbling from deposits on the ground 
before the storm  which they say there was after it. 
Mr B and Mrs B have also shown us a copy of a document they sent RSA with photos of 
their front and rear roofs, which they say were taken in recent times before the storm. They 
say two of the photos show the rear roof in winter and summer. They say these photos 
confirm the rear roof was in a more than satisfactory condition before the storm and discount 
RSAs conclusion that the damage was caused by the roof deteriorating over time.
Responding to our investigators view on their complaint, Mr B and Mrs B say that, while its 
fair for us to look at professional reports, the information theyve us should have equal 
importance, since its made in an honest and historical context to assist us.
I appreciate Mr B and Mrs B have given their honest opinion about the condition of their rear 
roof, both before and after the storm. But they havent given us any other evidence  such as 
an opinion from an expert  to back up what they say. And the photos theyve shown us 
arent dated and dont have the high level of detail shown in the photos RSAs surveyor took. 
Mr B and Mrs Bs opinion and their photos on their own arent enough to persuade me RSAs 
conclusion, reached in reliance on its surveyors opinion, that the damage to their roof wasnt 
consistent with storm damage, is unfair or unreasonable. From this, it follows I think the 
answer to the second question is no.
Turning to the third question, RSAs surveyor says, although the storm highlighted the 
problem, the rear roof had been deteriorating for some years. From the information Ive 
seen, and given my finding on the second question, I think RSAs conclusion on this point is 
fair or reasonable. It follows that I think the answer to the third question is also no.
And that means that I dont think RSA has turned down Mr B and Mrs Bs claim for storm 
damage unfairly or unreasonably. Mr B and Mrs B say theyve spent a lot of money over the 
years maintaining their home to a good standard and I dont doubt this. But, nevertheless, I 
think RSAs finding that its more likely than not the main cause of the damage to their roof 
was wear and tear occurring gradually over time isnt unreasonable. And this sort of damage 
is something their home insurance policy doesnt cover.
Mr B and Mrs B say their next-door neighbours and a further eight other properties along 
their road suffered the same damage to their rear roofs as they did after the storm. They say 
this is incontrovertible evidence the damage to their roof didnt happen in isolation. And they 
say it isnt plausible to say the damage wasnt caused by the storm, because this would imply that all the rear roofs of the other properties were in the same condition of wear and 
tear as their own, which they say cant be the case.
Every case is different, and my role is to decide if RSA acted fairly and reasonably in turning 
down Mr B and Mrs Bs claim for storm damage. And I must do this based on the facts and 
information I have on their particular complaint  and not, for example, on the basis of any 
claims their neighbours may have made. In any case, apart from Mr B and Mrs Bs 
comments on this point, Ive seen no evidence about the condition of the other rear roofs on       
Mr B and Mrs Bs road after the storm. So it wouldnt be fair and reasonable of me to 
assume, on the basis of their comments alone, either that the damage to their roof was 
consistent with a storm or that it was most likely the main cause of it.
Mr B and Mrs B say their complaint was handled unprofessionally and dismissively by RSA. 
In particular, they say RSA had made its decision to turn down their claim before it had got 
an email, as well as the photos of the roof Ive already referred to, which Mr B sent on 28 
April 2020. 
From RSAs internal notes, I can see that on 29 April a call handler noted: 
Have called the insured to discuss the email. We will await to receive further images as per 
the insureds [sic] request. Once received and reviewed we will call to discuss. 
The following day, RSAs internal records show another call handler called Mr B to explain 
why the claim was being turned down.
From this, it looks to me as if RSA turned down Mr B and Mrs Bs claim quite quickly after 
having been notified of it. But from the information Ive seen. I dont think it did so 
unprofessionally or dismissively.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman