DRN-3181808
The complaint
Mrs M complains about a conditional sale agreement provided by Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc  trading as Santander Consumer Finance. She says she tried to cancel the agreement 
as she didnt want the car supplied under it, but she wasnt allowed to.
She also says the car was mis-represented to her.
What happened
In October 2019 Mrs M took a conditional sale agreement with Santander to acquire a used 
car, at a dealer Ill refer to as T. Mrs M says T didnt let her test drive the car as the engine 
wasnt ready and pressured her into signing the finance agreement.
Mrs M says she found out the car had a CVT gearbox when she wanted an automatic 
gearbox. And she said the car was advertised as having driven 68,000 miles when it had 
actually covered around 68,950 miles. She also says incorrect information was recorded on 
the finance application.
Mrs M contacted Santander and asked to cancel the agreement as she didnt want the car 
anymore. Santander told her the agreement didnt have a cancellation period. It also said it 
had spoken to T who had said Mrs M had the chance to test drive the car but didnt request 
to. It said the car was fully inspected and had no issues.
Mrs M continued to ask to cancel the agreement and was again told she didnt have the right 
to do so. At the end of November 2019, Santander wrote to Mrs M and explained the car had 
been taken to storage as it had been abandoned at T. It also sent Mrs M a default notice, 
explaining she was in breach of her agreement by not retaining possession of the car. It 
explained if she didnt take possession of the car before 19 December 2019 it may terminate 
the agreement.
A solicitor representing Mrs M then got in touch with Santander, again setting out that Mrs M 
had exercised a right to cancel the agreement. A solicitor on behalf of Santander wrote back, 
explaining Mrs M didnt have the right to cancel the agreement. It explained there seemed to 
be confusion between the right to cancel the agreement and the right to withdraw from it. 
Mrs M then brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator issued a view and didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said, in summary, that she couldnt see why T would decline 
Mrs M the chance to test drive the car. She said a CVT gearbox is an automatic gearbox. 
And she explained that while Mrs M did have a right to withdraw from the credit agreement, 
she wouldve needed to pay Santander the required funds due to do so, which she didnt.
Mrs M responded and said she did have a right to cancel the agreement within 14 days of 
taking it. She said the CVT gearbox wouldve been more expensive to repair than a standard 
automatic gearbox and she couldnt test drive the car to see if it was okay. She said the 
mileage was advertised incorrectly. And she said on the application she was listed as being 
employed for 15 years rather than two.
Our investigator replied and said she didnt think the car was misrepresented for either the 
gearbox or the mileage. She said Mrs M had signed the agreement with her employment 
details on. And she said it appeared Mrs M only asked to test drive the car after shed 
agreed to take it.
Mrs M remained unhappy. She said she believed from the wording on the agreement that 
she could cancel it. She said a CVT gearbox has disadvantages over a traditional automatic 
so this shouldve been pointed out. And she said she did ask to test drive the car. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
It's been confirmed that the car has now been sold at auction and Mrs M owes a balance 
remaining from this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mrs M complains about a conditional sale agreement. Entering into regulated consumer 
credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im happy I can consider Mrs Ms 
complaint against Santander. 
Mrs M has raised a few points to think about, so Ill consider these in turn
Should Santander have allowed Mrs M to cancel her credit agreement?
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs M has said. She believes she had a right to cancel the 
agreement under its terms and under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). But theres little 
I can add to what Santander, Santanders solicitor and our investigator have already told 
Mrs M here.
There is confusion here between Mrs M having the right to cancel the agreement  and the 
acquisition of the car  and Mrs M having the right to withdraw from the agreement. These 
are two different things.
The agreement Mrs M signed says:
Right of withdrawal
1.1 You have the right to withdraw from this agreement without providing a reason for doing 
so. This right begins on the day after you receive a copy of the executed agreement from us 
and ends 14 days later. You may exercise this right in person or by informing us in 
writingor by telephone at any time up to an including day 14. Payment can be made by 
payment card via If you would like to pay by a different method
1.2 If you withdraw from this agreement and you have paid the cash price together with 
interest payable on that amount to us within 30 days title to the goods will pass to you on 
the same terms as would have applied had you not withdrawn from this agreement You 
must pay us any amount that you owe to us following your withdrawal from this agreement 
on demand.
1.3 If you do not withdraw from this agreement within the 14 day period, this agreement will
remain binding upon you until the end of this agreement or such time as it is terminated (ifearlier)
Please note I have added the emphasis above myself. 
When Mrs M took the credit from Santander, the funds were sent to T and Santander 
became the owner of the car. Mrs M did have a right to withdraw from the finance 
agreement. To do so, she wouldve had to pay Santander the money due under the 
agreement  at which point it wouldve passed ownership of the car to Mrs M, withdrawing 
her from the credit agreement.
But, this isnt what happened. Mrs M didnt pay Santander anything. She simply asked to 
cancel the agreement and said she didnt want the car anymore. This isnt what is in the 
credit agreement and isnt a right that Mrs M has under the CCA.
It follows that I dont think Santander did anything wrong when it declined Mrs Ms request to 
cancel the credit agreement.
Was the car misrepresented to Mrs M?
There are two things to consider here. Mrs M says the car had a CVT gearbox rather than an 
automatic gearbox. And she says the car was listed with the wrong mileage.
I should first explain that I would consider a misrepresentation to have taken place if Mrs M 
was told a false statement of fact about the car, and that statement induced her into 
entering the contract to acquire it when she otherwise wouldnt have.
In relation to the CVT gearbox, I dont believe a false statement of fact was made. I say this 
as Mrs M says the car was advertised and described as being an automatic. A CVT is a type 
of automatic. I understand Mrs M wasnt happy with the specific type of gearbox. But I 
havent seen anything to suggest T gave Mrs M incorrect information about it.
I accept the mileage of the car was advertised at 68,000, when it had actually covered 
around 68,950. I should firstly say it wouldnt seem unreasonable to me that the mileage 
might change slightly after the advert came out - for instance if the car was test driven, 
moved to be serviced or used by T. I also think, given it was advertised as having exactly 
68,000 miles this would seem a very round figure to assume perfectly accurate.
But, the above being said, even if I thought this amounted to a false statement of fact, I still 
wouldnt ask Santander to take any action here. Thats because it seems Mrs M was happy 
to take a used car with 68,000 miles. I dont think additional mileage totalling less than 1.5% 
of the total distance covered by the car wouldve stopped her entering into the contract. So, it 
follows I dont think a misrepresentation took place here.
I have thought about what Mrs M said about not being allowed to test drive the car, which 
wouldve let her try the gearbox and see the mileage. Ts version of events directly 
contradicts what Mrs M said here. So, I dont know for sure what happened. But, I cant see 
why T wouldnt let Mrs M test the car. She says it said the engine wasnt ready, but I havent 
seen any evidence of this. There is also some testimony which suggests Mrs M only found 
out about the CVT gearbox after she agreed to take the car  so I dont think she wouldve 
asked to test drive it to try this out before entering into the agreement. 
Thinking about everything, I havent seen enough to make me think its most likely T wouldnt 
let Mrs M test drive the car. It follows this doesnt change my opinion.
Other issuesMrs M says she was pressured into taking the finance agreement and the car. Ive carefully 
thought about what shes said here. But, it appears Mrs M signed things over a period of 
more than a day. So, with little other evidence, I havent seen enough to make me think its 
most likely Mrs M was pressured or forced into taking the finance and car. I think its most 
likely she changed her mind after she signed things.
Mrs M also says her employment period is listed incorrectly on the application. Even if this is 
correct, I cant see its affected Mrs M in any way. So, I dont think I need to consider this 
further.
I want to reassure Mrs M that Ive carefully considered everything else shes said about this 
complaint. But, having done so, I still dont think it should be upheld.
Finally, Mrs M owes Santander a balance from this agreement because of whats happened. 
I would politely remind Santander that it should treat Mrs Ms situation with forbearance and 
due consideration.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman