DRN-3991789
The complaint
Miss W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) caused unnecessary 
delays in administering her request to take her 25% tax free Pension Commencement Lump 
Sum (PCLS) from her personal pension, and further delays in the transfer of the remaining 
funds into an alternative plan. Miss W complains that these delays have caused her a 
financial loss and significant distress.
Miss W is represented in this complaint by a professional body who are also her financial 
advisers. However, for clarity, I shall refer to all actions and communications as being made 
by Miss W herself.
What happened
Miss W had a personal pension with Aviva. In March 2021 Miss W wrote to Aviva and 
informed it that she was planning to retire and wished to access her PCLS. She also said 
she wanted to leave the remaining funds in income drawdown. In response Aviva sent 
Miss W some information about her funds and what she could do.
In May 2021 Aviva provided Miss W with the information packs she would need to complete 
in order to initiate the PCLS process. But at that time Miss W wasnt ready to start the 
process. She planned to move to Spain at the end of 2021 and wanted to ensure she had 
everything organised in order to meet this deadline. Having sought financial advice Miss W 
understood that the PCLS, whilst being tax-free in the UK, had to be paid to her by the end 
of the 2021 calendar year to ensure it wouldnt be subject to taxation by the Spanish 
authorities.
On 10 November 2021 Miss W completed all the paperwork she thought was necessary and 
this was sent to Aviva by courier. The cover letter said she was moving to Spain so it was 
imperative she took the maximum PCLS available and that the remainder would eventually 
be transferred into a Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS). 
However Aviva emailed Miss W on 24 November 2021 as it thought she may exceed her 
Lifetime Allowance (LTA) and be subject to a tax charge when she went into drawdown, so a 
new PCLS quotation was needed. On 1 December 2021 Miss W completed a LTA 
questionnaire and this, along with further information from her IFA was sent to Aviva. 
However there was an error in the policy number shed completed, so she sent a correctly 
completed version to Aviva on 6 December 2021.
There followed a number of chase emails to Aviva as the end-of-year deadline was 
approaching. Aviva said a new quotation was being prepared, but this did not arrive as 
promised, and Miss W complained to Aviva on 15 January 2022. She said the delay in 
providing her the quote meant she would be liable to taxation by the Spanish authorities, and 
submitted a claim for £73,379 to cover her losses. 
Aviva issued its retirement quote to Miss W on 18 January 2022 and provided a further 
breakdown of its calculations on Miss Ws request the following day.
Aviva sent Miss W its final response to her complaint on 4 February 2022. It recognised 
there had been delays in providing her retirement quote, and it ought to have been able to 
do this by 13 December 2021. It said the delays were due to Covid and staff absences. It 
said if Miss W wished to proceed with taking the PCLS in the next 30 days it would look to 
cover any losses the delays had caused. It also offered Miss W £250 for the trouble and 
upset she had been caused.
On 21 March 2022 Aviva emailed Miss W to ask if she wanted to proceed with taking the 
PCLS and transfer to the QROPS. She replied the same day instructing them to continue.
On 20 April 2022 Aviva confirmed to Miss W that it had made the PCLS payment of 
£109,546.21 but the QROPS transfer was still pending. Miss W made a second complaint to 
Aviva on 16 May 2022 regarding the delay in the PCLS payment and the ongoing delays in 
the QROPS transfer.
As Miss W had received no response to her second complaint and was dissatisfied with how 
Aviva had handled things, she complained to our Service, 
Aviva responded to Miss Ws complaint of 16 May 2022 on 22 June 2022. It said the PCLS 
payment was made on 20 April 2022 with an effective date of 21 March 2022  the day she 
instructed it to proceed. It said it had completed a calculation to see if she had lost any value 
in the PCLS due to the delays using a hypothetical calculation date of 16 February 2022. It 
said this was the date it ought to have been able to complete the PCLS claim. It said this 
showed it needed to pay Miss W an additional £19,122.11 in tax-free cash as this 
represented the extra amount she would have received in February 2022. It also offered 
£200 compensation to say sorry. Aviva then addressed the complaint about the delays to the 
QROPS transfer. It said it had worked out that it ought to have been able to complete the 
transfer on 2 March 2022 when it would have been worth £374,887.44. It said she had 30 
days in which to accept this value.
The transfer process went ahead on these terms, and on 1 September 2022 Aviva notified 
Miss W that the funds had been transferred into her QROPS, but it was discovered that 
there had been an error in the way Aviva had made the transfer, so the funds did not arrive.
On 3 October 2022 Aviva made the payment again, but again made an error so the payment 
was not completed. The funds were not correctly received by Miss W until 28 October 2022.
Aviva completed its complaints process, sending Miss W its third response letter on 
1 December 2022. It said the additional £19,122.11 it had given Miss W was a 
compensation payment, and as such did not affect her LTA or mean she would be 
subjected to an HMRC tax-charge on this amount. It said it had also carried out a calculation 
to see if the transfer value of her pension when it transferred into her QROPS was less than 
what it would have been on 2 March 2022  the hypothetical date it said it ought to have 
been able to make the transfer. And having done so it found her fund was actually worth 
more as a result of the delay, so there was no loss. But it did offer Miss W a further £750 
compensation for the further trouble and upset she had been caused.
But Miss W remained unhappy with the outcomes of her complaints so asked our Service to 
conduct a review. She said she had delayed selling her home in the UK as a result of Aviva 
not paying her the PCLS in 2021, so had incurred additional utility and household bills. In 
order to settle the complaint, she said Aviva needed to do the following:
Pay her tax adviser fees (€387.20);
Pay her £2,989.77 for the additional UK home utility bills;Recalculate the redress to reflect the plan value had the PCLS payment been 
completed on 13 December 2021;
Pay £59,262.49 for the Spanish tax liability the delays meant she would incur; and
Increase the distress compensation figure.
An Investigator at our Service considered everything that had happened and concluded that 
he didnt think Aviva had been fair in either its calculation methodology or compensation 
offer. He thought, in summary:
Aviva ought to have been able to make the PCLS payment to Miss W by 
31 December 2021, so a new comparison should be made between the PCLS value 
on 31 December 2021 (when it ought to have been paid) and 20 April 2022 (when it 
was paid). Should this calculation show a difference greater than the £19,122.11 it 
had previously paid her, the difference should be paid to Miss W;
Aviva should add 8% simple interest to the PCLS payment (and the additional 
compensatory payments) calculated from 31 December 2021 to the date they were 
actually paid. 
It would not be fair to say Aviva was liable for the additional utility bills for Miss Ws 
home in the UK, as these bills were not in Miss Ws name (they were in the name of 
Miss Ws civil partners name). He could not ask Aviva to compensate Miss W for 
something which she was not responsible for paying.
There was no evidence to show that the house sale or Miss Ws move to Spain had 
been delayed due to the errors made by Aviva.
Should Miss W incur a tax-charge from the Spanish tax authorities on the 
compensation paid for the late PCLS payment, it would be fair for Aviva to consider 
paying for this, on receipt of suitable documentary proof of the payment of a tax-
charge and the reasons for it.
The claim for £59,262.49 was for a hypothetical tax bill that Miss W thought she may 
incur from the Spanish tax authorities. He was unable to say Aviva ought to pay this, 
nor the associated tax adviser fees amount as no tax liability had actually occurred. 
And if it did occur in the future it may be more, or it may be less. 
The dates used in the loss calculation on the QROPS transfer should be amended. 
The start date should be 4 January 2022, and not 2 March 2022, which Aviva 
previously used. The transfer values on 4 January 2022 and 27 October 2022 should 
be compared, and if there is a loss identified Miss W should be compensated for this.
Avivas total offer of £1,200 over the three complaint responses was insufficient to 
reflect the significant distress the problems had caused Miss W. He thought a total of 
£1,800 was more appropriate.
Aviva accepted the Investigators outcome in full, but Miss W didnt. She said, in summary:
Spanish tax authorities work one year behind. So any tax liability on the PCLS and 
compensation payments made to her in 2022 would only arise in 2023, and it is only 
fair that Aviva meet this future liability along with her tax-adviser charge.
Although the UK house utility bills were in her partners name, they had been civil 
partners for 12 years. 
It was impossible to make firm plans at the end of 2021 given the problems Aviva 
had caused, but she would have left the UK as soon as the PCLS payment had been 
made. It is fair to say that there had been an additional six months of utility bills as the sale of their house had to be delayed, so Aviva ought to cover these.
The suggested additional £600 payment for the distress and inconvenience shed 
been caused was an insult and did not follow our Services guidance. A payment of a 
total of £5,000 was more appropriate, although nothing could put right and help her 
get over the detrimental effects the last 12 months had had on her and her family. 
Our Investigator responded to say that should Miss W incur a tax-charge from the Spanish 
authorities, she should provide evidence to Aviva of how this charge was attributable to its 
delays. But this could only be done once this was finalised by the Spanish tax authorities. 
And the same went for her tax adviser fees  if a financial loss occurs and she can provide 
evidence of this loss, and that Aviva were responsible  for it due to its delays, then Aviva 
would be liable for making good this loss. Our Investigator also made this point to Aviva but 
it hasnt responded further. 
Our Investigator didnt agree that the household bills should be refunded. He said that whilst 
appreciating they were in a civil partnership, he could only recommend repayment of the bills 
to the person in whose name they are, and only if they were the complainant in this case. 
And in any case, he thought he was unable to say these bills were a direct result of Avivas 
delays, and he was unable to determine when Miss W would likely have moved to Spain had 
everything gone to plan.
And having reconsidered what had happened and the effect this had had on Miss W, he 
wasnt minded to increase the total amount of compensation. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W has made a number of detailed points and provided a lot of evidence, and I have 
looked at it all. Were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to 
the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focussed on what I consider to be the heart of the 
matter, rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to 
Miss W. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it. 
Aviva has accepted, in full, the outcome recommended by our Investigator. And Miss W, 
whilst reasserting that Aviva ought to be responsible for any future Spanish tax-charge she 
incurs, has disagreed with his view that Aviva should not be required to repay the UK 
household bills Miss W has asked for. She has also strongly argued that the compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused should be higher.  So it is these points 
which I will focus on in this decision.
Future Spanish tax-charges.
Miss W told Aviva that she needed the PCLS payment to be made before the end of the 
2021 calendar year or she may be subject to a tax-charge by the Spanish tax authorities. 
And Aviva has accepted that it ought to have been able to complete the PCLS payment 
within these timescales. I am not an expert on taxation, nor is it my role, especially when it 
relates to non-UK rules, but Miss W has asserted that she has received some advice and 
believes that the PCLS payments Aviva made in 2022, whilst they would have been tax-free 
in the UK, will be taxed in Spain. So I agree that should this happen, then Miss W will have 
suffered a financial loss caused by Avivas delays. But I agree with the Investigator that it 
would not be fair to require Aviva to pay the amount that Miss W (and her tax adviser) have estimated, because it is just that  an estimation. Nobody can be sure a tax-charge will even 
be imposed, let alone how much it will be. But should Miss W find that the PCLS payment (or 
any other compensation payment) made in 2022 is taxed by the Spanish authorities, then I 
agree that Aviva should, if provided with evidence to show both the amount she has to pay, 
and that this was triggered by the PCLS (or other compensation)  payment, make a payment 
to reflect any tax she has paid (but would not otherwise have paid)  to Miss W. But I dont 
think this should be an open-ended requirement. Miss W has said the Spanish tax 
authorities work one year behind, so any liabilities arising from 2022 would be calculated in 
2023. And I think a further six months is a fair amount of time for Miss W to receive any tax 
demand and to collate and submit her evidence to Aviva. So I consider it fair to say this 
ought to be done by 30 June 2024.
The UK household bills.
Miss W and her civil partner had a home in the UK. Miss W has asserted that she would 
have put this house on the market and moved to Spain as soon as the PCLS payment was 
made in December 2021. But the house wasnt marketed until April 2022 and not sold until 
later in the year, and this was due to the delays caused by Aviva. And so the additional utility 
bills over six months should be paid for by Aviva. But I dont agree. Whilst I accept that 
Miss W and her partner were in a civil partnership, the utility bills were in her partners name, 
so Miss W was not actually responsible for paying them. I am only able to require Aviva to 
make good losses which have been incurred by Miss W, as she is the complainant in this 
case. The repayment of losses incurred by other people, however closely linked they are to 
Miss W, are outside of my remit and are not something I can require Aviva to do.
Even if I thought I was able to consider whether the payment of utility bills in another parties 
name is a relevant loss, I dont think its likely I would conclude theres enough to say they 
ought to be paid here. Whilst I havent concluded my thinking, I see that in November 2021 
there was nothing to suggest the Aviva payments would be delayed and yet Miss W had not 
put her property on the market. Given the circumstances at the time, including the volatility 
linked to the Covid pandemic and the associated lockdowns, I consider it too speculative to 
say when a property might have been put up for sale, and when a buyer might have been 
identified and a sale completed. But as I say, here I dont think I can consider compensation 
where the liability was in someone elses name with nothing to demonstrate it caused 
Miss W direct loss, albeit I accept in general terms a bill will often be a shared household 
expense.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Having looked closely at everything Miss W has said to Aviva over the course of these 
complaints, and also to our Service since we have been involved, I can see clearly the 
substantial negative impact on Miss W.. The tone of her communications has shown a clear 
transition from frustration, to disbelief, anger, anxiety and ultimately despair. Miss W felt that 
due to Avivas mistakes, her retirement and permanent move to Spain had been put on hold 
with no resolution in sight. It should not be understated that Aviva were handling a large 
proportion of Miss Ws retirement fund. And on two occasions Miss W thought these funds 
had been lost in the transfer process. So I can completely understand how all of this had a 
significant negative effect on her mental health and happiness.
But I think the total amount suggested by the Investigator is fair. I understand that Miss W 
will be disappointed by this as she feels the effect on her and her family warrants a much 
higher payment. But our awards tend to be modest, and follow the guidelines set out on our 
website, and the level of this award is towards the higher end level of where I think the 
circumstances sit.. So whilst I agree Miss W was caused significant distress over a 
prolonged period, she has ultimately been able to retire to Spain, and the transfer of her pension funds has been completed, and as a result of this decision she will not have lost out 
financially. I do not in any way wish to downplay the very clear negative effect this long and 
drawn-out event has had on Miss W, but ultimately the effect of Avivas errors are not 
irreversible, nor has there been any evidence of a long lasting ill effect on her health. So Im 
satisfied that a total of £1,800 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
Putting things right
My aim is that Miss W should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if the PCLS payment had been made on 31 December 2021, and the 
transfer of the remaining pension fund from Aviva to her QROPS had been conducted within 
a reasonable timeframe. 
I require Aviva to conduct a loss calculation using the following methodology to establish if 
Miss W has incurred a financial loss. Aviva must:
Complete a new loss calculation for the PCLS payment using the date it ought to 
have been paid  31 December 2021 and compare this with the PCLS payment 
actually made. If Miss W is worse off than identified in the previous calculation which 
used the hypothetical date of 16 February 2022, then the difference should be paid to 
Miss W. If no further loss is identified then Aviva need do nothing further in this 
regard.
Add 8% simple interest to the PCLS payment already made, calculated from 31 
December 2021 to the actual date of payment.
Should Miss W provide Aviva with evidence of Spanish taxation on the 2022 PCLS 
payment made, or on any further linked compensation payments stemming from this 
2022 payment, up to 30 June 2024, Aviva should consider this evidence with a view 
to reimbursing the tax-charge(s) and the associated tax adviser fees (or relevant 
proportion) if applicable to ensure Miss W does not suffer consequential loss relating 
to the delays Ive considered here.
Complete a loss calculation for the QROPS transfer, comparing the value of the fund 
on the dates of 27 October 2022 and 4 January 2022. Should this indicate that the 
value of the QROPS has suffered a loss as a result, this amount should be paid to 
Miss W.
Pay Miss W an additional £600 in compensation on top of what she has already been 
paid, bringing the total to £1,800 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
she has been caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. My decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should settle 
the complaint in the manner directed, and pay all amounts calculated in accordance with 
what is set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman