DRN-3572594
The complaint
Mr S and Ms W complain Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) paid them the 
incorrect settlement amount for their accidental damage claim.
Any reference in this decision to Mr S and Ms W or LV includes respective representatives 
or agents unless otherwise specified.
What happened
Mr S and Ms W made a claim to LV for a leak affecting their property. 
At the same time, they appointed a firm of engineers (Company A) who found the 
leak was coming from the underground incoming water supply pipe, somewhere 
between the outside sluice valve situated in the public footpath of a local park, and 
the internal sluice valve in Mr S and Ms Ws downstairs WC. 
Company A determined the cause was likely due to outside influence and failure of 
the pipe material. They advised the most cost-effective option to resolve the issue 
was to replace the leaking pipe (rather than repairing it) at a cost of £1250 plus VAT.
LV accepted the claim under the accidental damage part of Mr S and Ms Ws home 
insurance policy. LV appointed its own contractors (Company B) who carried out a 
desktop review of the claim resulting in two options  find the leak and fix the pipe or 
pay Mr S and Ms W a cash settlement equivalent to the cost of a localised repair.
Mr S and Ms W thought that if they chose to repair the pipe it would probably leak 
again, and Company A advised the repair could affect future house sale prospects. 
So Mr S and Ms W paid to have the pipe replaced by Company A. 
LV therefore cash settled the claim. It deducted the policy excess of £300 from the 
calculated amount, leaving £793.10 that was paid to Mr S and Ms W.
But Mr S and Ms W paid Company A £1500 to replace the pipe and say minus the 
policy excess theyre out of pocket an additional £406.90. They think LV should cover 
this shortfall, but LV is satisfied its settled the claim fairly at the amount already paid. 
Our investigator considered the matter and concluded LV had settled the claim in line 
with the policy terms and conditions. Mr S and Ms W didnt think this was fair, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LV is required to handle claims promptly and fairly.
The policy terms state If we can offer a repair or replacement through one of our 
suppliers and you choose not to have the item repaired or replaced or you wish to 
use your own supplier, we will not pay more than the amount we would have paid our 
supplier. 
Mr S and Ms W chose to have their own engineers replace the pipe rather than have 
LV repair it. So under the policy terms, LV is entitled to only cash settle to the amount 
it wouldve paid its supplier  and this is what its done.
Mr S and Ms W say they chose to replace the pipe to avoid it leaking again and 
because Company A told them a repair would need to be declared to future buyers of 
the property, which could impact the prospects of a sale. 
Ive not seen supporting evidence that a repair would need to be declared to future 
buyers. But even if it did, theres no telling if and what impact this would have. And in 
any case, the policy doesnt provide cover for this sort of situation.  
But Id expect any repairs LV proposed to carry out to be lasting and effective. So I 
understand why it would appoint Company B, who are specialists in this area, to 
advise on the best course of action to resolve the leak.
Company B said a repair could be carried out and I think it was reasonable for LV to 
rely on this given its experience in this area.
Mr S and Ms W decided to go with the opinion of Company A who, in their quote for 
works, also set out the option of a repair, but noted that a replacement would likely 
be more cost effective in their opinion. However, this was in part because they said 
there was no surface water, so locating the leak would involve potentially costly 
excavation work with no guarantee it would be found. 
But from what Ive seen in this case, Mr S and Ms W said there was surface water on 
their drive and lawn, suggesting the leak may have been easier to find than stated.
Essentially, both contractors agreed a repair was an option to resolve the leak. LV 
chose to go with the opinion of its trusted contractors and Ive not seen supporting 
evidence to persuade me a repair wouldnt have been lasting and effective. 
With that in mind I think LV offered fair settlement options to Mr S and Ms Ws claim. 
As they chose to use their own engineers, the settlement amount thats been paid 
seems fair and is in line with the policy terms and conditions as previously set out. I 
therefore dont think LV has done anything wrong. It follows I dont uphold this 
complaint and wont be directing LV to pay Mr S and Ms W anything more.
Ive considered all of Mr S and Ms Ws points, including the fact that Company A now 
say a repair couldnt legally be carried out because the pipe had burst beneath the 
building footprint. But at the point of claim, neither LV nor Company A knew the exact 
location of the leak  so this seems to be new information. 
For the reasons already explained, Im satisfied LV fairly settled the claim based on 
the information available to it at that time. If Mr S and Ms W have since obtained 
expert evidence that shows the pipe couldnt have been repaired and replacement 
was the only option to resolve the leak, they will need to provide this to LV in the first 
instance.
Company A have also since argued that Mr S and Ms W had no water at their home 
because of the leak and so couldnt wait for Company B to attend. I cant see this 
was raised to LV at the point of claim, so from what Ive seen Im satisfied it acted 
within the scope of information it had available to it. So these points dont change my 
decision on the complaint thats been brought to me.
Mr S and Ms W asked that we request and listen to call recordings between them 
and LV regarding the claim. Weve done this and these calls dont change my 
conclusion.My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman