DRN-3239396
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Santander UK Plc lost their title deeds and hampered their 
ability to deal with a right of way problem at their home. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a mortgage with Santander which matured some years ago. But the 
deeds werent forwarded from Santander to Mr and Mrs P. The title of the property was 
unregistered, so the title was contained in the deeds. In September 2020 Mr and Mrs P had 
a problem with their neighbour who put up a gate that affected their right of way and they 
wanted to consult the deeds, but Santander were unable to locate them. This meant that 
they couldnt satisfactorily deal with the neighbour dispute which had caused them distress. 
Mr P suffered from dementia and was hospitalised because of the distress caused by that 
dispute.
Santander confirmed they lost the deeds. As compensation they paid Mr and Mrs P £500, 
reconstituted the deeds and paid Mr and Mrs Ps solicitors costs of £650 incurred for the 
dispute with their neighbour. Our investigator felt that in the circumstances that this was 
appropriate and didnt require Santander to do anything further. Mr and Mrs P disagreed and 
asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P have clearly had a very bad time resulting from a dispute with their neighbour 
over their neighbour erecting a gate to prevent their right of way. Mr P suffers from dementia 
and Mrs P describes their windows being hammered in and being pulled out of her car by 
her neighbour at one point and that they had to move house and Mr P had to go to hospital 
because of the stress. They also say that they had problems selling the house because of 
the lost deeds.  Santander is at fault for losing the deeds and in my view should pay 
compensation for the distress caused by that. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P would have 
been anxious to consult the deeds in a right of way dispute and I believe that £500 paid by 
Santander represents fair compensation for that distress. Santander should also reconstitute 
the deeds which Im told has been done. 
The question is to what extent Santander was responsible for exacerbating the 
neighbourhood dispute. Mr and Mrs P refer to intimidation by their neighbour but that was 
not caused by Santander losing the deeds nor could Santander be held liable for the 
behaviour of their neighbour. Ive been provided with no information as to how the dispute 
was resolved and whether if the deeds were available that would have helped resolve the 
dispute and cause less friction. I see that Mr and Mrs P sold the house so presumably its no 
longer a live issue. But neighbour disputes are sometimes not easily solvable and Ive no 
information to confirm that if the deeds were available that this dispute would have been 
more readily solved than without them.
It seems that Mr and Mrs P sought legal advice on the right of way dispute which Santander 
paid for that which seems appropriate. But Ive no correspondence from the solicitor 
indicating that the absence of the deeds resulted in a worse outcome for Mr and Mrs P in the 
neighbourhood dispute than would otherwise have been the case. I also have no evidence 
from a solicitor that the absence of the deeds alone caused a sale to fall through or that Mr 
and Mrs P lost out financially. I note that the property sold last year. I appreciate that any 
buyers lender would  require the security of the deeds to the property but my experience is 
that deeds can be reconstituted as happened here and lenders will accept those as security 
with title insurance as again appears to have happened here. I see that Santander met the 
costs of reconstituting the deeds which seems appropriate. 
I accept this was not a good position for Mr and Mrs P to be in with a neighbour dispute, lost 
deeds and an illness in the family but my view is that the redress made by Santander is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances  and I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman