DRN-1720146
 
The complaint
Mr W complains that Avantia Insurance Limited mis-sold him a legal expenses insurance 
policy. 
Background
In 2018, Mr W took out buildings and contents insurance through his broker, Avantia. The 
policy has an additional benefit of legal expenses insurance. Mr W says that when he made 
a claim under this part of the policy, it was declined. He feels the policy was mis-sold as 
Avantia didnt inform him of the limitations to the cover. 
Avantia say the policy was sold on a non-advised basis and it was Mr Ws responsibility to 
ensure the policy was suitable for his needs. In addition, it says this part of the policy was 
free of charge, so he hasnt paid any additional premiums for it.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. After listening to the sales call she said it was 
clear Mr W accepted that he wanted this cover and Avantia wouldnt be expected to read 
him the whole policy document. She also said that if Mr W was unhappy with the level of 
cover, he couldve chosen not to take it out or cancelled it within the 14 day cooling off 
period. 
In addition the investigator explained that where we find a policy has been mis-sold, we 
would ask the business to refund the cost of the insurance. As this policy was free of charge, 
there wouldnt be anything for Avantia to return even if they had mis-sold it.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigator. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr 
Ws complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. 
Mr W took out his buildings and contents policy over the phone with Avantia. Im satisfied the 
sale was conducted on a non-advised basis as Avantia didnt recommend the policy. This 
means that Avantia needed to give Mr W clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
insurance to allow Mr W to decide whether to take it out. But it didnt need to ensure it was 
suitable for his needs and circumstances. That was up to Mr W to decide for himself.
Ive listened to a call recording of the sale of the insurance. On the call, the Avantia 
representative explained shed be providing limited details about the policy and that full 
details were available online. She asked if Mr W was happy with that. He said he was. She 
later went on to ask him whether he wanted the basic legal expenses insurance, which 
would cover him for property disputes up to £25,000. He was given an alternative to pay £2 
a month which would cover him for legal expenses up to £100,000. He was told this type of policy covered additional disputes such as contracts entered into for goods or services and 
employment disputes. Mr W chose the basic cover.
The representative talked through the level of cover on all sections of the insurance, 
including the applicable excesses. But there was no discussion of what the legal expenses 
policy specifically covered and excluded. Wed expect businesses to draw any significant or 
onerous terms to a consumers attention at the time the insurance was sold. In this case 
Avantia didnt do this but thats because I dont think there was anything of particular 
significance of that would cause Mr W any detriment that shouldve been brought to his 
attention during the call. 
I say so because the limitations on cover that he later became unhappy with are common to 
virtually all legal expenses insurance policies and we dont consider them to be significant, 
unusual or onerous. Mr Ws claim was turned down because the solicitors appointed by the 
insurer felt the costs of pursuing it would exceed the value of the claim. And the policy 
required the claim to be proportionate. I think thats reasonable. We wouldnt expect a 
privately paying person to spend more on pursing a claim than theyre likely to recover. A 
legal expenses insurer shouldnt be expected to either. 
I appreciate that Mr W wasnt happy that the policy didnt give him the benefit of £25,000 
worth of cover to use on legal costs as he wanted to, but I dont think this wouldve made any 
difference to his decision to take it out. I say so because he wouldnt have been able to take 
out a policy without the proportionality requirement elsewhere. And even if hed decided 
against taking out cover altogether, there was no detriment to him because he didnt pay a 
premium for the insurance; it was offered free of charge. 
Mr W has said he doesnt think the policy was free of charge. Rather he feels his buildings 
and contents insurer raised their premium to cover this cost. I havent seen anything that 
supports this so I cant agree thats the case. What I have seen makes clear there was no 
cost attached to this policy, which is also not uncommon for basic legal expenses insurance 
policies sold alongside other cover.
Finally, I know Mr W feels the policy terms were misleading and ambiguous. Avantia didnt 
write the policy so I cant hold it responsible for this. And for the reasons Ive set out above, I 
dont think that any further explanation of the terms wouldve made a difference to Mr Ws 
decision to take out cover. And even if it did, he wouldnt have been worse off because he 
didnt pay for the policy and no other policy wouldve provided him with cover for the situation 
he later claimed for. Because of this I dont think the insurance was mis-sold.
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Avantia Insurance 
Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
 
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman