DRN-1416291
 
The complaint
Mrs B says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2002 in one of the banks branches at the 
same time as Mrs B opened her credit card account. It gave her protection against accident, 
sickness and unemployment, and included some life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint, Ill explain why.
Mrs B says she wasnt made aware of the PPI and didnt know she could deselect the cover. 
I cant know what was discussed in the meeting but I have looked at the paperwork from the 
sale. On the application form Mrs B signed there is a tick for PPI indicating that she wanted 
it. And theres nothing on the form that I think could reasonably have led her to believe she 
had to have it.  I have thought carefully about Mrs Bs comments, but I also have to consider 
how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what she recalls. Overall, I think 
Barclays made clear the PPI was optional and Mrs B agreed to take it.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check if it was suitable for her. I think it 
was right for her based on what Ive seen about her circumstances at the time. Mrs B told us 
she was entitled to at least three months sick pay but the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this for each successful accident and sickness claim for up to 12 months. It also 
gave her up to 12 months redundancy cover. Mrs B said family would have helped but thats 
not suitable alternative protection. Its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can 
change. Overall I think the PPI would have been useful for Mrs B if she was sick, had an 
accident or lost her job.
Mrs B says the cost and the terms of the policy definitely werent discussed with her. Its 
possible the information Barclays gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear or complete as it 
should have been. But Mrs B chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted 
this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs B wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think she 
would still have taken out the policy.It follows I dont think Mrs B has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I'm not upholding Mrs B's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman