DRN-2169392
The complaint
Mr S complained about the way One Insurance Limited dealt with a claim he made under his 
car insurance policy. 
All reference to One Insurance in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr S reported flood damage to his car to his insurer, One Insurance in February 2020. He 
arranged recovery of his car to a main dealership garage. 
One Insurance settled Mr Ss claim by paying a total loss settlement in March 2020.
Mr S complained to One Insurance about the following: He was unhappy with the total loss 
settlement it paid. He said One Insurance decided to write off his car without arranging for it 
to be inspected. He thought it should have been repaired. He said he asked One Insurance if 
he could retain his car, but it didnt ever offer him the option. 
Mr S said he posted the V5 registration document to One Insurance when he received 
payment to settle the claim. In April 2020 Mr S was contacted on his mobile number by 
somebody who said he was the new owner of the car and asked if Mr S had a spare key for 
it. Mr S was very unhappy about this.
One Insurance upheld Mr Ss complaint about the valuation it reached and increased the 
total loss settlement. It paid £50 compensation to Mr S for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused. 
It said there was no indication that Mr S wanted to retain the car. It said once the claim is 
settled as a total loss, the car is deemed as the insurers property. One Insurance said they 
sold Mr Ss car to a salvage agent and it was then at their discretion as to what they did with 
it. 
Mr S told us he didnt want us to investigate his complaint about the valuation One Insurance 
paid. But he wanted us to investigate his remaining complaints. 
While we did this, Mr S received a number of emails from One Insurance chasing him for an 
outstanding balance premium under the policy. And he also received two Notices of 
Intended Prosecution for speeding offences  as the last registered keeper of the car One 
Insurance had written off. 
Our investigator asked One Insurance what steps it had taken to ensure transfer of 
ownership was carried out when it settled his claim. And he asked why Mr S was being 
chased for an outstanding premium under the policy.
One Insurance said Mr S didnt owe any money and it emailed him to confirm this. It said it 
was Mr Ss responsibility to ensure the relevant section of the V5 document was passed to 
the DVLA. It said it requested the V5 document from Mr S on 3 March 2020. It didnt provide 
anything to show it followed up with Mr S after that.
Our investigator thought Mr Ss complaint should be upheld in part. He explained that it is 
the insurers discretion to decide whether its economical to repair a car. And after listening to 
the calls between Mr S and One Insurance, he didnt find any evidence that Mr S asked to 
retain the car. 
However, he thought One Insurance should have ensured the claim was properly settled and 
this included ensuring the correct documents were received and dealt with, including the V5 
to transfer ownership once One Insurance became the owner of Mr Ss written off car. 
As One Insurance failed to follow up on the V5 and didnt receive it from Mr S, the 
investigator thought it hadnt finalised matters as it should have. So he thought One 
Insurance should pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr S had to reply to the police to explain that he was no longer the registered keeper to 
prevent action being taken against him. He then received a second Notice of Intended 
Prosecution in July 2020. The police wrote to Mr S to say it was aware he was no longer the 
registered keeper, but requested his assistance in being able to identify the new owner. 
Mr S accepted the investigators view.
One Insurance asked for an ombudsman to decide. It says it doesnt believe Mr S has been 
inconvenienced because he was contacted by the new owner. It says this could have 
happened in a private sale as the previous owner is listed on the V5 document. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss policy with One Insurance says the following which is key to his complaint:
Total Loss of Your Car
If your car is a total loss, your car will become our property. All cover, including the 
driving of other cars if applicable, is then cancelled for you and any other drivers on 
the policy. We will deduct any outstanding premium owed to us from any claims 
settlement we make to you as we will have met our responsibilities under the policy.
If your car is a total loss, we may put it in free and safe storage until your claim is 
settled. We will also be entitled to take possession of your car once we have settled 
your claim.
If you are paying by instalments and we settle a total loss claim under this section all 
outstanding premiums may be deducted from the claims settlement. The lost or 
damaged car will then become our property. We will also require the original vehicle 
registration document V5C along with all keys.
I dont have any evidence that Mr S sent the V5 document to One Insurance. But One 
Insurance hasnt been able to show that it chased Mr S for the V5 document when it wasnt 
received. As the insurer  and the party taking ownership of the vehicle  I think it should 
have ensured it received the V5 document as the policy says. And I think it should have 
deducted any outstanding premium from the settlement amount, so that it didnt chase Mr S 
as it did- with a warning of passing the outstanding balance to a debt recovery agent.So I think One Insurance provided a poor service in failing to properly close the claim and 
settle all of the administrative parts of it. I dont know how the new owner obtained Mr Ss 
mobile number. But I think One Insurances failure to properly settle the administration 
matters of the claim caused Mr S distress and inconvenience. And so it follows that I think 
One Insurance should compensate Mr S for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
consequences of its failing. 
I understand no action was taken against Mr S as the last registered keeper in relation to the 
Notices he received. But I think its fair and reasonable for One Insurance Limited to pay Mr 
S £150 compensation. 
I know Mr S is disappointed that One Insurance decided to settle his claim as a total loss. 
One Insurance can make a decision that its uneconomical to repair a car. Given the 
circumstances described as to the cause of damage, I dont think One Insurance acted 
unreasonably in reaching this decision.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require One Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
One Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If One Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman