DRN-1741023
The complaint
Miss D and Mr P are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined their 
claim for an escape of water.
What happened
Miss D and Mr P had buildings and contents insurance with RSA. Miss D dealt with the claim 
so, for ease, I will refer only to her throughout my decision.
Miss D made a successful claim for damage to a downstairs ceiling following an escape of 
water from her bath. She provided RSA with two quotes for the work, as requested, and it 
settled the claim in cash.
Five months later, Miss D made a second claim for an escape of water from her bath. 
Luckily, she noticed it dripping and placed a container beneath the leak to catch the water. 
Doing so prevented damage to the ceiling below. She reported the leak to RSA, but it 
declined her claim because:
no damage had been caused, and
the leak shouldve been repaired properly before.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint. He explained that because there was no 
damage to the building, and the leak itself wasnt covered, there wasnt anything to repair 
under the policy. 
Miss D disagreed. She felt that RSA should take responsibility for the leak because she had 
acted in line with its instructions when she arranged for the repair of the first leak.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise this will be a disappointment to Miss D, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Miss D experienced a second escape of water. The issue now is why 
RSA declined the claim after settling the first claim for a similar leak and why its not part of 
the same claim.
Miss Ds policy provides cover for:
Loss of or damage to the buildings caused by any of the following;
5 a) water escaping from water tanks, pipes, equipment or fixed heating systems 
b) internal stress to water tanks, equipment or pipes due to freezing, overheating or water 
pressure which is too high
So, she would be covered for an escape of water if it caused damage to her building. When 
Miss D experienced the first escape of water, it damaged her ceiling, which is why RSA 
accepted her claim and paid for the repairs. For clarity, the cover was for the damage to the 
ceiling only, not the pipe where the leak came from. 
When she experienced a second escape of water, she became aware of it before it caused 
damage beyond wetting the floorboards. As the floorboards dried out, there was no lasting 
damage to repair.
Ive looked at whether RSA should cover the cost of repairing the leak. The policy states:
tracing and accessing leaks
If the buildings are damaged due to water escaping from water tanks, pipes, equipment or 
fixed heating systems in the home, we will pay the cost of removing and replacing any other 
part of the buildings necessary to find and repair the source of the leak.
So, here, RSA would cover the cost of repairing any damage caused when looking for and 
repairing the leak. However, the leak was from the same place as the previous leak and, as 
RSA had settled that claim in cash, it could reasonably expect that the work wouldve been 
done properly such that there wouldnt be a second escape of water. So, for that reason, I 
think it was fair for RSA to decline the second claim.
Miss D thinks RSA should cover her claim because she followed the advice it gave her when 
she reported the first leak. I understand what shes saying here but I dont agree. RSA 
advised her to obtain two quotes, which she did. One quote was for twice as much as the 
other. RSA paid a cash settlement for the lesser of the two quotes - £750 (less excess) to 
replace a section of, and paint, plasterboard ceiling. Because RSA paid the settlement to 
Miss D, it became her responsibility to ensure that the work was completed properly. If RSA 
had appointed its own repairer, it wouldve been responsible for guaranteeing a lasting 
repair. So, RSA could reasonably have expected that Miss Ds contractor would have 
completed a lasting repair. It seems that wasnt the case but, because the second leak didnt 
cause any damage to the building, there is nothing for RSA to cover under the terms of the 
policy.
I can see that Miss D feels RSA instructed her on the work so it should be responsible. 
However, RSA simply advised Miss D about the process for claiming, not about the actual 
repair. RSA, in the same way that Miss D did, relied on the expert opinion of the contractor 
about what was needed to fix the damage. As Miss D chose the contractors from whom she 
would obtain quotes, RSA is not responsible for directing the contractors work. 
While I sympathise with Miss D for the situation, ultimately RSA paid the first claim to cover 
the cost of repairs to the damaged ceiling. So I see no reason why it should accept the claim 
for a second leak, originating from the same place as the first, but which didnt cause 
damage to the building. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman