DRN-4468934
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited should meet her claim on a 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a saloon car, made by a premium-brand 
car-maker with a diesel engine and first registered in 2017.
Mrs A acquired the car in November 2020.
For the year from mid-June 2022, Mrs A had the car insured through an insurance 
intermediary. She had a comprehensive policy with Mulsanne. Any claim for damage (except 
to glass) was subject to an excess of £550.00. Mrs A also had optional extras such as legal 
expenses insurance that was provided by an insurer other than Mulsanne.
In early August 2022, the car passed an MOT test with a recorded mileage of about 41,000.
In early November 2022, Mrs A reported to Mulsanne that an incident on a flooded road had 
caused an engine problem with her car.
Much of the complaint is about communications with a policy administrator acting on behalf 
of Mulsanne. Insofar as I hold Mulsanne responsible for such communications, I will refer to 
them as Mulsannes.
Mulsanne got an engineer to do an inspection in mid-November 2022. He recommended a 
diagnostic report from a main dealer franchised by the car-maker.
In late December 2022, the main dealer did an estimate. It said the cars engine had a bent 
con-rod.
In about mid-February 2023, Mrs A complained to Mulsanne that it should meet her claim.
By a letter dated 4 April 2023, Mulsanne said that Mrs A had deliberately misrepresented 
and exaggerated the claim. It said it was treating the policy as void from November 2022.
By a letter dated 6 April 2023, the intermediary said it had cancelled the policy with effect 
from that date and made a refund to Mrs A.
By a final response dated mid-April 2023, Mulsanne turned down the complaint. It said that 
Mrs A was responsible for deliberate misrepresentation and fraud and the policy was void.
At that time, Mrs As representative brought her complaint to us.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Mulsanne hadnt reached an unreasonable conclusion when declining the claim and 
cancelling cover.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs A  
and to Mulsanne on 6 November 2023. I summarise my findings:
Mrs As representative had sent us some online information that the most common 
cause of a bent con-rod is hydraulic action due to the induction of water, either from a 
blown head gasket or from driving through water above the air intake. 
The main dealer didnt mention a blown head gasket. However, the main dealer 
didnt mention water in the air intake either.
On balance there wasnt enough evidence that water entered the engine via the air 
intake causing hydraulic pressure in the engine to bend the con-rod. 
I hadnt seen any evidence that  in making and pursuing the claim  Mrs A knew 
that there was no connection between the reported incident and the engine problem. 
So Mulsanne had fallen well short of showing reasonable grounds for its suspicion of 
fraud.
I found it likely that Mulsannes cancellation or voidance on the grounds of fraud had 
caused Mrs A personal offence and inconvenience additional to not being able to use 
her car.
Subject to any further information either from Mrs A or from Mulsanne, my provisional 
decision was to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Mulsanne Insurance 
Company Limited to:
1. write a letter to Mrs A (which she may show to prospective insurers) apologising for 
cancelling or avoiding the policy and confirming that, insofar as it had provided any 
adverse information to any external database, it has removed such information; and
2. pay Mrs A £250.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs A disagreed with the provisional decision in part. She and her representative say, in 
summary, as follows:
She has sent us some photographs from the day of the incident.
He has sent us an estimate from the main dealer dated 8 November 2023.
Mulsanne accepted the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Claim
The policy covered accidental damage to the car  whether Mrs A or a third party caused the 
damage. The policy didnt cover mechanical failure.I havent had access to a recording of Mrs As first call to report the damage to Mulsanne. 
From is file, I see that it noted that the incident had occurred on 3 November 2022 (a 
Thursday) and Mrs A rang to report it on 7 November 2022 (the following Monday). 
Mulsannes file noted Mrs As report as follows:
PHV stationary as ahead was flooded, PH started to reverse but oncoming bus has 
come through water & wet PHV. PH turned engine off for 20 mins then restarted but 
engine light was on.
Mulsannes file also indicated that Mrs As car was at the premises of a recovery agent shed 
instructed.
Mrs As representatives email address indicates that he works at the garage that acted as 
recovery agent. But the representative hasnt given us much detail about any roadside 
recovery or about what happened to the car at the garage.
Mulsannes engineers total loss report recorded the cars mileage as 43,030. From the 
photographs, I wouldnt describe the car as immaculate because there was damage to a 
tyre and wheels.
The engineers report included the following:
"Vehicle has suffered from being splashed by a large puddle due to floods, the 
vehicles engine management light is on, however the vehicle is running, reported 
damage not consistent with reported circumstances as vehicle is running so engine 
light is due to mechanical issues which is not covered."
So I find that Mulsannes engineer had understood Mrs As report (that the bus had wet her 
car) as being splashed. The engineer didnt consider that the undiagnosed engine issue 
was consistent with Mrs As report.
The engineer hadnt diagnosed the engine fault  or identified a bent con-rod. So I dont 
accept that Mulsanne said it would pay the claim if driving through water had damaged the 
con-rod.
The main dealers estimate dated 22 December 2022 recorded the mileage as 43,031. So 
the car had only covered one mile since the inspection in mid-November 2022. The estimate 
included the following:
removed all injectors to check piston heights and cylinder no.2 ConRod is bent. by 
4 mm. Engine requires replacement.
I find that  in order to inspect the top of the engine  the main dealer had removed the fuel 
injectors. It then made a diagnosis of a bent connecting rod (between one of the pistons and 
the crankshaft).
Mulsannes letter dated 4 April 2023 included the following:
This estimate clearly states that the damage to the vehicle was a bent injector 
piston
That was incorrect. The estimate clearly stated that the damage to the vehicle was a bent 
con-rod.Mrs As representative has sent us some online information that the most common cause of 
a bent con-rod is hydraulic action due to the induction of water, either from a blown head 
gasket or from driving through water above the air intake. The information also says that 
severe operating conditions may cause a minor bend.
Mrs As response to the provisional decision
Mrs A has sent us some photographs. They were taken in daylight, so after the incident that 
she says happened at 05:00 that morning in November 2022. The photographs show a road 
flooded to above kerb height, but with other vehicles driving through. The photographs also 
show Mrs As car wet.
I dont find the photographs inconsistent with Mrs As report of the incident. But I consider 
that the photographs fall short of showing that water had got into the engine.
Mrs As representative has sent us an updated estimate or report form the main dealer. It 
includes the following:
the head [gasket] had not failed
Vehicle was involved with water ingress to engine
Car was started up and immediately misfiring. Vehicle has been investigated by local 
garage who with a piston 2  compression problem and misfire. EML is on
So the main dealer has now said that there was water ingress to the engine, the car was 
immediately misfiring, and its engine management light is on. 
However, Mrs As representative hasnt said that his garage saw water in the air intake. 
Indeed  as Ive said - the representative hasnt given much detail about any roadside 
recovery or about what happened to the car at the garage. 
The main dealer didnt see the car until several weeks later in December 2022, when it didnt 
mention ingress of water. So I consider that the main dealers recent mention of water 
ingress to engine and Car was started up and immediately misfiring are not based on its 
own inspection but rather on what Mrs A or her representative has told the main dealer in 
response to the provisional decision.
Crucially, I still cant see that the main dealer has expressed an opinion about the cause of 
the bent con-rod.
On balance, I dont consider that theres enough evidence that water entered the engine via 
the air intake, causing hydraulic pressure in the engine to bend the con-rod. So I dont find it 
fair and reasonable to direct Mulsanne to meet the claim.
Cancellation (or avoidance)
The policy terms included the following:
8. Fraud
The insurer will not pay for any claim you make that is dishonest or exaggerated or if 
you or any insured driver makes a false statement or provides false documents to 
support a claim. If this applies, the insurer may also tell the police and your policy 
may be cancelled from the date of the dishonesty, as shown in condition 10. 
Cancellation on page 47.
10. Cancellation 
Our right  to cancel your policyYour insurer and/or [the intermediary] has the right to cancel your policy at any time 
by giving you seven days notice in writing. We or your insurer will send a 
cancellation letter and/or email to the latest address/email address we have for you 
and will set out the reason for cancellation in the letter. Neither we nor your insurer 
will ever cancel your policy without a valid reason for doing so. Valid reasons may 
include but are not limited to the following:

We may also cancel this policy and may not refund your premium if:

 you (or someone on your behalf) make or try to make a fraudulent claim under this 
policy or where you act in a fraudulent way;

 we or your insurer suspect you of fraud. If we or your insurer cancel your policy on 
the grounds of fraud, cancellation may be immediate and we may keep any premium 
you have paid. We may also inform the police of the circumstances. If the fraud or 
suspected fraud is in respect of a claim under this policy, your insurer has the right to 
recover any payment already me right to recover any payment already made in 
respect of this claim
I have a number of reservations about the application of those policy terms. For example, 
condition 8 says that the policy may be cancelled from the date of the dishonesty, as shown 
in condition 10 yet condition 10 provides for cancellation either on notice or immediately 
but not retrospectively or backdated to the date of the dishonesty.
Moreover, Mulsanne would have to show strong grounds of suspected fraud in a claim 
before I would find it fair for Mulsanne to cancel the policy (let alone to treat it as void) on 
that ground.
Ive found on balance that theres not enough evidence that water entered the engine via the 
air intake causing hydraulic pressure in the engine to bend the con-rod. However, I havent 
seen any evidence that  in making and pursuing the claim  Mrs A knew that there was no 
connection between the reported incident and the engine problem. So Mulsanne has fallen 
well short of showing reasonable grounds for its suspicion of fraud.
I find it likely that the Mulsannes cancellation or voidance on the grounds of fraud has 
caused Mrs A personal offence and inconvenience additional to not being able to use her 
car.
Curiously, the intermediary cancelled the policy with effect from 6 April 2023 and refunded 
part of the premium, contrary to what Mulsanne had said a couple of days earlier. Mrs A 
hasnt complained about the amount of that refund. So I make no findings about that.
Putting things right
I will direct Mulsanne to write a letter to Mrs A (which she may show to prospective insurers) 
apologising for cancelling or avoiding the policy and confirming that, insofar as it had 
provided any adverse information to any external database, it has removed such information.
In addition, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Mulsanne to pay Mrs A £250.00 for distress 
and inconvenience at the level Ive found.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to:1. write a letter to Mrs A (which she may show to prospective insurers) apologising for 
cancelling or avoiding the policy and confirming that, insofar as it had provided any 
adverse information to any external database, it has removed such information; and
2. pay Mrs A £250.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman