DRN-4328713
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the interest rate on a mortgage he held with UCB Home Loans 
Corporation Ltd. Mr B says the Loyalty Flexible Variable Rate (LFVR) of interest charged by 
UCB failed to track Bank of England Base Rate (BOEBR) and is therefore in breach of the 
Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations (UTCCRs). To settle the complaint Mr B 
wants UCB to refund interest he says has been overcharged.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 28 July 2023. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, 
so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr B being identified. So 
for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision.
Our investigator explained to Mr B that we could only consider his complaint in relation to 
interest charged after 12 April 2015  which is six years before the complaint was first raised 
with UCB. However, the investigator was satisfied that UCB had not acted unfairly in its 
application of the LFVR to Mr Bs mortgage.
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage was taken out in 2005, initially on a two-year fixed interest rate. In May 2007 
Mr B took out another two-year fixed interest rate. On 1 June 2009 the mortgage reverted to 
UCBs LFVR. There is nothing in either the original mortgage offer or the product switch offer 
that says LFVR is to be set at tracker rate at a margin above BOEBR.
The mortgage was redeemed on 20 November 2018. This decision covers the period from 
12 April 2015  six years before the complaint was first raised  through to the date of 
redemption, 20 November 2018.
I note the advisers who were initially representing Mr B in this complaint suggested that Mr B 
had not read the mortgage documentation and that, as a consumer, Mr B would not have 
been able to discern the meaning of a key term like the interest rate. However, given that 
Mr B arranged the original mortgage himself through his own mortgage broking business, I 
think that is unlikely he would not have read the documentation or that he would not have 
understood the meaning of a key term like the interest rate. 
The relevant part of the mortgage terms and conditions relating to interest rate variations 
states:
5. CHANGES IN INTEREST RATE 
5.1 We may change the interest rate applicable to the debt at any time except during 
any fixed rate period under the offer document giving you three days written notice of 
our intention to do so. 
5.2 We will only change the interest rate for one or more of the following reasons:
 
(i) to reflect changes in general interest rates, including the interest rates or 
terms on which similar accounts are offered by other providers of financial 
services; 
(ii) to reflect any changes or anticipated changes in the law, regulations or 
codes of practice or to respond to a decision by a court, ombudsman or 
regulator; 
(iii) to reflect changes to our costs, including administrative costs, costs 
involved in providing services or facilities or changes in the costs to us of 
borrowing funds; 
(iv) to reflect a change in the way the property is used or occupied; or 
(v) to reflect a change in the credit risk relating to the loan. 
5.3 If we increase the interest rate applicable to your mortgage, you can pay off the 
debt within three months of the rate change notice without the increase taking effect 
but subject to payment of any charge that may be payable under the mortgage offer, 
such as early repayment charges. However, to avoid the increase taking effect, you 
must tell us in writing of your intention to pay off the debt within one month of the rate 
change notice.
Between 12 April 2015 until redemption on 20 November 2018 the mortgage was on UCBs 
LFVR, and had been since 1 June 2009.
UCB has provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with detailed information about the 
reasons why it varied its LFVR in the way that it did. The information UCB has given us is 
commercially sensitive, so can be treated as confidential. The information has been 
reviewed in line with UCBs mortgage documentation, relevant law and regulations. 
One of the considerations that I am required to take into account is relevant law. I consider
that the application of the UTCCRs to the relevant terms in this case falls into that category
of relevant law. The way the UTCCRs apply to the relevant terms of Mr Bs mortgage 
contract is ultimately a matter for the courts. But they are a relevant consideration I must 
take into account when determining what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of 
this case.
 
The crux of this is whether any of the terms, contrary to the requirements of good faith,
cause a significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations arising under the contract,
to the detriment of the consumer. As part of this, relevant considerations are:
the extent to which the terms are sufficiently clear and transparent;
the extent to which there were any barriers to Mr B being unable to exit the contract.At a general level, interest variation clauses such as those that applied to Mr Bs mortgage
have a legitimate purpose and are common in financial services consumer contracts, 
particularly those of long or indeterminate duration, such as mortgage agreements. 
A fair variation term can benefit both consumers and lenders, by providing flexibility and a 
wider choice to consumers and enabling firms to provide competitively priced products, 
knowing they can vary the interest rates they charge to reflect changes in circumstances, 
particularly in their own cost of funding.
A reversionary rate also permits lenders to provide for future changes that justify increases 
in the rate, and a lenders own funding costs are by nature difficult to foresee.
I accept the there is a possibility that a court might conclude that parts of the variation 
clauses are overly broad or could be more transparent. But I think it is important to be clear 
that whatever the answer to this question, the central issue I need to decide is whether there 
has been any unfairness to Mr B from 12 April 2015 onwards.  
Our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. That 
includes, but is not limited to, relevant law. So while Ive taken account of the relevant law 
regarding unfair contract terms, Ive also thought more broadly about whether, and the 
extent to which, the way in which the terms have been used has resulted in unfair treatment 
for Mr B. So Ive considered whether UCB acted fairly overall. 
Having done so, Im satisfied UCB varied the LFVR in line with the mortgage terms and 
conditions and that UCB exercised those terms fairly. This means that Im satisfied Mr B was 
not overcharged interest on the mortgage between 12 April 2015 and 20 November 2018. 
When considering whether there was a significant barrier to exit the mortgage it is important 
to note that there was no ERC applicable to Mr Bs mortgage at the point it reverted to the 
LFVR. So, if UCB had exercised its rights as set by the variation terms, and Mr B was 
unhappy with that decision, he was free under the contract to re-mortgage to another lender.
Overall I am not persuaded there is any basis to say that the variations UCB made to its 
LFVR resulted in Mr B being charged an unfairly high rate of interest on the mortgage during 
the period I can consider. Furthermore the evidence does not lead me to conclude that the 
interest charged during that period was unfair for any other reason.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman