DRN-3541649
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way that Lowell Financial Ltd has managed the collection of debts 
in his name.
What happened
Lowell Portfolio I Limited bought outstanding accounts in Mr Ms name and appointed Lowell 
Financial Ltd to manage them on its behalf. For ease, I will refer to Lowell Financial Ltd as 
Lowell and Lowell Portfolio I Ltd as Lowell Portfolio in this decision. Lowell has been asking 
Mr M to pay debts that he owed to businesses I will refer to as N and C.
In late 2021, Mr M raised several concerns with Lowell. He wanted copies of the credit 
agreements as he didnt recognise the alleged debts. Mr M asked Lowell to suspend debt 
collection activity until it had proved ownership of the debts. Mr M wanted Lowell to remove 
his previous address from its database. Mr M was unhappy that Lowell didnt respond to his 
request for copies of the agreements and statements within 12 working days.
Before this service became involved, Lowell acknowledged that its level of customer service 
had let Mr M down. Lowell offered Mr M £150 to apologise but he didnt accept.
After Mr M brought his complaint to this service, the investigator set out his understanding of 
his complaint points as follows:
Mr M was unhappy that Lowell hadnt responded to his requests to remove an email 
containing his bank details that hed sent to it by mistake
Lowell had ignored his requests for copy documents 
Mr M felt harassed by Lowell as it has instructed more than one debt collection 
agency and the debts were statute barred
Mr M wanted Lowell not to send letters to his address as he was of no fixed abode
Mr M thought that the investigator had captured most of his complaint. He was unhappy with 
the delays by Lowell, for example when responding to his request not to send post to his 
previous address as hed moved. Mr M wanted Lowell and other similar companies to treat 
people fairly. He also said hed made a settlement offer to Lowell.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. In summary, he didnt 
see evidence of harassment by Lowell and he was satisfied that Lowell responded to Mr Ms 
settlement offer. The investigator didnt think Lowell had treated Mr M unfairly and he 
thought the offer it had made for the poor service was reasonable.
Mr M was unhappy with the investigators recommendation. He said the investigators view 
contained made factual mistakes and that we had evidence that Lowell had ignored several 
emails hed sent about an email sent by mistake. Mr M said his settlement offer was only 
acknowledged after he escalated his complaint. Mr M said that Lowell was still sending 
letters to his old address after hed told it he no longer lives there.
Mr M said that when he referred to debts being statute barred, he wasnt referring to the 
debts with C and N. Mr M was referring to other debts that Lowell was collecting and using a 
third party to collect at the same time, which Mr M says is harassment. Mr M says hes 
entitled to see a true copy of each credit agreement and statement of account. A notice of 
assignment isnt enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Mr Ms s complaint in my own words but our rules allow me to 
do this. 
Im grateful for the clarification that Mr M has given to this service about his complaint. As he 
confirms he doesnt think the debts originally owed to N and C are statute barred, I dont 
need to say anything more about this. 
Mr M says that Lowell was also collecting two other debts and that these are statute barred. 
As far as I can see, Lowell mentioned one other debt originally held in the name of a 
business I will refer to as L. Lowell agrees that this debt is statute barred and says it hasnt 
contacted Mr M about this debt since July 2020. So, I cant reasonably find that Lowell has 
been harassing Mr M about the debt to L. As the account has been closed and is not being 
reported on Mr Ms credit file, I dont require Lowell to take any action in relation to the debt 
originally owed to L. 
Mr M says hes entitled to see a true copy of the credit agreements and statement of 
accounts but as far as I can see, Lowell has provided copies. The agreements that Lowell 
has provided include his name and address and theyve been signed with an electronic 
signature. Im satisfied that Lowell Portfolio owns the debts and that its reasonable for Lowell 
to request payment on Lowell Portfolios behalf. 
If Mr M has concerns about the enforceability of the agreements, that would be for the courts 
to decide. This service cant declare an agreement to be unenforceable, so my decision 
looks at whether Lowell has been chasing the debts has acted fairly and reasonably. Im 
satisfied that Lowell acted reasonably when pursuing repayment. And I dont consider that it 
has harassed Mr M. 
Lowell says that it received an email from Mr M in July 2021 asking for copy documents. It 
replied asking for Mr Ms date of birth to verify him. As it didnt receive a reply, Lowell didnt 
action the request at that time. I cant criticise Lowell for this. 
The next time that Lowell has a record of contact from Mr M was in late December 2021.   
Mr M was contacting Lowell frequently but this all took place over a relatively short period of 
time  from late December 2021 until February 2022. Although there were some delays, 
Lowell responded and apologised. It provided copies of the credit agreements and 
statements, confirmed that it had updated Mr Ms postal address and explained it didnt have 
a record of receiving the email sent by mistake. I dont have evidence to suggest that Mr M 
lost out financially because of the delays. So, Im satisfied that Lowells offer to pay Mr M 
£150 was fair.
Since Mr M complained, Lowell has confirmed that it would accept the offer of settlement 
that he made but that it would mark the two accounts as partially satisfied. I appreciate that Mr M is concerned about the impact this will have on his credit file but as its an accurate 
reflection of how the accounts have been managed, I cant require Lowell to mark the debts 
as fully satisfied. I leave it with Mr M to discuss settlement terms with Lowell if he chooses.
I do understand the driving force behind Mr Ms complaint is to highlight problems with the 
debt buying and debt collection sector. While I sympathise, the role of this service is to 
resolve individual complaints. It would be for the regulator to make decisions about the way 
in which businesses work. 
My final decision
Lowell has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that if it hasnt already done so, Lowell Financial Ltd should pay Mr M 
£150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman