DRN-2414797
The complaint
Miss H says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Miss H took out an M&S account card in 1996 by post. At the same time she opted for a PPI 
policy to protect her repayments. It gave her accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
The adjudicator thought that Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. Allianz disagreed so the
complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is contradictory (as some of it is here) I have reached my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I think it most likely given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz had to make sure it gave Miss H clear, fair and not misleading information at the time
of the sale so she could make an informed decision about whether to buy PPI, or not.
I dont think it did this. 
Miss H has told us she was self-employed at the time of the sale. And to make a successful 
unemployment claim, the conditions of the policy meant self-employed policyholders had to 
have officially terminated self-employed status due to business failure; to have stopped 
trading permanently; or to have put their business into the hands of a liquidator; or to have 
declared bankruptcy - and provide proof of this. 
So it would have been harder for Miss H to make an unemployment claim than a person who 
wasnt self-employed. I cant see Allianz made this clear to Miss H in the information it 
provided at the time of the sale.
And I dont think Miss H wouldve bought the policy if Allianz had given her enough clear 
information about it. So, I think Miss H has lost out because of what Allianz did wrong.
Allianz has questioned Miss Hs employment status at the time of the sale. It says whilst it 
agrees with who she worked for, she completed her application form as though she was 
employed and confirmed this when it spoke to her more recently. I think the evidence is 
contradictory however. Arguably, I would say she also entered the name of the business in 
the self-employed part of the form. And on our complaint questionnaire she said she was 
self-employed at the time of the sale. 
Miss H told us she no longer has any supporting documentation due to flooding at her home 
in 2007, and she then destroyed any remaining records once it was seven years after her 
business finished. So whilst I accept there have been inconsistencies in her testimony, given 
the organisation Miss H worked for, and how it employed its workers in the field at the time 
of this sale, I think it is most likely she was self-employed. 
It follows for the reasons set out above I think Miss H has lost out because of the problems 
with this sale. 
Putting things right
Allianz should put Miss H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
I understand the policy was cancelled in 1998 so:
A. Allianz should find out how much Miss H would have owed when she closed her credit
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. Allianz should then refund the 
difference between what Miss H owed when she closed her account and what she would 
have owed if she hadnt had PPI. If Miss H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, 
Allianz can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her. It can also 
deduct any refund of commission that it has already paid her.
B. Allianz should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss H would have
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when Allianz works out what Miss H would have owed each month without PPI 
Miss H paid more than enough to clear her balance, Allianz should also pay simple
interest on the extra Miss H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point
when Miss H wouldve owed Allianz something on her credit card. The interest rate
should be 8% a year from then on.
D. Allianz should tell Miss H what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Allianz to take off tax from this interest. Allianz must give Miss H a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is I am upholding Miss Hs complaint. Allianz Insurance Plc must put things right 
as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman