DRN-3616603
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) and says 
that it failed to transfer Direct Debits across to his new account with another provider. He 
says this caused payments to be missed, resulting in adverse entries on his credit file.
What happened
Mr S holds an account with HSBC which had numerous Direct Debits set up on it. In around 
September 2021, due to issues with one of the payees and concerns about the payments 
going out, Mr S says he asked for a meeting with HSBC to discuss the management of his 
account. He says that HSBC didnt arrange a meeting.
Mr S says that, in November 2021, he told HSBC that he was going to set up an account 
with another bank and move his funds across to that. He says this was communicated by 
email to a member of HSBCs staff who Ill call A. Mr S says that, later that month, he sent 
another email to A saying that he had set up the new account and asking for all future Direct 
Debit payments be taken from the new account. He provided the new account details. Mr S 
says he sent a further email to A in December 2021 in which he provided the details of his 
new account again and asked for all Direct Debits to be transferred to it.
Mr S didnt receive a response to these emails. But he says he also spoke to HSBC on the 
phone and visited a branch where he discussed the Direct Debit transfer with more than one 
member of staff. He says they told him his request had been logged. But the Direct Debits 
werent transferred. So the payees continued to seek payment from the HSBC account. The 
Direct Debits were returned unpaid as there werent enough funds in that account. Mr S says 
that missed payments were recorded on his credit file as a result.
When Mr S complained to HSBC it upheld some aspects of his complaint. It said it should 
have told Mr S that he wouldnt be able to have a meeting. It acknowledged that A hadnt 
replied to his email asking for the Direct Debits to be transferred. It also acknowledged that 
some calls had been cut off while Mr S was on hold. HSBC paid Mr S £125 as an apology 
for the stress and inconvenience caused by these issues.
But HSBC said it hadnt made a mistake in relation to the Direct Debits. It said it hadnt told 
Mr S that it had transferred them, so he shouldnt have assumed this had been done. And it 
said that, if payments had been missed, it couldnt prevent this from being reported to the 
Credit Reference Agencies.
Mr S wasnt happy with HSBCs response and brought the complaint to this service. He says 
he was told by HSBC on the phone and in the branch that the Direct Debit switch was 
confirmed. HSBC says that, where a customer moves to another provider and wants their 
Direct Debits transferred, the switch is managed by the new provider. It says it didnt receive 
a switch request from Mr Ss new bank. It also says that A didnt receive Mr Ss emails. 
Our Investigator didnt think HSBC needed to do anything more here. But Mr S didnt agree 
and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
switching Direct Debits
When a customer switches their account to another bank, its the new bank which takes on 
the task of switching payments over. The old bank is responsible for closing the old account. 
Here, I understand there wasnt a full switch in place as Mr S wasnt closing his HSBC 
account; he just wanted to move funds out of it and have the Direct Debits paid from his new 
account temporarily. In effect, Mr S just wanted the payees to collect their payments from a 
different account for a while. In that situation, the onus was on Mr S to provide his new 
account details to the payees so that they could amend the Direct Debit instructions. I dont 
find that it was HSBCs responsibility to move the Direct Debits across to Mr Ss new 
account. So I dont think it did anything wrong by not doing so.
But Mr S didnt know what the process was for changing the Direct Debits and says he 
asked HSBC to do it. He says that HSBC failed to tell him what the process was or that it 
couldnt action his request. He says that this failure resulted in payments being missed and 
negative entries being recorded on his credit file, causing him significant detriment. I find that 
HSBC didnt tell Mr S that it couldnt transfer the Direct Debits, or what needed to happen 
instead. But I dont think its responsible for the missed payments or negative reporting. Ill 
explain why.
Mr S says he asked for the Direct Debits to be transferred on numerous occasions  by 
email, over the phone and in the branch. He says he also asked for a meeting. There were 
numerous issues which he wanted to discuss at the meeting, which he says included the 
Direct Debits. Ive considered all the evidence provided by the parties.
emails
Looking at the emails first, a document provided by Mr S shows two emails from him to A in 
November 2021, as described above. It also shows two emails from Mr S to A on 10 
December 2021, sent around half an hour apart. The later one confirmed the details of his 
new account again and asked A to transfer all Direct Debits to the new account and provide 
him with an update. HSBC has also provided details of emails between Mr S and A. But 
these dont include the four Ive referred to here and HSBC says it didnt receive them. It 
says the earliest contact A had with Mr S was on 7 December 2021, followed by emails from 
9 December 2021 onwards. But these were about other issues, not the Direct Debits. On 
balance, I dont think HSBC received the emails about the Direct Debits. 
Mr S didnt receive a response to the emails. So I dont think he had reason to expect they 
had been actioned. He was in contact with A from 7 December and A was responsive on 
other issues. So I think it would have been reasonable for Mr S to ask A why they hadnt 
responded to the emails about the Direct Debits. It could then have come to light that A 
hadnt received them and I think its likely that some of the issues could have been avoided 
from that point on. 
Mr S has provided a copy of an email sent to him by another member of HSBCs staff 
towards the end of November 2021. Ill call this member of staff M. Ms message says I 
have been checking your file every day, and the direct debit change request is still being 
updated. This will be completed shortly. It goes on to ask whether Mr S wants all of the 
payments to go from his new account. Mr S says this email confirms he had asked HSBC to 
move all the Direct Debits across and that it had said it would do so. Mr S has provided some other messages between M and himself. Although there is reference to the DD 
matter, there is nothing more specific.
HSBC has also provided copies of the emails it holds between M and Mr S. These dont 
include the message which Mr S has provided. But there are some messages about the 
particular payee who Mr S had problems with in around September 2021. M recalls 
discussing this with Mr S but has no recollection of discussing Direct Debit switching with 
him. Even if a request to transfer the Direct Debits was logged (by M or someone else), I 
dont think the emails show that HSBC told Mr S it could or would move them across to his 
new bank. 
phone calls and branch visits
Mr S says he spoke to HSBC and was given assurances by more than one member of staff 
that the Direct Debits would be transferred. HSBC says it doesnt have any notes of 
discussions with Mr S about this, either in branch or over the telephone. I have no reason to 
doubt that Mr S went to the branch or that he spoke to different members of staff. But, from 
the information I have, I cant conclude that HSBC told him it would move the Direct Debits 
across to his new bank account.
meeting request
Mr S says that, if a meeting had happened, the process for moving the Direct Debits would 
have been clarified and the problems hes encountered would have been avoided. I think 
thats likely. But, as the meeting didnt take place, the issue wasnt discussed. 
Mr S has provided copies of numerous emails he sent to different people at HSBC asking for 
a meeting. Nothing was set up. HSBC says it wouldnt have been possible for Mr S to have a 
meeting with anyone from the department he wanted to speak to. But Mr S wasnt told this at 
the time. HSBC has apologised for this mistake and its covered by the compensation of 
£125 which HSBC has already paid. I think thats reasonable, so Im not going to ask HSBC 
to do any more about the meeting request. 
summary
In summary, I think HSBCs communication could have been better in some respects. But I 
dont think HSBC received all Mr Ss requests to transfer the Direct Debits and Im not 
satisfied that it told him it would transfer them.
But, even if HSBC did tell Mr S that, I still dont think its responsible for payments being 
missed and negative entries on his credit file. Thats because responsibility for ensuring 
payment reaches the payees on time lies with Mr S. So, I think its reasonable to expect him 
to have checked whether the Direct Debits had been moved across and whether the payees 
had been paid. This information would have been available from his new bank (as well as 
HSBC) and his statements would have shown whether the payments were being made.
the HSBC credit card
Finally, Ive considered the Direct Debit for Mr Ss HSBC credit card payments. He says that, 
as the payee, HSBC ought to have changed the Direct Debit instruction for this payment. As 
the payee, HSBC would have been able to change this Direct Debit. But it says it didnt 
receive a request to do so. I havent seen anything which enables me safely to conclude that 
HSBC received a specific instruction from Mr S to change the Direct Debit mandate for his 
credit card payments. So I dont think HSBC did anything wrong by not changing it.HSBC says there werent enough funds in the HSBC bank account to meet the credit card 
payments. So the Direct Debits were returned unpaid. It says it wrote to Mr S to tell him this 
and told him the Direct Debit had been cancelled. Mr Ss credit card statements would also 
have confirmed the status of the account. So I think Mr S was aware, or ought reasonably to 
have been aware, that the Direct Debit instruction hadnt been updated. So he knew that the 
payment would be collected from his HSBC account and the onus was on him to ensure 
there were enough funds in that account to meet the payments. In the circumstances, I dont 
find that HSBC was responsible for the credit card payments being missed. So I dont think it 
needs to change any credit file reporting of this.
conclusion
I know Mr S feels strongly about this complaint and Im sorry to disappoint him. But I dont 
think HSBC acted unfairly in relation to the Direct Debits. I think it has already done enough 
to put right the things it did get wrong. So Im not going to ask it to any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman