DRN-1679560
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage went live in 1989. However, the PPI policy wasnt sold to them 
until 1991. Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to cover Mr W.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W say they had a meeting to arrange the mortgage and they just signed the 
paperwork where they were instructed to. They say the PPI was added without their 
knowledge or consent.
Ive seen a copy of their mortgage application form. Theres a section for Insurance which 
included brief details of PPI. It states: If you require further information and a quotation 
please tick this box. The box next to it has been ticked and there is a handwritten note 
saying: Quote Provided. So although Mr and Mrs W apparently expressed interest in PPI at 
the time they were taking out the mortgage, they didnt end up buying it at that time. As 
mentioned above, the PPI wasnt actually taken out until 1991.
BoS doesnt have any details of how the policy was later sold to Mr and Mrs W, which is not 
surprising given how long ago it was. Clearly Mr and Mrs W have no recollection of the 
separate sale either, which is also not surprising. However, Mr and Mrs W have said that 
they had no reason to take out PPI, especially two years after the mortgage had already 
started.
Its most likely that Mr and Mrs W took out the PPI in 1991 in response to a direct marketing 
approach from BoS. As Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage had already been running for a couple of 
years by the time they bought the PPI, they cant have thought that the policy was a 
condition of the mortgage borrowing. The policy only covered Mr W, which suggests that the 
couple gave some thought to how they wanted the policy to work for them. From our 
knowledge of BoSs processes, we know that the policy would only have been set up if a PPI 
application form had been completed. On balance, based on the available evidence, I 
consider that Mr and Mrs W knew they had a choice about buying the PPI. It seems to me 
that they decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember 
doing so.
BoS has assumed that it advised Mr and Mrs W to buy the policy, which holds it to a higher 
standard. Thats because, in recommending the policy to them, it needed to ensure that it 
met their needs. And from what I know of Mr Ws circumstances at the time, the policy was 
suitable for him.
Mr W has said that he had excellent sickness benefits from his job. But the policy would 
have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr W would have 
received full pay for. Mr W says he could have relied on Mrs Ws income. But if Mr W wasnt 
working, the household income would have been significantly reduced. The couple has said 
that family would have helped. But presumably asking your wider family to pay your 
mortgage for you would be a last resort. And other people cant always be relied upon as 
their circumstances can change. Mr W says he had a life insurance policy. But that would 
only pay out upon his death and so was covering a different risk than the PPI. Overall, I 
consider that Mr W had a need for the policy and the couple could have benefitted from it at 
what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr W wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I consider that Mr and Mrs W had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I 
dont think that further information would have caused them to change their minds.
This means that BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. 
But BoS has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because: 
When the policy was sold, BoS expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about 
that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this and so I dont make any further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman