DRN-3875526
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc has not refunded him after he fell victim to a vehicle 
purchase scam in February 2019. Mr S brings his complaint with the assistance of 
professional representation, but for readability I will refer solely to Mr S throughout this 
decision.
What happened
Both sides are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I will not detail this at length. 
However, I will begin by briefly summarising what happened.
Mr S was looking to purchase a motorhome and saw one advertised on a well-known 
internet marketplace. He contacted the seller and following email correspondence he agreed 
to pay £4,200 for the motorhome, including delivery.
However, the motorhome did not arrive as had been agreed and Mr S realised hed been 
deceived. He reported the scam to Santander.
Santander attempted to recover Mr Ss money, but no funds remained in the recipient 
account. It said it wasnt liable to refund him  hed authorised this payment.
In 2022, Mr S complained to Santander. Santander reiterated that it didnt think it was liable 
to refund Mr S. 
Our Investigator considered the matter but didnt think Santander had treated Mr S unfairly. 
He didnt think Santander should have had sufficient concerns about the payment instruction 
to intervene before processing it. He didnt find it at fault for following its customers 
instructions and making the payment as Mr S had requested. Neither did he find Santander 
was at fault for any other reason or that it was otherwise liable for the money Mr S had lost 
to the scammer.
Mr S didnt agree with the Investigators findings. Because of this disagreement Ive been 
asked to make a final decision on Mr Ss complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so, I have reached broadly the same conclusions as those of the Investigator 
and for similar reasons. I realise this will be a disappointment for Mr S, so Id like to explain 
why.
Firstly, Im extremely sorry to hear about what happened. Mr S was tricked into sending 
money to someone to purchase a motorhome but who instead took his money and gave 
nothing in return. He was the victim of an APP scam and hes been left out of pocket by a 
significant sum as a result. Hes explained the impact this has had on him. 
However, the main cause of his loss was the scammer who deceived Mr S.  It does not 
necessarily follow that Santander is responsible to reimburse him.
Its worth mentioning at this point that, since May 2019, a voluntary code exists to provide 
additional protection against APP scams (the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code  
CRM Code). Santander is a signatory to this code. But as the Investigator explained, the 
CRM Code is not retrospective. Because this payment was made before the date the CRM 
Code took effect, the provisions of the CRM Code arent relevant to Mr Ss complaint.
However, while I therefore find the CRM Code does not apply here, that Code is not the full 
extent of the relevant obligations that could apply in cases such as this. 
First of all, under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and 
conditions, banks have an obligation to execute an authorised payment instruction without 
undue delay. As a consequence, the starting position is that liability for an authorised 
payment rests with the payer, even if they made that payment as the consequence of a fraud 
or scam - for example as part of a purchase scam such as this was. 
However, where the customer made the payments as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though the customer authorised the transactions. I consider that a bank also has a duty 
to take reasonable steps to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams.
Of course, there is a balance to be struck here. It would not be realistic or practical to expect 
a bank to intervene prior to processing payment in the vast majority of the huge number of 
payments that take place daily. But I consider that as a matter of good industry practice 
Santander should have been looking out for payments or payment patterns that were 
significantly out of character or unusual and that might therefore be indicative of the potential 
for financial detriment to its customer through fraud or a scam. In other words, in situations 
where on the face of things, there was an apparent and significant risk of financial harm to 
the customer through fraud or scams.
With all of the above in mind, Ive thought carefully about whether the available evidence 
demonstrates that Santander did enough - given the specific circumstances here. Ultimately, 
the test I need to apply here is whether the evidence is such that I consider Santander ought 
to have had significant concerns that the payment could be indicative of possible financial 
harm through fraud or a scam  to the extent that this would have overcome its primary 
obligation to carry out Mr Ss payment instructions.
The payment Mr S sent as part of this scam from his Santander account was for the sum of 
£4,200. Mr S argues that the size of this payment was unusually large and uncharacteristic 
of his prior account usage. 
While Ive carefully considered the points Mr S has made, I dont consider this payment was 
so significantly out of character or unusual that I could find Santander at fault for not having 
taken further steps or intervened before processing it. The size of this payment wasnt so 
much larger than other payments made on his account that in itself this factor should have 
been a cause for concern.
Mr S argues that a matching sum was received into his Santander account from a loan just prior to making the payment, and that this should have been identified as an indicator of a 
fraud or scam. 
Ive considered what Mr S says on this point, but I dont think this factor ought necessarily to 
have caused Santander significant concern. I dont think it is particularly unusual for a 
customer funding the purchase of a vehicle to obtain a loan and then use the loan proceeds 
to pay for it. I dont find the loan itself indicative of this being a scam in the circumstances of 
this case. Rather, had the seller turned out to be genuine the transactions on Mr Ss 
Santander account seem to me likely to have proceeded in exactly the same manner  
I think it most likely hed still have obtained a loan and used those funds to make the 
payment.
On balance, and taking everything into consideration, I do not find that there was enough 
here for me to say Santander should have intervened rather than fulfil its primary obligation 
to carry out Mr Ss instructions. 
Further I am satisfied that when Santander was made aware of the scam, it took the 
appropriate actions. This included its attempts to recover Mr Ss lost funds  however, theyd 
already been moved on from the recipient account, and nothing remained to be recovered.
Overall, I dont find Santander was at fault here. I cant fairly require Santander to refund this 
payment.
In saying this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr S and 
I am sorry he has lost out. Mr S was the victim of a crime  a scam carefully designed to 
defraud him of his money. I appreciate that what hes lost here is a significant sum and has 
had a significant impact on him since. But it is simply the case that I dont find Santander 
was at fault in making the payment in line with the instruction Mr S gave to the bank at the 
time, and I dont find the bank liable to refund him for any other reason.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman