DRN-2196448
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B originally took the mortgage out in 1978. However, they did not buy PPI at that 
time. It was in 1984 and again in 1993 that Nationwide sold them PPI.
The PPI sold in 1984 provided cover just for Mr B for accident and sickness only. The policy 
sold in 1993 was joint cover for both Mr and Mrs B, for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Nationwides view is that it did not mis-sell the first policy in 1984. However, for the 1993 
sale it said that it should not have sold the policy to Mrs B, so it refunded the premiums that 
covered her half of the policy.
Our adjudicator partly upheld the complaint. He agreed with Nationwide that the 1984 policy 
had not been mis-sold. However, he thought that the 1993 policy was mis-sold in its entirety 
as it shouldnt have been sold to Mr B either. He therefore recommended that Nationwide 
should refund all of the premiums.
Neither Nationwide nor Mr and Mrs B agree with the adjudicators opinion and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our adjudicator has treated an amendment to the policy in 1996 as a new sale. However, 
there was just an updating of the policy terms with Mr and Mrs B being written to at that time 
to tell them of the changes to their existing policy, so there was no new sale. Therefore, this 
decision is dealing with the sales of PPI in 1984 and 1993 only. The second policy ended in 
2003 when the mortgage ended.
On another note, our adjudicator has said that the mortgage is still active. Mr and Mrs B say 
this is untrue and therefore what Nationwide says shouldnt be trusted. However, the 
mortgage is still open in the sense that it transferred to Nationwides deed safe scheme in 
2003 with a nominal balance of £1. As there is a credit balance on the account, the credit is 
technically still active.
The 1984 sale
Mr and Mrs B have said that the PPI was a condition of the mortgage. However, they 
arranged the mortgage in 1978 and didnt buy PPI at that time. Nationwide later wrote to 
them to tell them about the availability of PPI, which was then called Mortgage Payment 
Protection Plan and Mr and Mrs B bought it in 1984. As the mortgage had already been 
running for six years by that point, Mr and Mrs B cannot have thought that they needed to 
have PPI as a condition of the borrowing. On balance, I consider that they decided to buy 
the policy, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
If Nationwide advised Mr and Mrs B to buy the policy, then it had a duty to ensure that the 
policy met Mr Bs needs, as the person being covered.  And from what I know about Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for him. He was eligible for the policy and 
could have benefitted from it. Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information 
as it should have about the policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr B 
wasnt affected by any of those things. 
Mr B says he wasnt told that there was a 30 day waiting period before he could make a 
claim. But the policy would have paid out for up to 12 months per claim after that. From what 
Mr and Mrs B have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they would still have 
wanted a policy that protected their home from being at risk for up to a year if Mr B was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness. So I dont think further information would have 
caused Mr and Mrs B to change their minds about buying the policy. Therefore, they are no 
worse off as a result of anything that Nationwide may have done wrong, so theres nothing 
that Nationwide needs to do to put things right.
The 1993 sale
Nationwide was discontinuing its Mortgage Payment Protection Plan (MPPP) at the end of 
1992 and instead was offering a PPI product called Mortgage Care. So it wrote to its 
customers that had MPPP to offer them the chance to continue having PPI in the form of 
Mortgage Care and it seems clear that this is what happened with Mr and Mrs B. There was 
clearly some sales process involved as Mr and Mrs B ended up choosing a different benefit 
split on the PPI so that they were both covered equally.
Mrs B wasnt working at the time and was therefore not eligible for the policy. That is why 
Nationwide offered to refund half of the premiums plus interest.
I dont know whether Nationwide advised Mr and Mrs B to buy the policy or not. But even if 
they did not, they still needed to provide Mr and Mrs B with enough information for them to 
be able to make an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for them.
Mr B was self-employed. Looking at the policy terms, Mr B would have found it more difficult 
to make an unemployment claim than an employed person.
Nationwide has said that Mr B has been inconsistent about his circumstances at that time, 
telling it that he was a sole trader and then later telling us that he had his own company. I do 
feel that there has been some confusion about the dates, with Mr and Mrs B initially referring 
to their circumstances at the point that they took out the mortgage in 1978. However, I dont 
think it really matters because, based on the available evidence, the terms for making an 
unemployment claim were onerous for self-employed people, regardless of whether they 
were sole traders or ran a company. 
Nationwide has also said that Mr B would still have been able to make use of the accident 
and sickness part of the policy and that in fact he did make a successful claim for a bad back 
in 2002 and received £57.95 benefit. However, I dont think that Mr B would have agreed to 
buy the policy if hed have known that he might not be covered for unemployment.
It follows that I uphold the mis-sale complaint in regard to the 1993 sale.
 
Putting things rightNationwide should put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would be in now if they hadnt taken 
out PPI in 1993. I note that Nationwide has already paid redress in relation to Mrs Bs half of 
the policy. So, Nationwide should pay Mr and Mrs B:
- The amount paid for Mr Bs half of the policy each month
- Add simple interest to each payment from when it was paid until Mr and Mrs B get it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year
- Nationwide can deduct the amount of £57.95 that Mr B received for his successful 
claim from the amount it owes them
- Nationwide can deduct the amount already paid back to Mr and Mrs B for unfair 
commission from the above calculation.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint in relation to the 1984 sale. 
However I do uphold the complaint about the 1993 sale and require Nationwide Building 
Society to pay fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman