DRN-4001902
The complaint
Mr and Mr M complain that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited wont consider a 
claim under their serious illness cover. They say they were told a further claim would be 
considered. 
For convenience, at times I will distinguish Mr and Mr M by referring to them as Mr M1 (first 
life assured) and Mr M2 (second life assured).
Prudential is the underwriter of this policy, that is, the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of agents. As Prudential has accepted its accountable for those actions, in my 
decision, any reference to Prudential includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
To summarise, in December 2013 Mr and Mr M took out joint Life and Serious Illness cover 
with Prudential. They also took out Serious Illness Cover Booster. This cover offered 
additional protection in the event of diagnosis with a covered condition and diagnosis with a 
defined long-term debilitating disease. The initial amount of cover provided by the plan 
account was £180,000. And the core serious illness cover was 100% of the plan account.  
Most unfortunately, in August 2014, Mr M2 was involved in an accident, resulting in life-
changing injuries. In October 2014, Mr M1 started a claim on their policy, under the serious 
illness cover. 
In November 2014, an initial payment of 25% of the plan account was paid out. Following 
further medical evidence, provided by Mr M2s treating specialist, the remaining 75% of the 
plan account was paid out in April 2015, with the Serious Illness Cover Booster applied for 
diagnosis with a covered condition. At that time, Mr M2 didnt meet the definition for long-
term debilitating disease, so was not eligible for any further booster payment.
In January 2022, Mr M1 contacted Prudential again, looking to make an additional claim. As 
Mr M2 was no longer able to work, Mr and Mr M believed he would now qualify for a 
payment under the serious illness cover booster of an additional 80% of the plan account  
payable for diagnosis with a long-term debilitating disease.
Prudential told Mr and Mr M the policy was no longer in force. It had ended in April 2015 
when the plan account was fully paid out. Mr and Mr M complained, saying they had been 
told a further claim would be possible. But Prudential maintained its position. It said Mr M2 
wouldve been eligible for 180% of the plan account if hed met the relevant criteria at the 
time, or if he had cover remaining and his policy was still in force after the original claim.
 
Mr and Mr M brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator 
looked into things for them. Initially, she partly upheld their complaint. She didnt agree that 
Prudential should consider Mr and Mr Ms additional claim. But she thought their 
expectations shouldve been better managed and that Prudential should pay them £500 
compensation to reflect this.
Neither party accepted the investigators opinion. Mr and Mr M requested an ombudsmans 
decision. Prudential referred to an email sent to Mr M1 in April 2015, confirming the plan was 
now out of force and detailing the relevant terms for when a plan ends. 
Following this, our investigator issued a second opinion, saying she thought Prudential had 
made it clear the plan had ended and no further claims would be considered. She did not 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mr M made further representations. They said the policy literature and information 
theyd received from Prudential led them to believe a further claim could be considered. 
They sought that consideration and additional compensation. As the complaint remained 
unresolved, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I was sorry to hear of Mr M2s accident. I appreciate this was a very traumatic event, 
with ongoing consequences for both Mr and Mr M. Having considered everything carefully, I 
am, in part, upholding their complaint. But I appreciate this will not be the news Mr and Mr M 
were hoping for. My decision is in no way intended to minimise their experiences, which I 
accept have been very challenging. Ill explain further, focusing on the points and evidence I 
consider material to my decision. So if I dont refer to a particular point or piece of evidence, 
its not because I havent thought about it. Rather, I dont consider it changes the outcome of 
the complaint. No discourtesy is intended by this. It simply reflects the more informal nature 
of our service. 
My role is to decide if Prudential treated Mr and Mr M unfairly in refusing to consider their 
additional claim, made in January 2022. Ive looked at the policy terms regarding when a 
policy ends. Section F1 sets out the various termination scenarios. The relevant term in this 
complaint is:
Your plan will end whenyour plan account reduces to zero after a claim.
This term is supported by an additional term at section B2.7, explaining what happens if a 
customer needs to make a subsequent claim. It says:
When we make payments under Serious Illness Cover, the value of your plan 
account reduces by the amount we have paid you. The maximum amount available 
for future claims will be the remaining value of the plan account. If the amount we 
have paid you is equal to or greater than the value of your plan account, your Serious 
Illness Cover will come to an end. 
Ive also seen the email sent to Mr M1 in April 2015 confirming that the Serious Illness Cover 
booster benefit was approved and therefore the additional 75% benefit had been submitted 
for payment. The email goes on to confirm:
As we have now paid the full 100% of the plan account the plan will now be placed 
out of force.
The writer refers Mr M1 to the plan terms and quotes the term at section F1 Ive detailed 
above, confirming when the plan will end. Mr and Mr M say they were led to believe a further complaint would be considered, should 
Mr M2s health deteriorate. Ive looked at the relevant emails. In an email dated 13 
November 2014, Prudential said:
As previously mentioned, we are going to review the claim on the 16th February... If 
at that point the specialist confirms permanent neurological deficit with persisting 
clinical symptoms we will pay the claim based on our Traumatic Head Injury or Coma 
definition which will be 100% as you have the SIC Booster. So at that point we will 
pay the 75% balance to you.
I attach a Sales Aid on the SIC booster which confirms which conditions are boosted 
under both 'prominent condition' and 'long term condition' boost. You will see that if 
[Mr M2] was unable to go back to his Own Occupation ever again [my emphasis] 
due to his condition, this will qualify for a payment under the 'long term condition' 
boost. 
In a further email dated 16 February 2015, Prudential said:
If it is decided that [Mr M2] doesn't qualify for the long term boost at this time, we can 
assess that at a later time. So if we haven't got enough evidence to pay the long term 
boost now, we can re-assess with new medical information i.e. [Mr M2] going back to 
work but not being able to continue as he finds it too much.
As far as I can see, Mr and Mr M havent disputed being told the plan had ended in the April 
2015 email. They were no longer paying premiums and in his email to Prudential in January 
2022, Mr M1 says:
I understand that [Mr M2] had [my emphasis] the Serious Illness Cover Booster on 
the plan, and that he is able to make a further claim. 
But even knowing the plan had ended, on the basis of what theyd been told, Mr and Mr M 
maintained their belief that a further claim was possible. Mr M1 has argued: 
It is also clear that if the benefit amount is paid out and the plan ceases that you 
MUST be able to claim at a later date when no premiums are being paid and the plan 
has ended as this is the way it is designed. 
I dont agree with this view. Ive not seen anything in the terms about any ongoing 
requirement to consider a claim for a deterioration in health after the plan has ended. No 
insurer provides indefinite cover. And its generally understood that cover is provided in 
exchange for a premium, and that claims are only considered for events occurring within the 
life of the policy, not those that happen when its no longer in force.
Mr and Mr M have also referred to a sales leaflet and in particular the following comment 
relating to boosted payments for long-term illnesses: 
If your clients are diagnosed with a defined long-term debilitating disease, well boost 
their payout from 100% up to 200% depending on their age at the time of their claim. 
It appears this leaflet is for advisers to provide product information to customers. But I dont 
think the sentence quoted above can be taken to say a booster will be paid in any 
circumstances or at any time. Policy conditions - such as those relating to when a policy is 
live - will apply, as set out in the plan schedule and terms. Overall, I dont think Prudential has done anything wrong in not considering Mr and Mr Ms 
additional claim. Theres no obligation on Prudential to consider a claim once the policy has 
ended, so Im not going to direct it to do so. 
But I do think Prudential failed to properly inform Mr and Mr M of the consequences of Mr M2 
being eligible for the covered condition booster, but not eligible for the long-term condition 
booster in 2015. I acknowledge the emails referred to previously were sent before Prudential 
had had the benefit of a further medical report from the treating specialist and therefore, 
before the claim was finalised. But I think the content is misleading and I can see why, 
despite the plan having ended, Mr and Mr M still believed the door remained open in terms 
of a subsequent claim. Prudential shouldve done more to manage their expectations.
Mr and Mr M have had that belief and expectation for some years and, having now found out 
that they were misinformed, have suffered distress and inconvenience for the loss of that 
expectation. Our investigator initially suggested £500 compensation reflected the distress 
and inconvenience caused and I agree this figure is reasonable in all the circumstances.  
Putting things right
Prudential should pay Mr and Mr M £500 compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited to pay compensation to Mr and Mr M as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman