DRN-3428001
The complaint
Mrs T complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial 
Services (Alphera) didnt provide the service it should have done after she took a payment 
deferral.  
What happened
Mrs T entered into a hire purchase agreement with Alphera in July 2017 to acquire a car. 
She contacted Alphera to request a payment deferral as she was experiencing financial 
issues due to the Covid-19 pandemic. She says that since then she has experienced issues 
dealing with Alphera. She says Alphera is hard to contact and when she does make contact 
and agreements are made these are then changed. Mrs T says she hasnt received the 
service she should have and has challenged the £75 a month charge for depreciation. 
Alphera issued a final response letter in July 2021. It said that Mrs T was made aware of the 
additional charges for the payment deferral and that it explained how the arears had arisen 
on her account. It said that adverse information hadnt been recorded on Mrs Ts credit file. It 
accepted that mistake was made as the £25 payment for April, May and June 2021 wasnt 
set up correctly and it offered to pay £50 as a gesture of goodwill because of this.  
Mrs T didnt accept Alpheras offer of £50 and referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator thought Alphera had made Mrs T aware of the arrears balance on her 
account and had fairly provided payment deferrals. He thought Mrs T had been provided 
with the information about the depreciation charge and didnt think this had been applied 
unfairly. He said Alphera had confirmed no adverse information had been recorded on 
Mrs T's credit file. He noted the issue with the payment for the £25 not being set up correctly 
and thought the compensation for this offered by Alphera was reasonable. 
Mrs T didnt agree with our investigators view. She didnt think it took into account the poor 
service she had received, and the time spent trying to deal with Alphera and the stress this 
had caused her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the timeline of events and can see Mrs T initially contacted Alphera in 
March 2020 to explain her situation. At this time there wasnt any guidance in place 
specifically relating to customers experience problems due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but 
the existing rules meant Alphera was required to treat Mrs T fairly and sympathetically. 
Alphera said it put in place a two month reduced payment plan which I find reasonable. 
Mrs T was required to pay 50% of her normal payments which resulted in arrears at the end 
of the two months of £525.
In April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) brought in guidance for people in motor 
finance agreements who were experiencing temporary difficulties due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. This said that three month payment deferrals should be provided unless the firm 
considered this to not be in the customers interest. In July 2020, this guidance extended this 
to include a second three month payment deferral bringing the total to six months of 
payment deferrals. Mrs T requested a three month payment deferral in May 2020 and a 
further three month payment deferral in August 2020. These were agreed and I find these 
actions were reasonable given Mrs Ts circumstances and that Alphera acted in line with the 
guidance.
Under the guidance, Alphera was allowed to continue to charge interest through the deferral 
period. I have looked at the information that was sent to Mrs T and can see that she was 
sent letters to explain that her agreement would be extended for the period of the payment 
deferral and that she would need to continue to pay for this time but would have use of the 
car. Mrs T was also sent a letter that included a table showing the impact of the payment 
deferrals including the additional interest charges and depreciation charge as well as the 
reduced optional final payment and total monthly repayments resulting from this. She was 
then sent a letter dated 14 August which confirmed her payment deferral and set out the 
amounts that would be payable from November 2020. I think Alphera gave Mrs T the 
information she needed to be aware of the costs that would arise due to the payment 
deferrals.
I note Mrs Ts question about the depreciation charge and Alphera response that this charge 
was applied due to the agreement being extended to reflect the payment deferral periods 
and that the optional final price was reduced to reflect this. I accept that Mrs T was made 
aware of this charge, but I have also looked at her situation to consider whether I think she 
was disadvantaged because of this. 
When Mrs T entered into the finance agreement the optional final payment was recorded as 
£13,912. This was reduced following her payment deferrals to £12,855. The difference was 
then collected by Alphera through the deprecation charge. Alphera has said that Mrs T paid 
a total of £981.50 in depreciation charges. As Mrs T paid the optional final payment I do not 
find that she was disadvantaged as the final payment amount had been reduced to reflect 
the deprecation charges paid.
I note Mrs Ts comment about the amount she was told she needed to pay to settle the 
agreement. However, Alphera confirmed the settlement figure on 10 January as being 
£13,456 which was made up of the £12,855 balloon payment (which is in line with the 
amount quoted in previous correspondence) plus the £602 payment that was due on 22 
January. Mrs T says she was then told she would need to pay £14,438 however Alphera has 
explained that this amount included the depreciation charges that Mrs T had paid since her 
payment deferral which was credited meaning the amount she paid was the settlement 
amount quoted. Therefore, I do not find that Alphera did anything wrong in regard to the 
settlement amount.
Alphera has confirmed that adverse information hasnt been recorded on Mrs Ts credit file.
Overall, I understand that Mrs T doesnt feel she has been provided with the service she 
should have by Alphera, and I do not underestimate the time she has spent trying to keep 
Alphera up to date, to understand her options and the stress this situation has caused. 
However, in this case, Mrs T was provided with the payment deferrals in line with the 
relevant guidance and further actions were taken to support her after this time with reduced 
payments being accepted and arrangements being put in place. I can see that there was an 
error in setting up the £25 payments for three months, but I think the £50 offered is 
reasonable for this. I appreciate Mrs T has struggled to get the response she has wanted from Alphera, but I think it has tried to assist her and to provide with the information she 
needed through this period. Because of this I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial 
Services should pay Mrs T £50 compensation as it offered in its final response letter (if this 
hasnt already happened). I do not require it to do anything further in resolution of this 
complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman