DRN-3920114
The complaint
Mr A complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) is refusing to refund him the amount he lost as the 
result of a scam. 
Mr A is being represented by a third party. To keep thigs simple I will refer to Mr A 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, around December 2021 Mr A was approached by an individual on Instagram. I 
will call this person X. X explained he was a financial advisor working for the trading platform 
Fortradecoin Investment Company (F).
Mr A was advised by X that he would make a £5,000 profit if he invested £10,000 and was 
also told that he would have to make the investment in small payments due to an error with 
Fs platform that prevented larger payments being received.
Mr A tells us that towards the end of December 2021 he was told the investment had already 
reached a significant sum, but he would have to make several more payments for the funds 
to be released. Mr A was happy to pay the amounts X had requested as X had built a 
trusting relationship with him.
Mr A realised there was an issue when he contacted F through the phone number displayed 
on its website. F told him that it was unable to find an account in Mr As name. Mr A 
contacted X to confront him about the information he had found but X denied the information 
Mr A had found and contested it was a legitimate investment.
Mr A didnt believe the information provided by F and blocked him.
Mr A had made more than 50 payments into the scam totalling over £12,000. Payments 
were made from Mr As debit card to cryptocurrency exchanges and then from those 
accounts to the scammer.
Our Investigator considered Mr As complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr A 
disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Recovering the payments Mr A made
Mr A made the payments into the scam via his debit card. When payments are made by card 
the only recovery option Revolut have is to request a chargeback
Revolut was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr A made in relation to this 
scam to the cryptocurrency exchanges.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr A was dealing with X, which was the person that instigated the scam. But Mr A didnt 
make the debit card payments to X directly, he paid separate cryptocurrency exchanges. 
This is important because Revolut was only able to process chargeback claims against the 
merchants he paid, not another party.
The service provided by the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been to convert or 
facilitate conversion of Mr As payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, they provided the 
service that was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchants Mr A paid. As they provided the 
requested service to Mr A any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
I have considered if Mr A should have received a refund under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. But the CRM code doesnt apply to card payments so 
Im satisfied the CRM Code wouldnt apply in this scenario.
Should Revolut have reasonably prevented the payments Mr A made?
Mr A has accepted he authorised the payments he made from his account, albeit on Xs 
instruction, so the starting point here is that Mr A is responsible. However, banks and other 
Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial 
loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against 
money laundering.
The question here is whether Revolut should have stepped in when Mr A was attempting to 
make the payments, and if it had, would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.
I have considered whether the payments Mr A made in relation to the scam should have 
triggered Revoluts fraud prevention systems causing it to step in and prevent any of the 
payments being made.
Although the payments Mr A made were to a new business, they were all for a relatively low 
amount, even when payments were made in the same day, they did not total a significant 
amount. The payments were also made over several months with no complaint from Mr A. 
Considering the size of the payments and that they were spread out over several months I 
dont think it was unreasonable that Revoluts fraud prevention systems were not triggered.
As Revoluts fraud prevention systems werent triggered it did not miss an opportunity to step 
in and prevent Mr As loss and is therefore not responsible.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman