DRN-3620821
The complaint
Ms C complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund money she lost to an 
investment scam. 
What happened
Ms C met someone through a dating application, and they suggested they could help her 
make money from cryptocurrency. Ms C set up an account with Binance  a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange  and began sending money from her Santander account. The 
cryptocurrency was then sent on to a trading a platform which unfortunately later turned out 
to be a scam.
Ms C started off with an initial deposit of £200 on 31 March 2021 which she sent through the 
faster payments system. She was able to make two withdrawals from her Binance account 
as well. Ms C then started depositing funds by making debit card payments. Over the next 
few days, Santander blocked several payments to Binance for amounts ranging between 
£4,000 and £5,000. On two occasions, Ms C phoned Santander and confirmed the 
payments were genuine. Santander updated its system and Ms Cs next payment attempt 
was successful. 
On 7 April, Ms C sent two faster payments  of £940 and £3,465  to different personal 
accounts in connection with the cryptocurrency opportunity. A further faster payment of 
£13,090 on 11 April to a cryptocurrency exchange triggered Santanders systems and it 
made enquiries to satisfy itself that all was well. Ms C didnt continue with the payment when 
it was referred again despite being verified. Instead, she made an international payment for 
a similar amount to an individual payee and it was released without additional checks. 
Between 16 and 30 April, Ms C made several faster payments totalling £69,600 to her 
account with another bank in the UK and subsequently sent it on to Binance. 
Ms C eventually realised shed been the victim of a scam when she attempted to withdraw 
funds from the trading platform and was asked to pay tax. She spoke to Santander about 
what had happened and asked for help in recovering her money. It was only able to recover 
£113.40 of the £940 that she sent to a personal account. Santander also looked into a 
complaint for Ms C but didnt uphold it, saying that shed willingly made the payments. 
Ms C brought her complaint to our service and our investigator didnt uphold it either. They 
acknowledged that Santander could have done more during the first two intervention calls, 
but it was unlikely to have made any difference based on the responses Ms C gave during 
the third call when sufficiently probing questions were asked. In relation to the two faster 
payments which were covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, 
the investigator wasnt persuaded that Ms C had a reasonable basis for belief. They also 
thought that Santander didnt do anything wrong in relation to the recovery of funds once it 
was notified of the scam.
Ms C didnt agree and so the matter was escalated to me for a decision. Ms Cs also 
complained about payments sent from her other bank. That is being considered separately 
by our service and isnt the subject matter of this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure both parties that although Ive only summarised the background and 
arguments, Ive read and considered everything thats been submitted. Having done so, 
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Ms C authorised the disputed payments she made to Binance, 
as well as the two faster payments and the international payment. They were 
requested by her using her legitimate security credentials provided by Santander, 
and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers and execute payments without undue delay. However, Ive considered 
whether Santander should have done more to prevent Ms C from falling victim to the 
scam, as there are some situations in which a bank ought reasonably to have taken a 
closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular payment. 
Having reviewed the transactions, I dont think the first few payments were 
particularly unusual in themselves to have warranted an intervention by Santander. 
But by 5 April, when Ms C attempted successive card payments for £5,000, I think 
the banks fraud detection systems ought to have triggered. And they did. But, like 
the investigator, I dont think Santander made sufficient enquiries about the relevant 
payment when it spoke to Ms C that day. The same goes for the call that took place 
two days later. Both times, Santander only checked that it was Ms C who had made 
the payment. 
However, even if Santander had asked suitably probing questions about the purpose 
of the payments at these times, Im not persuaded it would have stopped Ms C in her 
tracks and limited her loss. In reaching that finding, Ive carefully considered the 
discussion that took place between Ms C and Santander during a call that took place 
a few days later on 11 April. The agent made extensive enquiries about the payment 
and highlighted the prevalence of cryptocurrency scams, including checking the 
regulators Register for firms and individuals for any warnings about the firm Ms C 
was sending the payment to. Ive listened to the call and Ms C was asked several 
questions including how she came to know about the investment opportunity, how 
she found out about the firm, whether shed been researching it for a while, if anyone 
had given instructions to her to make the payments, and whether shed been told to 
move money by someone shed recently met. 
I find that the agent asked sufficiently probing questions to satisfy themselves that 
Ms C wasnt falling victim to a scam. They also informed her about the fraud risks 
associated with cryptocurrency payments. I accept that the agent could have asked 
additional questions, specifically about the trading platform where Ms Cs funds were 
ultimately destined for. Its possible that such line of questioning might have 
uncovered the scam given there were warnings about that firm likely being a clone. 
But Im also mindful that the series of questions the agent asked Ms C flowed from 
the answers she had been giving. In my judgement, Ms C wasnt forthcoming with 
her answers; she was specifically asked if someone shed recently met had asked 
her to move money, but she didnt tell Santander that shed been introduced to 
cryptocurrency trading by someone shed recently met on a dating application. This 
could have been a red flag to the bank and would have likely prompted further questioning. Under the circumstances, Im not persuaded that an earlier intervention 
would have led to a different outcome.
In relation to the two faster payments specifically, Ive considered whether Santander 
ought to have reimbursed Ms C under the provisions of the CRM Code. It requires 
banks to reimburse customers who have been victims of authorised push payment 
(APP) scams in all but limited circumstances. Ive thought about the relevant 
exceptions set out in the Code and Im not persuaded that Ms C had a reasonable 
basis for believing that the payments were for a genuine investment with a legitimate 
business. Her payments, which were sent in connection to the cryptocurrency 
opportunity, went into personal accounts of individuals. I think Ms C ought reasonably 
to have had some concerns about the risks associated with these payments and so I 
dont think Santander acted unfairly by relying on the exception that she didnt have a 
reasonable basis for belief. Ive also thought about whether Santander did enough to 
protect Ms C from financial harm. The Code says that where firms identify APP scam 
risks in a payment journey, they should provide effective warnings to their customers. 
It also says that the assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should 
involve consideration of whether compliance with that standard would have had a 
material effect on preventing the scam. In the circumstances of this case, I dont think 
that any warning would have made a difference. It seems that Ms C was under the 
spell of the scammer whod persuaded her to invest in cryptocurrency. Referring 
back to the intervention call of 11 April, I dont think that any warning from Santander 
about fraud at the time of the CRM-covered payments would have stopped her from 
going ahead with them.
With regards to the payments Ms C sent to her own account with her another bank, 
I dont think that they warranted further probing. Even if I were to make a finding that 
the larger payments ought to have triggered Santanders fraud detection systems, 
ultimately she was sending money to her own account. A bank must balance the 
extent to which it intervenes in payments to try and prevent fraud against the risk of 
unnecessarily inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions. For completeness, 
these transactions arent covered under by the CRM Code.  
Ive also thought about whether Santander could have done more to recover the 
funds after Ms C reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be 
recovered. In relation to the debit card payments, Ms C made payments to a 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange before the funds were subsequently transferred 
on to the scammer. She wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim in 
the circumstances because the firm she paid had provided the services as intended 
(i.e. purchase of cryptocurrency). So, I dont think Santander was under any 
obligation to raise a chargeback dispute for Ms C. For the faster and international 
payments, Santander contacted the beneficiary banks as soon as it was notified of 
the scam. Unfortunately, except for the £113.40, no other funds remained. I dont 
think Santander could have done anything further in this regard. 
In summary, I recognise that this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms C. Im sorry to 
hear that shes been the victim of a cruel scam. But I dont consider Santander can fairly or 
reasonably be held responsible for the loss shes suffered.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman