DRN-4471227
The complaint
Mr G complains that St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc incorrectly advised him to 
take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan, rather than join his 
cheaper, in-house Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) scheme.
Mr G would now like SJP to see if hes lost out financially because of their advice and 
recompense him accordingly.
Mr G is being represented by a third party but for ease, Ill refer to all submissions as coming 
from him.
What happened
In November 1999, Mr G met with an adviser from SJP to discuss his investment and 
retirement planning needs. At the time, he was 31 years old and wanted to explore investing 
monies that hed received from a recent inheritance, with a view to increasing his benefits 
when he gave up work. Following a number of interactions, SJPs adviser recommended he 
repay some debts, fund his ISA and an investment bond, and set up a FSVAC with a 
premium of £250 per month, matching his medium attitude towards risk.
In September 2022, Mr G decided to formally complain to SJP. In summary, he said that he 
didnt believe SJPs advice to set up a FSAVC was appropriate when his company offered a 
cheaper, in-house option. He went on to say that at the time, he was an inexperienced 
investor who didnt wish to take any risk and as such, SJP should have advised him to join 
his company AVC scheme instead. Mr G said that, had he been shown the difference in 
charges, he wouldve most certainly opted for his in-house added years scheme compared 
to SJPs FSAVC.
After reviewing Mr Gs complaint, SJP concluded that they were satisfied theyd done 
nothing wrong. They also said, in summary, that their adviser highlighted his employers in-
house scheme, but Mr G had decided not to explore it further. They went on to say that they 
didnt believe Mr G was risk averse based on the evidence that they held within their file and 
as such, he was open to taking risks with his monies.
Mr G was unhappy with SJPs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he explained that he shouldve been advised to take his employers in-house 
AVC. He also didnt think that SJP should have advised him to take out a FSAVC until his 
employers in-house option had been fully funded.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that SJP had 
treated Mr G fairly, as from what hed seen, in-house AVCs were highlighted to him at the 
time of the advice in late 1999 and early 2000, but Mr G chose not to explore that option.
Mr G, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he repeated his 
concern that he didnt feel a FSAVC was appropriate for a consumer until such time as the 
in-house option had been fully funded. He went on to say that SJP shouldve undertaken a 
comparison of charges between their plan and the in-house option, so that he was placed in 
an informed position about the costs before proceeding, and as he wasnt, that meant SJPs 
advice was unsuitable. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe that Mr G had 
presented any new arguments that hed not already considered or responded to. Unhappy 
with the outcome, Mr G then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to 
review that outcome.
After reviewing the complaint, I issued a provisional decision on this case as I explained that, 
whilst I was minded to agree with our Investigators initial view, I wanted to add my thinking 
to the general suitability of the FSAVC advice. That would allow both parties the opportunity 
to respond.
What I said in my provisional decision:
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr G and SJP in order to reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but it is 
for me to decide, based on the available information that I've been given, what's more likely 
than not to have happened. And, having done so, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint and 
Ill explain why below.
Given that SJP advised Mr G to take out the FSAVC over 20 years ago, Ive looked at what 
rules were in place by the various regulators at that time. The Life Assurance and Unit Trust 
Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO) said advisers should have maintained high standards of 
integrity and fair dealing, whilst exercising due skill, care and diligence in providing any 
services, and generally take proper account of the interests of investors. It added that 
businesses should have regard to the consumer's financial position generally and to any 
rights that they may have under an occupational scheme, and give the consumer all 
information relevant to their dealings with the representative in question.
The Personal Investment Authority (PIA - a predecessor of the Financial Conduct Authority) 
initially adopted the LAUTRO rules when it took over from them in 1994. And, in May 1996, 
the PIA issued Regulatory Update 20 (which is sometimes referred to as RU20), codifying 
the procedures it expected product providers to follow. The PIA was simply restating what 
was already there, saying that before selling a FSAVC, tied advisers (which in short, means 
those firms can only recommend the products of the business theyre tied to, which in this 
case is SJP), should:
Draw the consumer's attention to the in-house alternative
Discuss the generic differences between the two routes and explain the likelihood that 
the charges under the in-house AVC would be lower
Direct the consumer to his employer or the Occupational Pension scheme for more 
information on the in-house option
Even in the more general introduction to the article, RU20, it mentions the tax treatment of 
contributions and benefits, employers being willing to match or top-up benefits, and the 
ability to provide additional life cover. The article also refers to the lower charges under an 
in-house AVC in general terms. It says:Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under FSAVCs, reflecting 
economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to administration expenses by the 
employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this is likely to exert the greatest 
impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the client.
So, taking account of the regulators rules of the time, the generic differences of AVCs and 
FSAVCs, along with the lower costs, should have been explained to the consumer. Ive 
looked closely at the records that were provided to Mr G at the time of SJPs 
recommendation in January 2000. In the suitability letter that SJP provided to Mr G (dated 7 
January 2000) at the point of the advice, it states:
We discussed in detail the {name of Mr Gs employer} occupational scheme together with 
the inhouse AVC, in particular that the inhouse schemes often carry lower charges than that 
of Free-Standing contracts. I also directed you to the Trustees of the Occupational Scheme 
to obtain details of the Inhouse Additional Voluntary Contribution Scheme which is available 
to you which we also discussed in detail.
I provided you with a copy of the document Inhouse AVCs together with {SJP} Retirement 
Plan Key Features Brochure. However, you were disinclined to make contributions to the 
Inhouse Scheme as you wished to maintain a spread of investment management skills 
together with the flexibility and portability of establishing your own personal arrangement 
over and above that of your employers scheme.
Ive also looked at the fact-find that SJPs adviser completed with Mr G at the point that the 
advice was provided in 2000. In Section 17, the adviser has noted:
We discussed both inhouse AVC and Free Standing and he preferred Free Standing due to 
portability, large spread of investment management groups and ability to switch funds and 
also to convert to personal pension if his circumstances altered.
So, it therefore seems to me that SJP not only had a conversation with Mr G about the 
availability of in-house AVCs, but they also provided a leaflet that gave him more information 
about that option. Whilst Ive not been provided with a copy of the leaflet that Mr G was 
given, Ive no reason to doubt that one was provided and I suspect this shed further light on 
his options. Based on what Ive seen, Im therefore satisfied that SJPs adviser complied with 
the regulators RU20 update and Mr G was made sufficiently aware that in-house AVC 
options were available.
Ive also thought about what Mr Gs representative has said about the FSAVC plan being 
unsuitable for him - Im not persuaded that is was though. Looking at Mr Gs circumstances 
at the time, he wanted to explore improving his income benefits at retirement, given his 
desire to retire by around 55 years old. 
Mr Gs representative states that he was risk averse at the time of the appointment with SJP 
and wouldve opted for the added years AVC, had it been clearly highlighted to him. 
However, I dont agree with that contention and thats because, at the time of the advice, Mr 
G already held a Personal Equity Plan (PEP) worth £3,000. PEPs were typically invested in 
a broad spectrum of equity-based investments that could go down as well as up in value. In 
addition to arranging the FSAVC, Mr G was also investing £34,000 into equity-based ISAs 
for himself and his wife and an Investment Bond. Those investments support the consumers 
willingness to take risks and I think that, had Mr G been inherently cautious or a non-risk 
taker, he wouldnt have invested in the PEP or subsequent ISAs and Investment Bond. So, whilst added years would have provided guaranteed benefits whereas AVC or FSAVCs 
were subject to investment risk, Mr G was still over 20 years from retirement and could 
accrue additional guaranteed benefits, as well as take some risks with part of his pension.
The suitability report that SJP provided to Mr G, at the time of the advice, demonstrates that 
a discussion about the level of risk he was prepared to take with his monies was covered, 
resulting in him being classed as a medium risk investor. I dont consider that level of risk as 
being at odds with either the funds that Mr Gs FSAVC was invested in, or for someone who 
was recommended a FSAVC over the added years option to achieve his retirement goals. 
At the time of the advice, added years might have looked expensive compared to the 
projected benefits of the FSAVC. Whilst recent investment returns and annuity rates have 
made final salary pension schemes look extremely attractive, I must consider the 
circumstances of Mr G in 1999. Thats because investment returns were much higher in the 
1990s than they are now and thats reflected in the growth rates that providers used at the 
time. In 1999, for example, providers projected potential returns being as high as 9% per 
annum. Ive looked at the illustration that SJP gave to Mr G at the time. His (gross) regular 
contribution of £325 per month at that time (based on a growth rate of 9%) was projected to 
yield an annuity income of £61,300 per annum. So, its clear to see why a FSAVC may have 
seemed much more attractive than added years - the goal of getting better benefits for a 
lower monthly contribution, when potential returns were so high.
Importantly, had Mr G been a member of his schemes added years AVC, that wouldve 
faced an actuarial reduction if he retired at age 55, because like his main scheme, the added 
years element wouldve been in payment for longer. That adjustment isnt intended to 
penalise the consumer, but it can result in significantly lower benefits. What that means in 
practice is, if he were an early leaver, Mr G was less likely to have benefited from the added 
years scheme, which would then have been reduced to take account of the fact that the 
pension was payable for longer.
Mr Gs representatives have stated that, before the FSAVC was considered, it was a 
requirement that in-house AVCs were first fully funded. However, whilst I accept that an AVC 
will generally be better value than a FSAVC because of the lower charges, Im not aware of 
any requirement that stipulated the in-house AVC capacity must first be exhausted prior to 
exploring a FSAVC. As Ive already explained, the only requirement at the time of the advice 
was that consumers must first be made aware of the availability of in-house schemes.
Finally, Ive also thought about the ancillary benefits that purchasing added years wouldve 
given Mr G that his FSAVC wouldnt, such as an increased spouses pension. Having looked 
at the fact-find submitted with the complaint, it seems that whilst Mr G is married, his spouse 
also had a final salary occupational scheme too and there seems to be little financial reliance 
on one another. In addition, in 1999, the records show that he is mortgage free with 
reasonable deposits and investments and a strong net disposable income. So, whilst that 
suggests that he has the capacity to take risks at the level that he is doing with his FSAVC, I 
also think it points towards a spouses pension being more likely than not of secondary 
importance to Mr G, with the primary focus on ensuring that his own retirement benefits were 
maximised.
I think that overall, given the cost of the added years option compared to the high investment 
returns that were projected through the FSAVC, that wouldve more likely than not have 
made SJPs proposition more attractive to Mr G and as such, I am unable to agree with Mr 
Gs representative that the FSAVC sale looks unfair. From what Ive seen, the FSAVC 
appears to meet his stated objectives at the time and as such, Im not upholding Mr Gs 
complaint.Responses to my provisional decision
After providing a copy of my provisional decision to both parties, neither added any further 
comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr G or his representative, nor SJP, provided any comments to the provisional 
decision, it therefore follows that I have reached the same conclusions for the same reasons 
that I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint and as such, I do not require St Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman