DRN-3152049
The complaint
Mr A is complaining about the amount he received following money being sent to him via 
Western Union Payment Services GB Limited.
What happened
A family member in the USA sent US$2,000 to Mr A in the UK via Western Union. The family 
member was charged US$103 as a fee for sending the money. When Mr A collected the 
funds, he received £1,264.20. Mr A wasnt happy with this as he thought he shouldve 
received more. He also said he thought he would receive the funds in US dollars. So he 
complained to Western Union. 
Western Union said it hadnt done anything wrong, so Mr A referred the complaint to us. 
Once the complaint was referred to us, Western Union said its agent in the USA hadnt 
made it clear to Mr As family member that the amount would be paid in sterling and not US 
dollars. But it also explained that Mr A couldve declined the amount had he been unhappy 
with it and this wouldve been returned to his family member. It explained that the amount Mr 
A had received was correct based on the exchange rates at the time. But it offered £50 for 
any inconvenience caused to Mr A. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She explained she couldnt look into the 
service that Western Union had provided in the USA to Mr As family member. She put 
Western Unions offer to Mr A but he didnt accept it. He asked if he could return the funds 
and so the original amount of US$2,000 be returned to his family member. Western Union 
didnt agree to this and explained that by signing to receive the money, Mr A was agreeing to 
its terms and conditions and to the amount being received. 
Our investigator explained to Mr A that she didnt think Western Union had done anything 
wrong. She was satisfied the exchange rate used was a fair one and the fees had been 
correctly charged. Overall, she was satisfied Mr A had received the correct amount and that 
it wasnt required to undo the transaction. 
Mr A didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be reviewed again. So its been 
passed to me to consider and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service is only able to consider complaints about businesses which are authorised in the 
UK for regulated activities carried out in the UK. This means we cant consider the fact that 
Western Union in the USA provided incomplete information to Mr As family member. What I 
can consider here is whether Western Union has treated Mr A fairly when providing him with 
the funds which were sent to him and when he received them.
I understand Mr A mayve been expecting more. But Western Union uses market exchange 
rates to convert money from one currency to another. Exchange rates can change by the 
hour. Western Union has shown us the exchange rates it used, and I havent seen anything 
to show these rates were incorrect. This rate, plus the fees Mr As family member was 
charged, has meant that Mr A has received less than he was expecting. But that doesnt 
mean it was the wrong amount.
Mr A was asked to sign for the funds to be released to him  and he did. I think the form he 
signed made it clear how much he would be receiving.  Had he been unhappy with the 
amount, he couldve declined the funds and they wouldve been returned to his family 
member in the USA. But as he signed to accept the amount, Im not going to ask Western 
Union to reverse this transaction on the basis that Mr A is now unhappy with the amount. 
Western Union has offered Mr A £50 for the fact that Mr As family member wasnt told that 
the money would be paid out in sterling. Its unclear why Mr A wouldve wanted the funds in 
US dollars given that he lives in the UK where sterling is the used currency. However, this 
lack of information was provided in the USA by the US arm of Western Union. And the 
incomplete information was provided to Mr As family member rather than him. So, as Ive 
explained above, I cant consider this part of the complaint. 
Western Union has confirmed the £50 compensation is still on offer to Mr A. Ill leave it to 
him to decide whether he wishes to accept this or not. But for the reasons set out above, Im 
not going to ask Western Union to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman