DRN-2695893
The complaint
Mr H complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) has settled a claim 
against his policy on a 50/50 split liability basis, when it shouldn't have.
What happened
Mr H has a motor insurance policy, which he bought through a broker that is underwritten by 
Advantage, his son is a named driver on the policy. The policy includes an excess of £545 
per claim. It also contains the following endorsement:
If you dont use one of our nominated repairers to repair your car when making a 
claim under sections 1 and 2 of your policy, the excess/es on your schedule will be 
doubled.
Section one and two of the policy are:
Section 1  damage to your car (except that caused by fire or theft) up to its market 
value
Section 2  Damage or loss by fire or theft up to its market value
The terms and conditions of the policy also say the following:
When defending or settling a claim, your insurer is entitled to instruct the solicitors of 
their choice to act for you in any proceedings. If they feel it's appropriate, your insurer 
will be entitled to admit liability, for the costs covered under this policy on behalf of 
you or any person claiming indemnity under the policy.
In November 2019, his son was involved in an accident while driving the car. The accident 
occurred on a roundabout and Mr H believes the driver of the other car was to blame for it. 
He provided Advantage with the details of the accident, including his version of events and 
photographs of the damage to both cars.
The third party insurer (TPI) contacted Advantage to pursue a claim on behalf of its insured, 
it believed Mr H's son was at fault. Advantage put in a counter allegation holding the other 
driver at fault. But as there were no independent witnesses, CCTV and neither party could 
give any conclusive evidence supporting their version of events the TPI offered Advantage a 
50/50 settlement on a without prejudice (WOP) basis. Advantage accepted this and settled 
its share of the third party claim.
Mr H chose to have his car repaired privately at a cost of £900. He asked Advantage to 
reimburse him for the cost of this and provided it with a handwritten invoice for the work. 
Advantage has not reimbursed the cost, the reasons it has given for this are:
the invoice is handwritten and doesn't contain any details around the repair it simply 
says parts and labour. There is also no photographic evidence that the repairs have 
been carried out; and even if Mr H could provide this
the excess Mr H would have to pay would exceed the cost of the claim and so it 
wouldn't be fair to encourage Mr H to make a claim as it would leave him further out 
of pocket.
Mr H complained to Advantage about the settlement of the claim and that he had not been 
able to reimburse his costs. Advantage didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint and so he brought it 
to this service.
The investigator didnt think Advantage had acted unreasonably, in summary he said that 
Advantage was entitled to settle the claim as it had. But recognised that although Advantage 
was right not to reimburse Mr H for his costs, it shouldve explained the reasons in a clearer 
way to Mr H. 
Mr H queried why his No claims Discount (NCD) had been affected and disagreed with the 
investigators findings about the settlement and reimbursing his costs and so the matter has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, I've given careful consideration 
to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so, I have to tell 
Mr H that I think the investigator has reached the right outcome here and for broadly the 
same reasons, I'll explain.
Liability
Before I go into the specific points of this complaint, I'd like to explain my role here is not to 
decide who is liable for the claim. But to decide if Advantage treated Mr H fairly and in line 
with the policy terms and conditions when it dealt with the claim and decided to accept a 
50/50 split in liability.
As noted above, Mr H's policy, like every other motor insurance policy I've seen, allows 
Advantage to take over and conduct the defence settlement of any claim. But it must be fair 
to Mr H if it does decide to settle the claim, by this I mean it should only do so when it's more 
likely than not the claim against Mr H would succeed in court. This is because Advantage 
would want to risk all the costs and expenses in defending a claim that their likely to lose in 
court.
Before accepting liability, Advantage considered Mr H's version of events versus the third 
party insurer's allegation. As there were no independent witnesses or video evidence and 
the photographic evidence did not support one version over another, Advantage thought it 
would be difficult to defend this claim in court. So, it decided to accept the TPI's offer to 
settle on a split liability. I understand Mr H's strength of feeling that the third party was at 
fault but given the above I don't think Advantage has acted unfairly here.
I think it would be useful here to me to explain that when we talk about fault claims, this has 
nothing to do with blame. It simply means that an insurer is unable to recover its full costs 
from another party. So, when liability is split, this means the insurer is able to recover some 
costs. In Mr H's case the split was equal 50/50 but this still means it is recorded as a fault 
claim and so will affect Mr H's NCD in line with the policy terms and conditions.When accepting the split liability, it did so WOP. This means that should Mr H decide he 
wants to pursue the claim through the courts he is able to do so still.
Costs and excess
Mr H's policy clearly outlines that in the event of a claim he has to pay an excess of £545, 
and should he choose to have any repairs done outside of the network of recommended 
repairers this excess is doubled, making it £1,090. This means as Mr H did have his car 
repaired privately, he has to pay the first £1,090 of the claim and Advantage would pay the 
rest.
The invoice Mr H provided shows the cost of repairs to his car, including parts, was £900. 
So, as the cost of the repairs is less than the excess payable there would be nothing due to 
Mr H if he decided to make a claim against the policy.
And although Mr H would be entitled to pursue the TPI for fifty percent of the excess, this 
would still leave him out of pocket, as to do so he would need to pay the £1090 to Advantage 
in the first instance, on top of the £900 he has already paid for the repairs. So, it follows 
Advantage has acted in Mr H's best interest in not dealing with the claim for the repairs to his 
car.
I know Mr H will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Advantage can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman