DRN-4133632
The complaint
Miss M complains about the overall service she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) 
during the period from September to December 2021, after she says she was victim of a 
phone scam and internet hack.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again if 
full here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Miss M believes she was the victim of a scam on 13 September 2021, following 
which she immediately notified HSBC.
Following a call with HSBC, Miss Ms account was frozen.
Miss M believed it was extremely important to discuss the matter  particularly 
surrounding the security of her account  with an account manager in branch and 
tried to arrange this with HSBC staff over the phone.
During a series of phone calls spanning approximately two months, Miss M was led 
to believe shed be receiving communication from a branch about arranging a 
meeting.
Around two months after the initial call, Miss M was told that it wasnt the role of 
account managers to discuss fraud issues, so a face-to-face appointment wouldnt 
provide what she was looking for. HSBC said that any fraud-related matters would be 
for discussion over the phone. 
Miss M is unhappy with the overall service provided by HSBC, but she has 
specifically referenced that she feels account managers should have knowledge 
relating to protecting investments and security of accounts.
HSBC acknowledged it should have informed Miss M of the correct process, in terms 
of the role of account managers, in the initial calls  and it apologised for the delay. It 
paid Miss M £50 to cover the costs of her calls during this time.
HSBC also said it couldnt find any evidence of fraud on Miss Ms account. Miss M 
has stated that the money wasnt taken as a deduction, but as information. 
Our investigator agreed that HSBC should have informed Miss M of its correct 
processes earlier and recognised her frustration. But he ultimately concluded that 
£50 to cover the call cost was a fair reflection of what went wrong  as HSBC 
wouldnt be expected to deliver a service it doesnt offer.
Miss M disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
On review of case, I didnt feel the £50 offered was reflective of the trouble and upset 
that accompanied the financial cost of the calls. Through informal communication 
with HSBC, it has now agreed to pay an additional £200. This is to reflect the trouble 
and upset caused by the delay in communicating the role of the account managers to 
Miss M. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered whats been provided in full. Having done so, I think a fair outcome to 
this case is for HSBC to pay the £200 outlined above, for these reasons:
Ive not been provided with any evidence of financial loss as a result of fraud or due 
to any errors caused by HSBC. While there has been reference to losses of over 
£300,000, Miss M said this was in the form of information. Miss M hasnt provided 
evidence to substantiate a loss, either financially or in the form of information, despite 
there being ample opportunity to do so. So, I dont accept theres been a loss here.
HSBC said its account managers dont discuss fraud-related matters  their role is to 
discuss wealth management. The role of its employees is a commercial decision for 
HSBC alone to make and isnt a matter with which our Service would generally 
intervene, so long as it could demonstrate that it would treat other consumers with 
the same circumstances in the same way. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to say that 
HSBC acted in error by not allowing Miss M a face-to-face interaction about matters 
such as her fraud and security concerns  it doesnt offer this service.
However, I agree with both parties that there has been an issue with the level of 
service provided by HSBC. Its clear from the initial phone call that Miss M was 
affected by her perceived loss on 13 September 2021. But for around two months, it 
appears to me that she was led to believe shed be contacted by branch staff to 
discuss her fraud and security concerns. I think HSBC should have recognised that 
there were emails being sent to branch asking for urgent contact to be made with 
Miss M, which werent being followed through. And that HSBC could have done 
something sooner to uncover that an account manager, and branch staff generally, 
wouldnt be able to carry out the service Miss M was hoping for and expecting. Im 
satisfied that this caused Miss M unnecessary stress.
Ive thought carefully about how this error in communication  which is what I 
consider to be the failing in this case  should be put right. There was around a two-
month period, from 13 September 2012 until 12 November 2021, in which Miss M 
was led to believe shed be receiving a call-back to arrange a meeting. Without this 
period, matters may not have escalated to the extent they did. 
But, in deciding a fair amount of compensation, I also considered the way in which 
Miss M spoke to HSBC during the call in which its adviser notified her of the role of 
its account managers. I note Miss Ms consistent use of derogatory language and 
inappropriate tone from this call onwards. So, while I acknowledge Miss Ms 
frustration in this call and at least four further calls, I dont think it would be fair to hold 
HSBC responsible from this point  and consider that Miss M has also contributed to 
her own frustrations.
So, considering all the evidence Ive seen and heard, I think the £200 HSBC has 
agreed to pay is a fair resolution to this complaint  and simply cannot justify an 
award in excess of £300,000 which Miss M has requested.
I note that Miss M at one point implied she was unhappy that her account remained 
frozen. But Miss M has said that she can unsuspend her account if she wishes to, 
suggesting that it remains frozen at her request. While Im not clear of the current 
status of the account, I dont think HSBC has acted in error here, as it appears to 
have followed Miss Ms instruction. In summary, I havent seen evidence of fraud. And while I think HSBC made an error in 
terms of service, Im satisfied that £200 is a fair reflection of what went wrong here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that HSBC Bank UK Plc should pay Miss M a 
further £200 to reflect its service failings.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman