DRN-2962625
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with UK Insurance Limited trading as direct line (who Ive referred to as UKI
in my decision) after they charged an administration fee for cancelling his motor insurance
policy.
What happened
Mr D had a car insurance policy with UKI which renewed in December 2019. On 8 February
2020 Mr D entered into a webchat with an agent of UKI to update them with his change of
address. Mr D was informed this would result in a new premium being generated for his
policy totalling £1,044.96. Mr D felt this was unreasonable so he said he wanted to cancel
the policy, which he seems to have done on 28 February 2020.
Following the cancellation of the policy UKI wrote to Mr D explaining there was an
outstanding balance of £132.42 which included unpaid premiums and an administration fee.
Mr D would like the administration fee refunded.
Our investigator tried to mediate with UKI twice to refund the administration fee but they
wouldnt agree. So our investigator issued an opinion upholding the complaint. He concluded
when Mr D contacted UKI a new quote was produced meaning a new contract of insurance
was drawn up. So he thought Mr Ds policy was renewed on 8 February 2020 and Mr D had
a 14 day cooling off period. Although this would have expired on 22 February 2020, he felt
Mr D made his intentions to cancel clear during the webchat on 8 February 2020, so UKI had
the opportunity to action the cancellation at this stage. Our investigator also added it doesnt
seem fair to apply a fee for cancellation following such a large increase in premiums.
UKI disagreed. They said the policy was renewed on 21 December 2019 and Mr Ds quote
was not a new contract, if accepted it would be a policy amendment. They therefore said a
14 day cooling off period did not begin on 8 February 2020. And although Mr D said he was
going to cancel his policy on 8 February 2020, UKI couldnt assume he would have gone
ahead with the cancellation. Because UKI didnt agree with the investigator, the case was
passed to me for a decision.
On 18 June 2021 I issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ive included an extract of that decision below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive reached a different
outcome to that of our investigator and Ive explained why below.
Having looked at Mr Ds policy terms, I can see that this required him to inform UKI of any
changes to the address where the car is normally kept. And Mr D contacted UKI on
8 February 2020 through the webchat to change his address with effect from
10 February 2020. Ive reviewed the webchat between Mr D and one of UKIs agents and I
can see once Mr D had provided the necessary details, the additional premium was
confirmed to him as being £1,044.96. As Mr D was understandably unhappy about this, he
said he would be cancelling his insurance policy.
Our investigator said when Mr D contacted UKI a new quote was produced meaning a new
contract of insurance was drawn up but UKI have said this isnt the case and it was a policy
amendment. Although I appreciate the premium greatly increased, I think that this change to
the policy would be an amendment rather than a new quote. I say this because Mr D was
carrying out a mid-term adjustment, so his contract of insurance was updated at his request
due to his change in circumstances and it was going to be a continuation of his existing
policy.
It follows that I dont think Mr D had a 14-day cooling off period commencing on 8 February
2020. And even if I did think this, Mr D didnt actually cancel his insurance within 14 days
from 8 February 2020 so hed still have to pay the fee anyway. Although Mr D made his
intention clear during the webchat by saying hed be calling to cancel his insurance on the
same day, I wouldnt have expected UKI to cancel this based on what hed said as this
would leave Mr D uninsured, so I dont think UKI did anything wrong by not cancelling the
insurance at this stage.
Having looked at Mr Ds policy schedule this says the administration fee is approximately
£50 which doesnt seem unreasonable. As Ive explained above, I agree with UKI that a new
policy wasnt taken out and that Mr D wanted to cancel his policy after 14 days of renewing it
in December 2019. So it follows that I think UKI were within their rights to charge an
administration fee and I wont be asking UKI to refund this.
Our investigator thought that it doesnt seem fair to apply a fee for cancellation following
such a large increase in premiums. And I can understand why he and Mr D felt this was
unfair given the premium had increased. But Ive looked at the internal notes held by UKI
and it seems that this quote was generated correctly, so I dont think UKI have done
anything wrong in the quote that was given. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for
Mr D but taking everything into account and for the reasons Ive explained above, I wont be
asking UKI to refund the administration fee. 
UKI said they didnt have anything further to add. We didnt hear back from Mr D, although 
we did chase him for a response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party sent in any further evidence or submissions, I see no reason to deviate from 
the outcome explained in my provisional decision above, and I therefore do not uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, UK Insurance Limited trading
as direct line do not need to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman