DRN-2532495
The complaint
Mr N complains that Royal & Sun Alliance plc (RSA) is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N had a policy under which RSA was responsible for dealing with home emergency 
claims. Where I refer to RSA, I include tradesmen and others for whose actions I hold RSA 
responsible.
On 7 June 2020, Mr N reported a leak through his pitched roof. He contacted RSA for help. 
the next day RSA did temporary repairs to some lead flashing. 
Mr N complained to RSA that its tradesmen had dropped something onto the roof of the 
conservatory and caused it to leak.
By a final response dated 30 July 2020, RSA turned down the complaint. Unhappy with that, 
Mr N brought his complaint to us in September 2020. He considers that RSA should replace 
the damaged section of roof.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
there was any evidence demonstrating that an RSA tradesman caused the damage to the 
roof. She said that it was more than likely that missing pointing from the roof may have 
caused the damage to the conservatory roof and recent rain may have highlighted the fault.
Mr N disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He didnt go on there and do any damage. Everything before the contractors arrived 
was fine.
There were no tiles or debris on the roof. 
His photograph shows no sign of any mortar on the roof. Anyway, mortar or grout 
coming from the ridge wouldnt have any kind of impact to crack the roof. Any mortar 
coming from the ridge would probably still be on the pitched roof tiles. 
The tradesmen were there working above the area in question. They had to be 
responsible - it is the only explanation as he sees it. 
The tradesmen were carrying a blow torch as they needed one to put the patch on 
the lead flashing. The original leak on the pitched roof was nothing to do with lead 
flashing as this has been replaced and still had problem. He has since had the 
problem rectified.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider that Mr N has the burden of showing that it is more likely than not that RSAs 
tradesmen negligently caused damage to his conservatory roof.
He has said that the tradesmen dropped a blowtorch onto the conservatory roof below. But 
RSA has said its tradesmen deny having a blowtorch on the roof.
Mr N has sent a photograph of the inside of the conservatory roof. It does appear to have 
allowed water in.
RSA has sent us some other photographs. One photograph is of the rear of the ridge of the 
pitched roof. It shows a piece of mortar missing. I find that the piece of mortar mustve fallen 
at least part of the way down the rear slope.
Another photograph is of the outside of the conservatory roof. I can see small pieces of 
debris consistent with mortar having fallen from the ridge. 
So  whilst I do not doubt the sincerity of his belief - I find that Mr N has fallen short of 
showing that RSA is responsible for the damage to the conservatory roof.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance plc to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman