DRN-1539690
The complaint
Mr I says that when he made a claim on his commercial motor insurance policy, Collingwood 
Insurance Company Ltd acted unreasonably by delaying the settlement and offering him too 
little for his stolen car.    
What happened
On 30 January 2019 Mr Is car was taken from the driveway of a house he owns, after being 
parked there for just a few minutes unattended. Collingwoods enquiries into the theft 
included having the car key Mr I provided checked and instructing a firm of loss adjusters to 
interview him on 5 February 2019. The loss adjuster told Collingwood he thought it should 
request a police report  although Mr I was able to provide a copy of a letter from the police 
stating that theyd closed the case just two days after the theft. 
Collingwood didnt receive the police report until September 2019. It then offered Mr I £6,630 
for his car, which was later raised to £7,295 by way of a second payment. Mr I didnt think 
the total sum paid was enough. He thought the delay was avoidable and he said as he used 
the car as a taxi, he hadnt been able to work for a month until he replaced it. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Is complaint. She thought Collingwood had offered 
Mr I a fair sum for his car, as it was in line with the valuations set out in the national trade 
guides. She noted that Collingwood had chased the police report. She thought the delay in 
getting it was outside its control. But she thought the claim shouldnt have been delayed in 
order to get a police report in the first place. She noted that the key assessment was done 
by 1 March 2019 and thought Collingwood should have settled the claim around that time. 
Collingwood said it was a policy condition that the theft must be reported to the police and 
that its a part of its usual process to request a police report in cases of theft. It also said 
there was no evidence that the car was broken into, and that it was advertised for sale three 
weeks earlier, with the theft address on display. It said Mr I had the cars one key with him 
when the car was taken, and it thought it would be hard to steal it without a key. It said it was 
entitled to make any investigations it deemed necessary if a claim was made. And although 
the police report was of no value, it said it couldnt have known that in advance.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Collingwood offered Mr I a fair sum for his car. We think the best way to establish a 
cars likely market value usually is to refer to the values quoted in the national trade guides. 
Collingwood offered the top valuation quoted in the guides, so I think it acted reasonably. 
Mr I reported the theft to the police, as he was required to do under the policys terms and 
conditions. But the police didnt attend the scene or undertake any enquiries. Two days after 
the theft, they closed the case. Based on that, it seems the police had no concerns about the 
theft or Mr Is role in it. 
The loss adjuster said Mr I came across very well when interviewed and gave him no reason 
to question his credibility. The loss adjuster also said hed done research that showed a 
device was available to unlock Mr Is type of vehicle. But he noted that the police had 
emailed Mr I recently to say the number plates for his car had been found. The loss adjuster 
said he found it bizarre that the plates were found, yet there was no sign of the car. He 
didnt explain why that was his view, but he questioned whether the police now had any 
concerns about the theft. The police refused to comment, except to say the case was closed. 
The email to Mr I from the police didnt express any concerns about the number plates 
having been found. There was no suggestion that the case was going to be re-opened. The 
police only said that the plates couldnt be examined forensically due to the weather 
conditions theyd been exposed to - and that theyd now be destroyed.
Id have expected the removal of number plates to be a common occurrence after a theft. 
Presumably, many thieves fit false plates, and discard the old ones, as soon as possible, to 
prevent the stolen car from being picked up by number plate recognition cameras or police 
officers. It seems that worked in this case, as the car wasnt spotted by cameras or police 
officers. I dont think its clear why this issue was of such concern to the loss adjuster  and 
as far as I can see, Collingwood didnt query it.   
Although getting a police report is part of Collingwoods usual process after a theft, it doesnt 
have to do so. In some cases, insurers dont apply for one, as they decide it isnt necessary, 
depending on the surrounding facts. I think insurers are generally aware that requesting a 
police report will almost certainly extend the time it takes to settle a case, sometimes unduly. 
So I think its a question of whether it was necessary, as well as fair and reasonable, for 
Collingwood to apply for a report in this particular case.
 
The loss adjuster found Mr I to be credible and didnt question his account of events. He also 
identified how the car could have been stolen. The police seemed satisfied that no enquiries 
at all were necessary. Mr I provided the cars only key to Collingwood and there were no 
concerns about it. Collingwood seems to have based its decision to get a police report on 
the fact that the car had been advertised for sale recently and that the loss adjuster found it 
odd that the number plates were taken off the car. In these circumstances, I dont think it 
was fair and reasonable to delay the settlement. 
Collingwood couldnt have known it would take many months to get the report, but that was 
always a possibility. I think it became obvious early on that the police werent co-operating in 
the way Collingwood would have liked. I think it could have decided to settle the claim 
without the report, even after it had been requested. In my opinion, its clear that 
Collingwood was concerned about the time the police were taking, and the effect of that on 
Mr I, as it expressed those concerns in some of its reminder emails to the police.
 
In some circumstances, I think its fair for an insurer to wait for as long as it takes to get a 
police report. In my opinion, thats reasonable if the surrounding facts suggest that a report is 
or might be necessary. But in this case, Collingwood knew the police hadnt attended the 
scene and had made no enquiries at all. Its hard to see what it thought might be set out in 
the police report that could affect the outcome of Mr Is claim. I think the surrounding facts 
pointed to the claim being genuine and the police having nothing useful to add.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Collingwood acted reasonably in delaying the 
settlement beyond the start of March 2019. I think it should add interest to the sums it paid Mr I for his car. As he was seriously inconvenienced (as well as upset and frustrated) by the 
long delay, I think it would also be fair and reasonable for it to pay him £400 compensation.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Collingwood Insurance Company 
Ltd to do the following:
Pay interest  at the simple yearly rate of 8%, to the sums it paid Mr I for his car, from 
1 March 2019 to the date of each payment
Pay Mr I £400 compensation for distress and inconvenience
If Collingwood thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr I how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman