DRN-4439024
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that her claim has been declined due to a pre-existing condition with her 
dog. Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd (BBI) are providing the pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C made a claim for treatment costs she incurred for her dog in 2022/23 for an ear 
infection. BBI reviewed the claim, but decided to decline it as it said, the first clinical signs of 
symptoms [of the dogs] condition occurred prior to the start of the policy.
BBI highlighted the exclusion of cover for pre-existing conditions, which the policy describes 
as any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition which has occurred or existed or has shown 
signs or symptoms of existing in any form before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting 
Period in the first Period of insurance. This also includes any diagnosis, or any Clinical Signs 
caused by or resulting from an Accidental injury or illness Your Pet had on an Associated 
Condition before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period in the first Period of 
insurance."
Mrs C thought this was unfair. She didnt think a standalone ear infection would be 
considered as a pre-existing condition. She said the infections were over two and half years 
apart and not connected. She wants the costs she has incurred to be reimbursed by BBI.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He didnt think the two illnesses were 
linked so told BBI to reassess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. He asked BBI to add 8% interest per annum (simple) to any settlement paid. BBI 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 10 October 2023. I said:
Not every policy wording will be the same, so as BBI has declined the claim due to an 
exclusion in the policy, Ive examined this closer. BBI said Mrs Cs dog had a pre-existing 
condition prior to taking out the policy which it said meant cover wasnt available in the 
circumstances of Mrs Cs claim.
The policy defines Condition in the policy as means any injury sustained or resulting from 
a single Accident or any manifestation of an Illness having the same diagnostic classification 
or resulting from the same disease process regardless of the number of incidents or areas of 
Your Pets body affected.
BBI has explained that both claims that Mrs C has made  the recent one and the one 
before the policy start date were for ear infections. It said as both claims had the same 
diagnostic classification, the condition was pre-existing and therefore excluded from the 
policy. I think BBI has fairly applied the policy terms here.
Ive read the notes associated with the claim and I can see both claims related to the right 
ear of the dog. The dog had to visit the vets several times for a wax discharge from the right 
ear. I think this is the same clinical sign, so is consistent with the definition of a pre-existing 
condition.
I appreciate Mrs C didnt think that the dogs ear represented a need to declare a pre-
existing issue when taking out the policy. However, Ive reviewed the documentation that 
was shared with Mrs C when she took out the policy. Then statement of fact clearly shows 
an assumption which states You accept that no cover will be provided for any illness or 
injury that is pre-existing or has displayed symptoms (changes in my pets normal healthy 
state, condition, appearance, bodily functions or behaviour) of if it were to arise within the 
first 14 days from the policy start date or 5 days in the event of an accident.
If Mrs C had only visited her vet once with an ear infection, then I can see how she may 
have overlooked the illness when taking out the policy. However, having read the notes, I 
think the clinical signs and diagnostic classification were the same in both claims. I think Mrs 
C should reasonably have known there was a pre-existing condition when taking out the 
policy, due to the frequency of visits she made to the vet. Therefore, whilst I appreciate Mrs 
C may think its unfair, I think BBI have reasonably applied the terms and conditions of the 
policy in these circumstances and has fairly declined the claim. Therefore, I dont intend to 
uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
BBI didnt indicate if it accepted my provisional decision, but it did state it didnt have 
anything further to add.
Mrs C didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Building Block Insurance 
PCC Ltd to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman