DRN-3469217
The complaint
Mr B complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (SE) allowed his pension switch
to proceed in 2013 without warning him about the risks factors in doing so. In particular he
was a not given the Scorpion Warning leaflet.
Mr Bs representative says that if SE had contacted Mr B it would have discovered the
involvement of an unregulated introducer, that he had been cold-called and that he had not
received regulated advice. It says the receiving pension scheme, which purported to be an
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) had only been recently registered with HMRC - from
13 September 2013. SE should have checked its status and whether Mr B was employed by
it. Also, the pension administrators were not regulated by the FCA. If SE had discussed
these matters with Mr B and supplied him with The Scorpion booklet then he would not
have switched pensions.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 10 March 2022. In that decision I set out why I believed the 
complaint should be upheld. I have included the content of the provisional decision below 
and the provisional decision should be read in conjunction with, and forms part of, this final 
decision. 
Provisional decision of 10 March 2022:
Mr B says he was cold called by a business called Preferred Pension LLP. He says that he was 
informed that his current pension was not performing and that he would obtain better
returns if he transferred his pension to the Birkdale Partnership Pension Scheme (Birkdale).
He agreed to go ahead and the switch was arranged.
Mr B says that if SE had warned him of the risks and given him the Scorpion literature he
would not have gone ahead with the switch and would not have been subject to a pension
liberation scam. He says he has been caused a financial loss as a result of the switch.
SE did not uphold the complaint. It said it wasnt responsible for any investment losses Mr B
had suffered. It said that Mr B was 55 when he made his withdrawals from the Birkdale
scheme and was entitled to take those sums at the time  subject to the application of
income tax. SE said it was not clear that Mr B had suffered any investment loss  but Mr B
could provide more detail about this if he wished.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and an investigator considered the complaint. She
said that SE had said in its response to the complaint that, had it followed its correct process
when it received Mr Bs request to switch pensions, Mr B may not have proceeded with the
switch. Therefore she had not had to reach a view as to the merits of the complaint. She
therefore suggested redress based on the assumption that Mr B would not have switched but 
remained with SE. So she suggested reinstatement in the SE scheme as if Mr B had not
switched.
SE didnt agree with the investigators assessment. In summary it said:
The complaint had been made too late  later than the applicable time limits allowed.
The Scorpion guidance issued by TPR on 14 February 2013 was not mandatory. It
was not until 2015 that the Pension Scams Industry Group released a more detailed
code of practice  although this was also non-binding.
The guidance needs to be weighed against the members right to transfer.
It does not believe its approach was unreasonable because:
Reference has been made to the Scorpion guidance. As Mr Bs pension was a
personal pension it was not regulated by the pension regulator. The Scorpion
guidance was primarily aimed at transfers from OPS.
The Scorpion leaflet at the time in question specifically concerned pension
liberation scams and this is not a case of pension liberation. Mr B was 55 at the
time of the events in question.
Mr B signed an indemnity acknowledging he was aware of the warning signs
included in the Scorpion literature  such as accessing pensions before the age
of 55, investing overseas, receiving up-front payments or being cold-called. It
also referred to the Pensions Regulators fact sheet on pension liberation, the
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) warning on early release pension schemes
and set out the contact details for the FCA consumer helpline, HMRCs Pension
Anti-Fraud Unit and the Pensions Regulator. This suggests the provision of the
Scorpion literature was redundant  Mr B was already aware of the information
within it.
The receiving scheme was registered with HMRC and The Pensions Regulator,
and it relied on this as to the legitimacy of the scheme. The pension
administrator itself was not regulated, but there was no requirement for it to be.
There was also evidence that the administrators were assisted by an FCA
regulated scheme.
Mr B would have switched anyway, regardless of any action by it. None of the warning signs 
given in the Scorpion booklet applied to Mr Bs situation but for being approached unsolicited 
by an introducer. That risk was included in its indemnity in any event.
There is no evidence of the receiving scheme being a scam opposed to only an unsuitable 
investment. It is not responsible for how Mr B invested his pension.
In terms of the remedy proposed by the investigator, it had not been supplied with evidence 
that Mr B had suffered a loss. He had withdrawn the sums he requested and paid the 
appropriate tax. It would also be unworkable in that if he had wanted to take the same sums 
as he did from the Birkdale scheme from the SE plan, he would have needed to move out of 
his particular pension and take advice from a regulated (and SE approved) financial adviser to 
do so. If he switched without advice then he would have needed to switch away from SE to a 
different provider. So it is more likely he would have transferred elsewhere and there is no 
evidence he would have been better off if transferred elsewhere.
As set out above, SE raised an issue regarding the time limits to make a complaint. It said
that the complaint was out of time because it was more than six years from the point of
transfer until the complaint was made. With respect to the three year time limit, SE said that
it was more than three years since the point when Mr B had received withdrawals from the pension 
provider after the switch. Therefore he would have been aware of his pensions
reducing value.
An investigator then addressed the issue of time limits that had been raised. He agreedthere was more than six years between the date of transfer and the date the complaint was
made. But he did not think Mr B had exceeded the three year limit. He didnt believe that Mr
B making withdrawals from his pension would have alerted him to any potential cause of
complaint about SE. That would not have alerted him to any lack of due diligence by SE. So
he believed that Mr B had complained within three years of knowledge that he had cause for
complaint.
SE didnt agree and said that Mr B made his last withdrawal from the pension scheme he
transferred to in July 2016. As he no longer had any investment in the pension scheme at
that point then he should have raised any issue he had concerning the transfer then. He had
therefore complained too late.
We have asked Mr B some additional questions. He was asked why he withdrew the money
from the pension after it was transferred. Mr Bs representative supplied the following
comments from Mr B:
(Mr B) states he was self employed at the time and due to the lack of availability for work,
he was experiencing financial difficulties. As far as he recalls, he had received a call from
Preferred Pensions LLP offering him the opportunity to withdraw a lump sum from his
pension. (Mr B) cannot recall being made aware of any tax implications that he could suffer
by accessing his pension fund and due to his financial struggles, this seemed a plausible
option for him gain some capital which he used to assist him in his day to day life. He had
initially received approx. £10,000.00 from the advice of Preferred Pensions LLP. However, in
approx. 2017, when he requested to withdraw the remainder of his funds, he was referred to
Warwick and Eaton. Warwick and Eaton had advised (Mr B) that he can only access a
further £5,000.00 from his pension fund as the remainder is tied up within an investment. (Mr
B) was not provided any information of exactly where his funds were invested or the nature
of the investment. He also cannot recall being made aware of any tax implications from
Warwick and Eaton.
Mr B was also asked when he was aware something might have been wrong with the
pension switch and why? The answer was:
(Mr B) became aware his funds are at risk in 2017 as he was advised by Warwick and
Eaton that he cannot access a large portion of his funds due to them being tied up within a
scheme.
Mr B was also asked if he had knowledge about what his money was invested in after he
transferred, but he confirmed he was unaware of the nature of it.
Mr B was also asked about the warnings contained in SEs indemnity form and why he was
not concerned about these warnings. The answer was:
(Mr B) states he cannot recall the specifics of the paperwork he may have signed, he
reiterates all documentation would have been signed in order to obtain a lump sum
to help assist his finances and states any concerns he had were alleviated by the
reassurance of his IFA.
SL was asked why it had concerns about Birkdale at the time Mr B made his switch request.
It said there were the following concerns in March 2014:
That the Birkdale scheme was newly established.
Warwick and Eaton, the administrators of the Birkdale scheme, were newly established  less 
than 12 months old at that time. It was not FCA registered and the registered address was its 
accountants office. The postal address was a mailbox, although SE was able to establish a 
trading premises.
Another customer who had asked to transfer to another scheme administered by Warwick 
and Eaton had previously asked to transfer to two other schemes where pension liberation was suspected and where SE had refused to make the transfer. This made it concerned that 
other schemes administrated by Warwick and Eaton had similar traits.
It had noted on its records that customers wishing to transfer to these schemes should be 
asked to provide more information about the scheme, including charges and bank details so 
that SE could investigate further.
SE was also asked if it carried out any checks on the Birkdale scheme. It said:
It can see that a screenshot was taken from the FCAs website of a regulated business and 
believes that it may have been assumed that Mr B had regulated advisers when it was only 
recorded that Warwick and Eaton had professional indemnity insurance.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Time limits
The time limits for making a complaint are contained within the DISP (Dispute Resolution)
Rules. The specific time limits that are relevant to this complaint are contained in DISP 2.8:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its
final response or redress determination; or
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint
having been received.
The requirements that are particularly relevant here are that Mr B should have made his
complaint within six years of the event complained of, or three years from when he became
aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, that he had cause for complaint.
Principally Mr B has complained about the fact that SE didnt act correctly when it switched
his pension and it didnt undertake sufficient due diligence. His representative has said SE
didnt supply the Scorpion leaflet to Mr B or warn him adequately about the risks of his
pension switch.
Mr Bs representative complained on his behalf to SE by letter dated 22 January 2020. The
date stamp at the top of that letter would indicate that SE received it on 24 January 2020.
However Mr B did not refer it to this service until June 2020. As I understand it SE undertook
Mr Bs pension switch on 13 March 2014. Therefore Mr B didnt complain to this service
within three years of the act about which he complains. So that time limit has been
exceeded.
As to the three year time limit, Mr B has said that he realised that something might have
been wrong with his pension in May/June 2017. His representative has said that he then
approached Warwick and Eaton in order to obtain more information. It is therefore unclear
whether Mr B complained within three years of his initial concern about his pension. Be that
as it may, the crucial issue is when Mr B was aware he had cause for complaint about SE.
Mr Bs representative has said he was not aware of that until 2019 when it carried out
investigations on his behalf by his representative.SE was not the party that guided or advised Mr B to switch his pension. And it was not the
pension provider he transferred to where the loss occurred. So I do not see any persuasive
reason why Mr B would have thought in 2017 that SE had any liability. I do not therefore
believe that he was aware, or ought to have been aware, that he had cause for complaint
about SE in 2017, or more than three years from the point he made his complaint. Mr Bs
representative has said he became aware in 2019, which is within three years of the point he
made his complaint to this service.
SE has drawn attention to the withdrawals Mr B made as being the matter which would have
given him cause for complaint. As SE has itself said, Mr B made those withdrawals within
normal pension rules and legislation. He could have done so from a pension at SE (albeit not
exactly the same pension as he held). So there was nothing wrong or unusual in him making
those withdrawals  many people make such withdrawals in the normal course of events. Mr
B is not complaining that there was something untoward about those withdrawals or he didnt
want to make them. What he complains about is that he should have been given further
warnings about the switch itself.
Given that there was nothing in the practice of making normal permitted withdrawals from a
pension that would have alerted Mr B to any potential cause for complaint, I do not believe
the three year period starts when Mr B made withdrawals as is suggested by SE. Even then,
as discussed above, I dont believe he was aware at the point of making a withdrawal or his
last withdrawal that he had cause for complaint or ought to have had cause for complaint
about SE.
The merits of the complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and guidance
Before I explain my reasoning, it will be useful to set out the environment SE was operating
in at the time with regards to transfer requests and pension liberation as well as any rules
and guidance that were in place. Specifically, its worth noting the following:
The Pension Schemes Act 1993 gives a member of a personal pension scheme the
right to transfer the cash equivalent value of their accrued benefits to another
personal or occupational pension scheme.
Personal pension providers, like SE are regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority (the FCA). Prior to April 2013, they were regulated by the FCAs
predecessor, the Financial Services Authority (FSA). There has never been any
FSA/FCA rules that specify the checks providers need to do before someone can
transfer from a personal pension.
Prior to February 2013, and the launch of the Scorpion campaign, personal pension
providers often just checked that the receiving scheme was registered with HMRC
and would only investigate further if it was apparent that the transfer was, in some way, 
suspicious. However, ahead of the Scorpion campaign, its evident the FSA,
and other regulatory bodies such as TPR, were becoming increasingly concerned
about the dangers of pension liberation schemes.
On 10 June 2011 and 6 July 2011, the FSA warned consumers about the dangers of
pension unlocking. It referred to cold-calling and websites promoting transfers to
schemes that invest money overseas (such as in property) to avoid paying UK tax
and/or result in cash being drawn from the pension ahead of retirement, including as
a loan. Particular concerns related to the tax implications of these transactions, thefees charged and potential investment losses from scam activity. The FSA said it was
working closely with HMRC and TPR to find out more information and encouraged
affected consumers to contact FSA, HMRC or TPR helplines.
TPR announced in December 2011 that it was working with HMRC and the FSA and
had closed some schemes.
In February 2012, TPR published a warning, and factsheet, about pension liberation.
The FSA supported this campaign. It was designed to raise public awareness about
pension liberation rather than introduce new steps for transferring schemes to follow.
The warnings highlighted in the campaign related to websites and cold-callers that
encouraged people to transfer in order to receive cash or access a loan.
TPR guidance
TPR launched its scorpion campaign on 14 February 2013. The aim of the campaign was to
raise awareness of pension liberation activity and to provide guidance on dealing with
transfer requests in order to prevent liberation activity happening. Several bodies including
the FSA supported this initiative, so Im satisfied it was relevant to personal pension
providers such as SE.
The campaign involved an action pack that highlighted the warning signs present in a
number of transfer examples, specifically: being cold-called, money being transferred
overseas, incentives to transfer, inadequate information about investments and pressure to
complete a transfer quickly.
It suggested transferring schemes should look out for these issues, as well as receiving
occupational schemes that were newly registered or were suddenly involved in multiple
transfer requests. If any of the warning signs applied, the action pack provided a checklist
schemes could use. This checklist suggested asking the member for copies of promotional
materials, emails or letters about the scheme and asking for any further details about how
they became aware of the receiving scheme and how it had been described to them. If those
enquiries established the member had been advised, it went on to suggest checking whether
the adviser had been registered with the FSA. Where transferring schemes had concerns,
they were encouraged to consider delaying the transfer and to seek legal advice.
The Scorpion campaign also included:
A Pensions Advisory Service insert to issue to members when a transfer pack was
requested. The insert warns about offers to cash-in pensions early, cash incentives,
cold calling, being put under pressure to transfer and the potential tax consequences
of accessing pensions early.
A Pensions Advisory Service leaflet which gives more information, including real life
examples, about pension liberation.
FCA/FSAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN)
The FCA Handbook set out Principles and Rules that firms must adhere to when carrying out
business; and firms must always apply the principles, even when specific rules and guidance
from the FSA/FCA in a particular area are absent or evolving  as was the case with pension
liberation/scams/fraud.
The PRIN section of the FCA Handbook contains 11 principles and I consider the most
relevant principles in relation to transfer requests and pension liberation to be the following:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat
them fairly.
Principle 7  A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Did SE follow the relevant guidance and rules?
In my view SE should have sent Mr B the Predators stalk your pension insert that was
included in the action pack discussed above.
This insert was primarily warning of the danger of unlocking cash from pensions early
(pension liberation). It warned about receiving loans or cash incentives. It said that
consumers should watch out for being approached out of the blue, introducers who offered
cash incentives, companies offering loans and not being informed about the tax
consequences.
I have not seen evidence of pension liberation occurring here or Mr B being provided with
loans or cash incentives. The evidence is that Mr B was advised or guided to switch his
pension on the basis that he could then access his pension. He would appear to have little
knowledge about the investment chosen for him within that pension. We know that Mr B
then, over the next few years, withdrew all the money from his pension  which he could do
within the relevant pension rules because of his age.
So, the Scorpion literature at the time was primarily aimed at pension liberation  not merely
switching a pension from one pension provider to another. Although SE did not provide that
literature, it did provide some warnings or guidance. As discussed above, it provided an
indemnity for Mr B to sign that contained the following information or statements:
I have not been offered, and will not take a loan, savings advance, cash back, cash bonus,
or other incentive as a result of this transfer.
I have not been advised that if I proceed with this transfer request that I may be able to
access the proceeds from this transfer before the age of 55.
I will not take any proceeds from this transfer before the age of 55 unless I am in ill health
and satisfy the legislative requirement to take ill-health benefits from pension savings.
I have not been advised to invest my funds overseas
And:
Consumers have been warned to steer clear of pension offers that claim in be able to
provide loans or release tax free cash from people's pension pots before they reach age 55.
These types of arrangements are illegal and you may lose your entire pension and tax
charge of up to 55%.
The Pension Regulator, Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and HM Revenue and Customs
(HMRC) are urging individuals not to be taken in by website promotions, cold calls or adverts
encouraging them to transfer their existing occupational or private pension to a new
arrangement to access a cash payment.
Further information can be found here;
The Pension Regulator's fact sheet on pension liberation:
(Website address)
The FCA's warning on early release pension schemes:(Website address)
If you are concerned that any of the above may apply to you or you are approached and
offered the services we have described, please contact either the FCA via the Consumer
helpline on 0845 606 1234, HMRCs Pension Anti Fraud Unit on 0115 974 214/or the
Pension Regulator on 0845 600 0707. Please provide as much information as you can about
the services and firms involved, including their contact details and "firm reference number"
(FRN) if they claim to be authorised by the FCA.
So I think that SE did provide Mr B with information akin to that of the Predators stalk your
pension insert. We know that Mr B proceeded to switch to a new pension in any event.
SEs duty of care in respect of Mr B
Notwithstanding that Mr B was provided with the information discussed above, the action
pack set out matters or risk factors that transferring pension schemes should look out for
before making a transfer. One of those was newly registered pension schemes. The Birkdale
pension was such a scheme. The action pack then suggested that the pension scheme may
wish to contact the member wishing to switch or transfer to discuss the request to transfer or
switch more fully.
Here there were additional reasons why SE should have contacted Mr B. SE has said it had
various concerns about the Birkdale scheme at the time. I have set out those concerns,
which included that the Birkdale pension was newly established as were the pension
administrators and that there was some concern that the administrators may be involved in
pension liberation. It seems from SEs submissions that it had taken the serious step of
refusing a transfer in similar circumstances.
SE has said that this particular switch should have been referred to another department
within SE for further consideration and investigation. In my view, in observing its
responsibilities under Principles 2 and 6; conducting its business with due skill, care and
diligence and paying due regard to its customers interests, it should have contacted Mr B to
discuss its concerns. It would then have likely also discussed that Mr B had been cold called
and Mr Bs lack of clarity about where the money would be invested.
So SE would have indicated to Mr B there were specific concerns about the pension he was
switching to. That is more serious than the general issues that an individual might wish to
think about as contained in SEs indemnity. If Mr B had been told that SE had concerns
about the Birkdale pension itself, then I think it is likely that this would have altered his
decision to switch and his pension would have remained with SE.
I therefore believe the complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
Mr Bs representative has disagreed with the method of redress suggested by the
investigator. In the main this is because of the effect it says this would have on Mr B
because of his liability to pay his representatives costs. Also it says that there may be tax
consequences and, because of SEs actions, Mr B would not wish to have a pension with SE
again. Mr B also made comments of a similar nature.
My aim when considering appropriate redress is to put the complainant back in the situation
they would have been in if the error had not occurred. In this case Mr B has said he would
not have gone ahead with the switch and that would accord with the circumstances I have
discussed in this decision. So it would be right to suggest that the appropriate redress would
be to reinstate Mr Bs SEs pension as if he had not transferred, as the investigator set out.
I would not be of the view that the appropriate redress should be altered only because Mr B
has chosen to be represented in bringing his complaint or that his representative may be
charging him a fee for representing him.However in the specifics of this case I believe that modifying the approach to compensation
would be fair.
SE has said that there are practical issues with the method of redress suggested. It has said
that Mr B couldnt have made the withdrawals he did from the pension he held with it. It has
said that he would have needed to take SE approved advice before switching to another SE
pension so he could make withdrawals. Or he would need to switch his pension elsewhere to
do so. It has suggested if he had done so then there is no evidence he would have been in a
different position.
It is correct to say that we cannot be certain exactly what Mr B would have done had he not
switched to the Birkdale pension. But I am persuaded that it is more likely that he would not
have switched to the Birkdale pension and so would not have suffered the ramifications of
investing (of which he had no knowledge) within that scheme or suffered the encashment
penalties. So it would be right for Mr B to be compensated for that. And it is then reasonable
and fair to assume that he would have taken same steps with his SE pension in terms of
releasing money from it. It is fair to calculate compensation on that basis.
Bearing in mind that Mr B withdrew all his money from the Birkdale pension as cash and
assuming he did the same with an appropriate SE pension that allowed him to make
withdrawals, I dont think it is warranted in the circumstances to reinstate the SE pension, or
an SE pension. Instead I believe that fair redress would be for SE to calculate what total net
cash Mr B would have been supplied with had he remained with SE and with the same
investments within his SE pension. It should then compare this to the net cash amount
received from the Birkdale pension. Mr B should then be supplied with a sum equal to the
difference.
I note that SE has said that there is no apparent evidence that Mr B has been caused
financial loss. But that cannot be assessed until SE carry out the redress calculation and it
does appear that he suffered a very large encashment penalty (not just a tax charge) when
he took his final withdrawal from the Birkdale pension. I do not believe he would have
suffered that if he had not switched to the Birkdale pension.
What must SE do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, SE must:
Compare the total net cash received from Mr B's Birkdale pension with the notional
net cash he would have received if it had remained with SE. If the Birkdale net cash
is greater than the SE notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional net cash 
value is greater than the Birkdale net cash value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
SE should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, SE should pay this to Mr B direct without further deduction (as that is the net 
cash he would have received). That would be with the addition of interest from the date the 
last withdrawal was.
If either SE or Mr B dispute that these assumptions, they must let me know as soon
as possible so that the assumption can be clarified and Mr B receives appropriate
compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this assumption once any final
decision has been issued on the complaint.
Pay Mr B £300 for the inconvenience and upset caused. The evidence is that he has suffered 
financial loss and trouble in accessing his pension having switched to the Birkdale scheme.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If SE deducts income tax from theinterest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. SE should give Mr B a tax
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Any additional sum paid into the Birkdale pension should be assumed to have been added
in the same way to a SE pension.
Any withdrawal from the Birkdale pension should be assumed to have been made at the
same time from an SE pension, so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from
that point on. To keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if SE totals all those payments and
deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting
periodically.
If SE is unable to calculate a notional net cash value, SE will need to determine a net cash
value instead using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index.
The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using the benchmark,
which is then used instead of the SE notional value in the calculation of compensation.
To any loss amount should be added interest at 8% simple a year from the date of the
withdrawal to the date of my final decision.
My provisional decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Scottish Equitable trading as Aegon
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
In response to the provisional decision SE said:
It accepted that Mr B had made his complaint in time (although for somewhat 
different reasons than set out in the provisional decision).
The indemnity referred to in the provisional decision was not prepared by Aegon  
but was sent to Aegon with the transfer request. 
SE had been attempting to quantify Mr Bs loss whilst his complaint had been 
ongoing. It felt there was conflicting evidence as to the position of the pension that Mr 
B transferred to. It provided a table setting out what figures should be used in any 
calculation. And it asked for clarification as to how the loss calculation should be 
carried out. 
Some clarification was provided to SE in response and SE was also asked to confirm if it 
accepted the provisional decision  as it had not confirmed that in its response to the 
provisional decision.
In response SE said that it did not accept the provisional decision because:
It did not agree with the reasoning concerning the time limits set out in the provisional 
decision (although it agreed the complaint had been made in time)
Without clarification or determination of the losses suffered by Mr B it would be 
premature to make a determination. This is because the resolution is not workable as 
all the facts have not been determined. It didnt feel confident that it had the required 
information to perform the redress calculation. So it requested that I make a finding 
as to what figures to use in the calculation. It said that it would assist if some of the 
agreed points regarding the calculation that it raised in its original response to the 
provisional decision could be confirmed in a final decision.   
Mr Bs representative accepted the provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Time limits
SE has said that Mr B did complain to it within six years of the act about which he complains. 
It says that the transfer occurred on 13 March 2014 and Mr B complained to it on 24 January 
2020. I agree with its assessment and agree that Mr B complained to SE within six years. So 
the complaint would fall within my jurisdiction and I can consider it. For completeness I would 
confirm that my view remains that he also complained within three years of the point he was 
aware, and ought to have been aware, of cause for complaint about SE. 
The merits of the complaint
SE has disputed my finding that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Its submissions after the 
provisional decision concern the calculation of Mr Bs loss and it states that this needs to be 
determined before a final decision can be made.
Whilst I appreciate that SE would like all the factors that would determine the redress value 
to be established before a final decision is issued, I disagree that is necessary. Those 
matters can be settled or established after a final decision is made as to whether Mr Bs 
complaint should succeed. I have set out and will set out below how that calculation should 
be performed. Mr B will be required to, as far as he is able, supply information reasonably 
available to him to SE. And also provide any authority SE reasonably requires so that it can 
obtain the information to enable it to carry out my redress calculation. 
I confirm that I uphold Mr Bs complaint for the reasons set out in the provisional decision.   
Putting things right
I explained in the provisional decision my approach to the redress calculation. To reiterate, I 
set out that to compensate Mr B fairly, SE must:
Compare the total net cash received from Mr B's Birkdale pension with the notional 
net cash he would have received if it had remained with SE. If the Birkdale net cash 
is greater than the SE notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional net 
cash value is greater than the Birkdale net cash value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable.
SE should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, SE should pay this to Mr B direct without further deduction (as that 
is the net cash he would have received). That would be with the addition of interest 
from the date the last withdrawal was made.
Pay Mr B £300 for the inconvenience and upset caused. The evidence is that he
has suffered financial loss and trouble in accessing his pension having switched to
the Birkdale scheme.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If SE deducts income tax from the
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. SE should give Mr B a tax
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Any additional sum paid into the Birkdale pension should be assumed to have been added
in the same way to a SE pension.
Any withdrawal from the Birkdale pension should be assumed to have been made at the
same time from an SE pension, so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from
that point on. To keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if SE totals all those payments and
deducts that figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting
periodically.
If SE unable to calculate a notional net cash value, SE will need to determine a net cash
value instead using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index.
The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using the benchmark,
which is then used instead of the SE notional value in the calculation of compensation.
To any loss amount should be added interest at 8% simple a year from the date of the
withdrawal to the date of my final decision.
As discussed, SE has said that this redress calculation cannot be completed at this point in 
time, but I am satisfied that it can be undertaken subject to investigation by SE and further 
authority/information from Mr B. Any inconsistency between the values provided by the 
parties can then be resolved.
SE did ask for some clarification about the tax paid when the final withdrawal from the 
Birkdale scheme was made  as there was some inconsistent information. The parties can 
address that after this final decision is issued.
SE said that totalling all the withdrawals from the Birkdale scheme and deducting them at the 
end would produce an unfair result. That was an option open to SE that was set out in the 
redress calculation if it wanted to simplify the calculation. As the redress calculation sets out, 
if SE wishes to calculate redress based on when each individual withdrawal was made, then 
it can do so. 
SE asked for guidance as to how to apply further contributions Mr B appeared to have made 
to the Birkdale scheme. I confirm that it would be appropriate to undertake the calculation 
assuming that the same contributions had been made to an SE scheme. 
SE asked if the fees chargeable in the third year of the Birkdale scheme should be assumed 
to have been made on the third anniversary. I confirm that would be a reasonable approach.   
SE asked if growth/investment return is to be applied as at date of the last withdrawal. I 
confirm that is a reasonable approach.
Finally, SE asked if interest should be applied from the date of the last withdrawal. I am also 
of the view that this is a reasonable approach. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and order that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon calculate and 
pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022. 
David Bird
Ombudsman