DRN-2838824
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the service Metro Bank PLC provided when he requested to 
close an account, he held with it.
What happened
On 25 September 2017, Mr E opened a Fixed Term Deposit (FTD) account with Metro Bank 
online. Metro Bank has explained that when customers open a fixed term account an Instant 
Savings Account is automatically opened to allow the customer to transfer money from the 
Instant Savings Account into the FTD. However, if no funds are deposited into the Instant 
Savings Account the FTD isnt opened. As no funds were credited to Mr Ds savings 
account, the FTD was never opened. However, Mr Ds savings account remained open.
On 13 January 2021, Mr D says he contacted Metro Bank to ask it to stop sending spam 
mail and to close his account. He says, he was told that a restriction had been placed on his 
account and in order to close his account, he would need to wait for a magic word to be 
posted to him and he could log onto his online account using those details. Then the 
restriction would be removed, and he could proceed to close the account. 
Mr D says that he thought this was unnecessary as all he wished to do was close his 
account. When he received the letter, it didnt contain the information he required to close his 
account. The customer number hadnt been provided and Mr D was not aware he needed 
this to close his account.
Mr D raised a complaint with Metro Bank, in order to put things right Mr D wanted to be 
compensated for the time he spent pursuing the matter, the inconvenience caused and for 
his account to be closed. Metro Bank issued it final response, it said, its advisor, who Mr D 
had spoken to on 13 January 2021 had followed the correct process and this was in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account. However, it did accept that the service it provided 
(by not including the customer number in the letter it sent to Mr D) had fallen short of its 
expectations. And while it had provided feedback to the advisor it felt that it needed to 
recognise the inconvenience this had caused Mr D and offered him £25. At the bottom of the 
final response letter issued by Metro Bank, it stated:
Please do contact us if there is anything further we can do
Mr D remined unhappy, so he says he contacted Metro Bank to pursue the account closure. 
But he says he was told that nothing further could be done as it had issued the final 
response letter, as such he needed to refer the matter to our service to consider.
An investigator at our service looked into Mr Ds complaint but he didnt recommend that 
Metro Bank did anything further. Mr D remained unhappy, so the complaint was passed to 
me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E feels he shouldnt have had to login online to remove a restriction from his account in 
order to close his account.  He feels this process was unnecessary. And while I understand 
that Mr E feels he was inconvenienced by this, I dont think Metro Bank acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by requesting this. I say that because a Bank has a duty of care to protect its 
customers identity. In this case, Metro Bank choose to restrict accounts until a customer has 
logged in online or visited branch to show their identity. As Mr E had done neither, his 
account remained restricted. So, no instructions could be actioned until the restriction had 
been removed and Mr E had cleared the identity checks. This measure is put in place to 
protects its customers.
I have listened to a call which took place between Mr D and Metro Bank on 13 January 
2021. Having done so, I can see that the advisor said as there was a restriction on Mr Ds 
account, he would need to login online and once he had done that the account could be 
closed. And in order to do this, he would need to use a magic word which would be sent via 
post. 
However, the advisor didnt explain to Mr E that he would also need his customer number to 
login online. And given the fact the advisor was aware that Mr E had never accessed the 
account online before (as discussed during the telephone conversation), I think it would have 
been evident that he required it alongside the Magic Word. As such, I think its reasonable to 
suggest the advisor should have checked this with Mr E. So, I do appreciate why Mr E was 
frustrated when he received the letter from Metro Bank and it didnt contain the correct 
information in order for him to login online.
However, Metro bank have acknowledged and apologised for this error and explained it has 
provided feedback to the advisor to prevent this happening again in future. It offered Mr E 
£25 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused. 
Mr E is also unhappy that in Metro Banks final response letter it said:
Please do contact us if theres anything further we can do; however, if youre still unhappy, 
you have the right t refer your complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service
So, Mr E contacted Metro again to express his dissatisfaction with its response but Metro 
Bank advised he needed to refer the complaint to our service. So, Mr E feels he wasted 
more time contacting Metro Bank again. I do feel better communication could have been 
provided to Mr E in order to explain the process.
I have carefully considered the impact the service errors had on Mr E. And having done so, I 
am satisfied the offer Metro Bank made was fair. I say this because, while Mr E did have to 
contact Metro Bank on more than one occasion, I feel the time spent on this was minimal, as 
Mr E admitted himself (during the telephone call on 13 January 2021) that he hadnt had to 
wait long to discuss his complaint. Secondly, Mr E would have always needed to make the 
first call to Metro Bank as there was a restriction on the account. And as explained above, I 
dont feel Metro Bank acted unreasonably in regard to this. While I appreciate that Mr E had 
to wait a little longer than expected to close his account, I can see this was actioned in 
February. As such, I am satisfied that Mr E didnt suffer any financial detriment in relation to 
this. 
I agree, there have been service failings from Metro Bank which have caused Mr E a degree 
of inconvenience, but its important to consider the impact this has had. Having done so, I 
dont feel the impact on Mr E warrants further compensation. As such I wont be asking 
Metro Bank to do anything further.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman