DRN-2274630
The complaint
Mr H complains that, following a Pension Sharing Order (PSO) that was agreed in 2016, 
Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as AEGON) didnt action the PSO until four years later as it 
said it couldnt obtain details of his ex-wifes new pension provider. He says he could have 
provided those details if asked and doesnt think AEGON tried hard enough to make contact. 
He wants the fund to be split according to the PSO at the date it came into force. He also 
complains that his own pension transfer was delayed as it couldnt be completed while the 
PSO remained outstanding.
What happened
Mr H held a pension with AEGON. In 2016 he and his wife divorced, and Ms H was awarded 
50% of his existing pension under a PSO. In January 2017 AEGON received most of the 
information it required to carry out the order except for the details of Ms Hs pension 
provider. So it wrote to her four times during the next 12 months in order to obtain that 
information. But it didnt receive a response, so it wrote to Mr H to confirm or obtain her 
contact details. It wrote to Mr H five times up to December 2019 before he responded on 
20 December 2019 with another copy of the PSO. At the same time Mr H asked AEGON to 
transfer his residual pension plan to another provider.
So AEGON wrote to Ms H again in January 2020 and received a response with details of her 
pension provider. AEGON contacted the provider and began the process of carrying out the 
PSO which was completed on 30 January 2020. 
But Mr Hs transfer to a new provider hadnt been completed by this time, so in 
February 2020, he complained about the delay to his own pension transfer as well as the 
overall time taken to carry out the PSO. He made the following complaint points:
He questioned why his transfer hadnt been completed following his initial request of 
10 December 2019.
He didnt understand why his transfer couldnt have completed at the same time as 
the PSO was completed.
He said AEGON told him his transfer was going ahead before it cancelled it.
He didnt agree with AEGONs method of calculating the PSO and felt it should be 
based on the value in 2016.
He questioned why AEGON said it didnt have all the information it required when he 
and the courts had provided everything. He thought AEGON should have asked him 
if it needed anything further.
AEGON didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said it had calculated the number of units to be 
split on an effective date from 2016. But it used the price of those units as of the date it 
received all the outstanding requirements from Ms H. So it thought its calculation was 
correct. 
It also confirmed the attempts it had made to obtain Ms Hs pension providers details and 
said it was only able to carry out the PSO when it was made aware of these details. And it 
cancelled Mr Hs request to transfer his pension in December 2019 because the PSO wasnt 
complete and the transfer couldnt be actioned. It thought, allowing for some errors Mr Hs 
new provider made with the transfer request, it subsequently completed the transfer in a 
timely manner. 
Mr Hs funds were transferred to a new provider on 19 February 2020. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with the response so he brought his complaint to us, where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He made the 
following points in support of his assessment.
AEGON didnt have details of the new pension provider within the original PSO. So it 
contacted Ms H but didnt get a response. He thought Ms H would have been 
expecting a share of Mr Hs pension so thought she ought to have been ready to 
provide her providers details.
AEGON then contacted Mr H a number of times, but when it did receive a response it 
was provided with the same information that was in the PSO.
He thought AEGON had acted correctly in the way it had contacted Mr and Ms H 
using the addresses it held  and didnt know why Mr H, in particular, hadnt received 
the majority of the letters. He said he understood why AEGON would write to both 
parties bearing in mind the formal nature of the PSO. 
When AEGON received all the information it needed, he didnt think it had caused 
any undue delay in carrying out the PSO. He noted it was required to complete the 
PSO within four months and carried it out within one month of receiving all the 
outstanding information. 
It was unfortunate that Mr H wanted to transfer his pension at the same time, but 
AEGON couldnt conduct the transfer until it had completed the sharing order.
He was satisfied that AEGON had paid the correct amount to Ms H under the order. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said that AEGON should have done more to make contact with both 
he and Ms H. He offered a number of suggestions for alternative ways AEGON could have 
communicated with him and said its failure to do so had cost him thousands of pounds.
As no resolution could be found the complaints been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons. I know 
Mr H feels strongly about this matter and I have some sympathy for his position whereby he 
feels hes suffered a financial loss over the PSO and his own later transfer. But I dont think 
AEGON has done anything wrong here, which I know is an outcome that will disappoint Mr H 
 so Ill explain my reasons.
Should AEGON have done more to contact Mr H?
Ive seen a copy of a letter that AEGON received in January 2017, which included details of 
a PSO between Mr H and his ex-wife. It gave Ms Hs address but no other information about 
her. 
Crucially the section that requested details of the qualifying arrangement which has agreed 
to accept the pension credit was missing, so AEGON had to try to get those details before it 
could continue the process of applying the PSO. The notes within the same section confirmed that until the information requested was provided the PSO couldnt be 
implemented although it may be made. AEGONs responsibilities were also set out within 
the form and stated, you must discharge your liability within 4 months beginning with the 
later of: the information specified in paragraphs A,B and C of this annex and, where 
applicable, paragraphs G to J of this annex.
So, AEGON needed to find out where Ms H wanted her share of Mr Hs pension fund to be 
paid and had four months to complete that action once shed made AEGON aware of her 
providers details.
AEGON spent the following year writing to Ms H and then 18 months trying to contact Mr H 
asking for Ms Hs contact details  but these werent provided until January 2020. Mr H says 
this was unacceptable and that AEGON should have tried harder to contact him and his ex -
wife. He said AEGON could have sent registered letters, used emails or the phone to make 
contact and the matter would have been resolved. Mr H says he was unaware the PSO 
hadnt been actioned because he didnt receive any communication and only found out it 
hadnt been completed when he attempted a transfer of his own plan.  
And I can understand Mr Hs frustration here as it did take some considerable time to obtain 
the details AEGON needed to complete matters. But I cant safely say AEGON did anything 
wrong. I know Mr H would have liked it to have done more to contact him, but I think AEGON 
did enough here to get the details it required. I would have expected AEGON to have 
continued in its efforts to get the information it required, and I think a total of nine letters sent 
to both parties was a fair attempt to make contact. I havent seen any evidence to show that 
AEGON should have tried to contact either of them using alternative methods of 
communication and I note It didnt hold any alternative details for Ms H. In addition, AEGON 
says it only learnt of Mr Hs phone number when he told it to them in November 2019.
But in any case, its a matter for AEGON to decide how it should communicate with 
consumers and I cant say it did anything wrong in choosing to write to Ms H and then to 
Mr H. AEGON says it has a policy of using written communications for these types of 
official matters and Ive no reason to conclude that was unreasonable in the circumstances.  
Ive seen copies of the letters AEGON sent to Mr and Ms H and its been confirmed by Mr H 
that the correct addressees were used in all cases. So its not clear to me why none of these 
letters were received until the communication of December 2019. But Im satisfied that 
AEGON did sent them, and to the correct addresses, so I cant hold it responsible for the fact 
that Mr and Ms H didnt appear to receive the numerous requests for information. 
Did AEGON calculate the PSO correctly?
Mr H says AEGON didnt calculate the split of his pension correctly. He says it should have 
been based on the value given at the time the PSO was formalised. AEGON says it used 
that date in 2016 to determine the number of units to be split between the two parties but 
only calculated the value of the units at the time all the outstanding requirements were met  
which in this case were the details of Ms Hs new provider. As Ive already demonstrated, the 
PSO annex document said AEGON needed to complete the sharing order within four 
months of receiving the information specified in paragraphs A,B and C of this annex and, 
where applicable, paragraphs G to J of this annex.
AEGON received the information in January 2020 and used the value of the units to process 
the sharing order at that time. So I think it acted correctly in that situation. And it completed 
the process by the end of the same month, which was within the four months window it was 
allowed. So I dont think AEGON caused any delay there.Mr Hs pension transfer 
Ive seen how Mr H requested a transfer of his pension when he provided another copy of 
the PSO to AEGON in December 2019. He says he didnt know the PSO hadnt been 
applied as he hadnt received any correspondence to say it was still outstanding. But 
Mr H was responding to a letter he did receive from AEGON dated 16 December 2019 which 
wanted Ms Hs contact details to allow us to implement this order, we require the receiving 
insurers documents from your ex-spouse. 
So I think Mr H was made aware the PSO was still outstanding at the time, and therefore he 
ought to have realised it was unlikely his benefits could be transferred until the final value of 
the fund was determined when Ms H provided the necessary information to allow the PSO to 
be completed. It wouldnt have been possible to finalise a transfer to another provider 
without knowing the value of the remaining fund. 
But even if I am wrong about that, AEGON has provided evidence to show that a formal 
request to transfer Mr Hs funds was received on 17 January 2020. The PSO wasnt 
completed until 30 January 2020 so AEGON wasnt able to accept that initial transfer 
request. When AEGON told Mr H that he should tell his provider to resubmit his request in 
February 2020 the transfer completed within seven days, and I dont consider that to be an 
unreasonable time frame in which to complete such a transfer. 
I know Mr H says his funds could have been transferred at the same time as Ms Hs were 
sent to her new provider, but AEGON needed a formal request to transfer Mr Hs money, 
which unfortunately had been cancelled previously for the reasons Ive given. AEGON was 
unable to transfer the funds without a completed application from the new provider. 
Summary
I think AEGON did all that I would have expected it to do when trying to obtain the details for 
Ms Hs new pension provider. I dont think it acted unreasonably or did anything wrong when 
requesting this information. And I think it then completed the PSO, when it had received all 
the outstanding requirements, within the timescale it was required to do so. 
I think AEGON used the correct dates to calculate the final PSO value having previously 
decided the number of units each party would receive from the pension when the order was 
first agreed. So I dont think AEGON has acted unfairly here or caused Mr H to suffer any 
financial loss, so Im not going to ask it to do anything.
Its unfortunate that it took as long as it did to implement the PSO, but I cant safely say that 
delay was caused by AEGONs actions.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman