DRN-3012384
Complaint
Mr B has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly continued 
applying charges on his overdraft which caused him financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Bs complaint and thought NatWest should have 
realised Mr Bs overdraft had already become unsustainable for him by October 2015. So it 
needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Bs overdraft from this 
point. 
Despite being provided with a number of weeks to do so, NatWest didnt respond. So the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think NatWest acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from October 2015. By this point, 
it was evident Mr B was struggling financially. 
A cursory look at Mr Bs statements leading up to this period shows that he hadnt seen a 
credit balance for an extended period of time and the significant number of unarranged 
overdraft and returned item fees shows that he was struggling to manage. Equally, the 
credits going into the account didnt suggest Mr B was in any sort of position to repay what 
he already owed within a reasonable period of time either. 
So I think that by October 2015 NatWest should have stopped providing the overdraft on the 
same terms and treated Mr B with forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees 
and charges on the overdraft.
All of this means that NatWest should have realised that Mr B was experiencing financial 
difficulty and offered him assistance. As NatWest didnt react to Mr Bs account usage I think 
it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when he was already 
experiencing difficulty. So Im satisfied that Mr B lost out because of what NatWest did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what NatWest needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for NatWest to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from October 2015 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made NatWest should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Bs 
credit file, it should backdate this to October 2015.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
NatWest should remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. National Westminster Bank 
Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman