DRN-1441743
The complaint
Ms K complained that Canada Square Operations Limited (then trading as Egg) mis-sold 
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card in April 2001.
What happened
Egg was an internet based account. The policy was added to Ms Ks credit card account 
when she applied for the card via the Egg website.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms K disagreed.
Ms K mainly said that PPI wasnt something she wanted or needed as she was fully 
employed and had other ways to cover the cost of her monthly repayments if she wasnt able 
to work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ks complaint. 
I think Egg made Ms K aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. On the 
online application form Ms K completed she had to select the Yes option to include PPI. 
There was an option to say No. Ms K had to select one of those options in order to proceed 
with her application. There was no automatic default option that included PPI. 
So I think Ms K wouldve been aware that she had to make a decision about PPI at the time - 
even if shes forgotten this now. 
And I think shed have seen at the time that she couldve declined PPI if she hadnt wanted 
it. 
On balance, I find that Ms K knew she had a choice about protecting her card repayments 
and PPI was added to her account when she indicated she wanted to take it out. 
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Ms K so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
Ive taken into account that Ms K couldve relied on her employer paying her sick pay for at 
least 6 months. The policy couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months, on top of her sick 
pay. Bearing in mind that Ms K mightve also had some additional costs if she was too 
unwell to go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult 
time. 
No job can be guaranteed to be secure indefinitely. The policy couldve also protected 
Ms Ks credit card repayments if she lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Ms K mentioned having other insurance cover set up  but this doesnt mean that the PPI 
duplicated benefits she already had. 
PPI provided a different sort of benefit and paid out in different circumstances to critical 
illness cover  which pays out in the event of long term, serious, life changing or life limiting 
conditions. 
And life insurance is only paid on death. 
So having this other insurance set up doesnt mean that Ms K didnt have any use for PPI. 
I've taken into account that Ms K mentioned having substantial savings at the time. 
But I dont know if she wouldve always had savings to rely on as everyones circumstances 
can change. 
And it was up to Ms K to decide for herself if PPI was something she felt might be useful, 
knowing what other means she had to rely on and what her financial situation was at the 
time. I can see why Ms K mightve wanted to take out PPI  especially as having PPI meant 
she wouldnt be at risk of having to use her savings to cover her credit card monthly 
repayments and she could keep her money to spend on other things or to provide financial 
security. 
The PPI wouldve more than covered her Egg card monthly repayments and cleared her 
card balance if shed needed to claim for the full 12 months. 
So I think Ms K couldve benefitted from having the policy.  
There were some things the policy didn't cover. But it doesnt look like this affected Ms K. 
So, I dont think that knowing more about the conditions which limited the policys cover for 
some people wouldve made any difference to Ms Ks decision to take it out. 
Next to where Ms K was asked to decide about the PPI on the application she completed, 
the purpose of the cover is broadly described, the cost is set out and theres some 
information about the benefits it offers. The policy provided Ms K with the protection broadly 
described on the website which shed indicated she was willing to pay for. Ive seen nothing 
to suggest the policy was unaffordable for her.
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Ms K still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as PPI gave 
her useful protection in her particular situation.
This means I dont find that Ms K has lost out as a result of anything that Egg mightve done 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman