DRN-2697532
The complaint
Mrs I complains Match the Cash Limited trading as www.guarantorloan.co.uk brought about 
two guarantor loans for her irresponsibly. She says the loans were unaffordable to her.  
What happened
Match the Cash operated the electronic system in relation to the lending which led to the 
following loans being brought about:
Loan Date Capital Amount Term Monthly 
Repayments
One August 2016 £5,000 60 Months £195 (approx.)
Two July 2018 £7,250 60 Months £284 (approx.)
  
Mrs I says these loans were unaffordable to her. She says she was experiencing financial 
difficulties at the time she applied for them. She says Match the Cash did not complete 
reasonable enquiries before completing the lending process. She says had it done so it 
wouldve seen the loan was unaffordable to her.
Match the Cash says it didnt do anything wrong when arranging these loans. It says it 
completed reasonable enquiries at the point of each loan; and these showed the loans were 
affordable to Mrs I. Those enquiries included conducting an income and expenditure 
assessment verified by bank statements, and searching of Mrs Is credit file.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She felt there was sufficient 
information to suggest that the enquiries Match the Cash completed were not reasonable; 
and the information that was presented showed the loans were likely unaffordable to Mrs I.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Match the Cash is aware that it needs to complete reasonable enquiries before bringing 
about any lending for Mrs I. In essence it needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps 
to establish that Mrs I was able to make the necessary repayments for each loan. The 
enquiries that Match the Cash completed needed to be reasonable in relation to the amount 
of credit that Mrs I was applying for. It is also important to note that it is not enough for Match 
the Cash to simply complete the necessary enquiries; but it must also carefully consider the 
information it is presented with.
Having carefully considered all of the information in relation to this complaint, Im satisfied it 
should be upheld. Ill deal with each loan in turn.
Loan one
Match the Cash says its enquiries showed Mrs I was employed full time with an income of 
£2,400 per month. It also showed Mrs I was in receipt of some child benefits each month 
too. The expenses which it took covered Mrs Is mortgage, utility and existing credit costs. It 
also discussed the fact Mrs I was in a debt management plan and was paying approximately 
£220 each month towards this. It says it verified this declaration of expenditure through the 
use of a credit search and by checking Mrs Is bank statements for three months. Match the 
Cash says Mrs I wouldve been left with approximately £160 per month surplus after her 
repayments; and as such the loan was affordable. 
Ive considered whether these enquiries were reasonable enough for Match the Cash to 
progress with Mrs I application and make a fair decision to progress with the application; and 
in this instance Im not persuaded they were. 
Whilst Match the Cash mayve completed a number of checks; Im satisfied the information it 
did have suggested Mrs I was not in a position to repay any further lending sustainably. The 
checks it completed show someone who is not managing their finances well, and in 
particular someone who has had issues managing them in the past. There is sufficient 
evidence to suggest Mrs I wouldnt be able to meet the commitments of any further lending 
sustainably; and that any further lending would only be worsening her overall position 
further.
Mrs Is credit report shows that she has a high level of debt; and has a number of defaults 
with significant amounts of debt remaining also. Match the Cashs enquiries show that Mrs I 
had several defaults in the past 36 months. The defaults were registered across a number of 
different products including credit cards and unsecured lending. There was also records of 
Mrs Is mortgage being in arrears in the not too distant past. This paints the picture of 
someone who has struggled; and was finding it difficult to maintain their finances.
The bank statements which Mrs I provided continue to demonstrate her poor financial 
position; and showed that Mrs I was heavily overdrawn. The amounts going past £3,900 on 
a number of occasions. Importantly Mrs I doesnt appear to be improving this situation 
(placing considerable doubt on the disposable income Match the Cash calculated); and does 
not exit her overdraft at any point. In addition to this the statements show that Mrs I had 
taken out a significant amount of credit from a number of existing high cost credit providers, 
including a further guarantor loan, to supplement her overall income. Mrs Is outgoings were 
high, including unsecured lending as well as the fact Match the Cash was aware Mrs I was 
making repayments to a debt management plan too.
When considering all of this information Im persuaded it is clear Mrs Is outgoings are not 
being covered by her income. And that Mrs Is financial position was poor at best. It is clear 
she has had issues managing money in the past; and this pattern was continuing at the point 
of this application too. I appreciate Mrs I gave Match the Cash answers to some of these 
questions; but Im satisfied there was sufficient information to demonstrate Mrs Is financial 
position was such that any further lending would be not only unsustainable but harmful to 
her. And on that basis; Im satisfied Match the Cash should not have progressed her 
application further. And by doing so it has not acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs I 
when it brought about this loan. 
Loan two
Loan two was brought about in July 2018; and some of the funds were used to settle loan 
one. Match the Cash says it completed similar enquiries into Mrs I at this point. Match the 
Cash noted Mrs Is income was roughly the same as loan one; and that she was no longer making payments towards her debt management plan. Again, Match the Cash verified Mrs 
Is expenditure declaration by requesting copies of Mrs Is bank statements as well as 
searching her credit file. It says these enquiries showed Mrs I could afford the loan and as 
such it acted fairly and reasonably when bringing about this second loan.
Ive outline above why Im not persuaded Match the Cash acted fairly and reasonably in 
relation to loan one; and it follows for similar reasons that I dont agree it acted fairly in 
relation to loan two either. This is because loan two in part settled loan one; and Im satisfied 
that loan one should not have been brought about by Match the Cash; but also Mrs I was 
increasing the term and the amount she was repaying each month. 
In addition to this, from looking through the information Match the Cash had at the time of 
Mrs Is second application; it is clear her financial position was still such that any further 
lending wouldnt have been reasonable for her. And certainly not to a point where she could 
afford the increase in monthly repayments. 
Mrs Is credit report still does not show a healthy picture. Whilst some default balances have 
decreased, her overall debt hasnt. And noticeably her balance to limit ratio was now 
standing at 114%. The report also shows that she has had further defaults registered in the 
recent months. 
The bank statements show that Mrs I remains heavily overdrawn still; and to similar levels of 
loan one. She is again reliant on this overdraft facility for income; as she does not exit it; and 
remains at similar levels by the end of each month. There are times where she exceeds her 
limit and is charged amounts for using an unarranged overdraft. Again, it is clear Mrs I is 
struggling to manage her finances, and there are entries for debt collectors being paid; as 
well as further credit being used to supplement her income. This is contrary to the 
information Match the Cash was relying on; and strongly suggest her financial position is no 
better than it was previously. It is also apparent from looking through the statements that any 
income is not covering her necessary expenses. 
So based on this information Im satisfied that any further lending wouldve been 
unsustainable for Mrs I; and as such should not have been progressed. It follows that as 
Match the Cash brought about this loan; Im satisfied it didnt acted fairly and reasonably to 
Mrs I.
Putting things right
As Mrs I has ended up paying additional interest and charges on guarantor loans brought 
about by Match the Cash failing to act fairly and reasonably; Im satisfied Mrs I has lost out 
because of what Match the Cash did wrong. As such it needs to put things right. 
In order to do so; I require Match the Cash Limited trading as www.guarantorloan.co.uk to:
To add up the total amount of money Mrs I received as a result of having been given 
these loans. The repayments Mrs I made should be deducted from this amount.
a) If this results in Mrs I having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Match the Cash should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs I.To remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Is credit file regarding these 
loans.
 If Match the Cash Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs I how much its taken off. It should 
also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Match the Cash Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman