DRN-2390885
The complaint
Mr D complains that Sainsburys Bank plc (Sainsburys) says a loan account with them was 
in arrears, although he had made payments to bring this up to date.   
What happened
Mr D has two loan accounts with Sainsburys and following receipt of notices advising of his 
arrears Mr D says he telephoned Sainsburys and made a payment to bring these arrears up 
to date. Mr D was subsequently advised that he had only made a payment to one of the 
loans and not both. Mr D says during the call he had discussed both loans with Sainsburys 
and he believed he had made a payment to sort out the arrears on both. Mr D says that 
Sainsburys have also told him the other loan was administered by another bank when this 
was not true. Mr D wants the default notice on his credit file to be adjusted.
Sainsburys say they only discussed one of the loans with Mr D and he would have been 
aware at the start of the telephone call he was discussing one of the loans as he would have 
needed to have provided the loan account details at the commencement of the call. 
Sainsburys have accepted they did make an error regarding the information concerning who 
was responsible for the loan and offered Mr D a small compensation payment as way of an 
apology. Sainsburys say they have correctly reported the default position on the loan and 
have done nothing wrong. 
Mr D was unhappy with the response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator felt it wasnt Mr Ds fault that Sainsburys systems for administering loan 
accounts prevented their staff from understanding he had another loan with them. The 
investigator was satisfied when Mr D telephoned them to pay the arrears on his borrowing, it 
was for both of loans. The investigator asked Sainsburys to amend Mr Ds credit file and pay 
the £75 Sainsburys had already offered.
Sainsburys were unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
When considering this complaint, I have considered whether Sainsburys acted reasonably 
when they registered a default against Mr Ds credit file.
What happened here is Mr D had two loan accounts with Sainsburys and for various 
reasons Mr D missed monthly payments on both. Following receipt of default notices from 
Sainsburys for both loan accounts, Mr D says he telephoned Sainsburys to settle the 
arrears. 
Mr D maintains he contacted Sainsburys as he was in a position at that time to get his two 
loan accounts arrears brought up to date, which he says can be evidenced from his bank 
statements at the time. Mr D says it was Sainsburys responsibility to have told him he was 
only discussing one loan and not both as he believed.  
Sainsburys have explained to this service the two loans are administered by two different 
departments who look after, what they describe as their front and back loan books. 
Sainsburys also says the letters Mr D received would have different telephone numbers for 
the different departments. Sainsburys have also suggested the loan account numbers 
detailed in those letters would need to be identified by their staff during that call, so Mr D 
would have been aware he was only discussing one of the loans. In addition, Sainsburys 
say their operator wouldnt have access to or be aware of, the other loan account when Mr D 
telephoned them. 
I can understand the point Sainsburys make here that Mr D didnt mention the other loan 
when he telephoned them to make up his arrears and it is his responsibility to ensure he did. 
I am satisfied while Mr D is responsible to ensure he makes arrangements to make good his 
arrears, he shouldnt be expected to understand how Sainsburys back office processes 
operate to achieve that. 
This service has tried to obtain from Sainsburys a copy of the call recording, but this cant 
be provided nor can the default notice for the back loan. While a transcript of part of the call 
has been provided it doesnt provide what was said by either party when the telephone call 
was first made. It follows it has made it more difficult to understand who said what. I am of 
the view that even if Mr D was asked to quote a loan account number as identification as 
Sainsburys suggest, it still doesnt mean he should be aware at that point, they would only 
be looking at one loan in arrears with them and not all of his borrowing. Unfortunately, 
despite more than one attempt by this service to obtain this call recording, Sainsburys have 
been unable to provide it.
I have been informed by Sainsburys the latest default letters sent to Mr D showed he had 
arrears of approximately £550 on the front loan and £623 on the back loan. Sainsburys 
have confirmed during the telephone call in November 2019 Mr D was given an arrears 
settlement figure of £1146, which is similar to the amounts of the two default notices and it 
follows it is understandable why Mr D may have thought this was how much he owed for 
both loans, even if that wasnt the case. 
Its important to say here Sainsburys have a system in place they refer to as front and back 
loans with separate departments managing them, neither whom, I understand can view Mr 
Ds total borrowing with them. While this may be a system Sainsburys operate with, I dont 
think this is  something Mr D should be expected to know or understand when he contacted 
them about his arrears position with them. I am satisfied when Mr D telephoned Sainsburys 
he was looking to clear his arrears on both of his loan accounts, and I say this because from 
the partial transcript Sainsburys provided this service, they noted Mr D said, it is fully 
affordable for him to bring all his bills UTD . This suggests Mr D was looking at that time to 
do just that, bring all his bills (debts) up to date. The situation here is while I am satisfied 
Sainsburys never intended to prevent Mr D settling both his loan arrears at that time, the 
way in which they have administered these loans with separate departments has contributed 
to the misunderstanding on Mr Ds part in believing he had settled the arrears on both loans. 
Its worth mentioning as soon as Mr D was informed of the default being recorded, in a letter 
in late November, he contacted Sainsburys questioning this believing he had settled the 
arrears in his earlier telephone conversation with them. While Sainsburys will be disappointed with my decision, it follows I support the investigators 
view here and Sainsburys should now remove the default from Mr Ds credit file.
Putting things right
I instruct Sainsburys Bank plc to remove the default marked against Mr D with the credit 
agencies. They should also pay Mr D the £75 offered to recognise the trouble and upset 
caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Sainsburys Bank plc to remove the default marked against Mr D with the credit 
agencies. They should also pay Mr D the £75 they offered to recognise the trouble and upset 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman