DRN-2951393
The complaint
Mr L complains about Capital One (Europe) plcs (Capital Ones) handling of a claim he 
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Mr Ls claim about the quality and misrepresentation of a car he purchased using his credit 
card, is being considered by a court. In those circumstances, as the investigator has 
explained, this service will not usually consider that aspect of his complaint or provide any 
direction that may encroach on the courts decision. Thats the case here, but Mr L is also 
upset at the way his section 75 claim has been handled and thats not something the court is 
considering.
Ive thought about that aspect of Mr Ls complaint.
There are no time limits for how long a business can take to conclude a section 75 
investigation and its usual for an independent inspection to be arranged when there are 
quality concerns with a vehicle. Those inspections are seldom arranged on neutral territory 
as that will often prove difficult and impractical. I dont think it was therefore wrong of Capital 
One to arrange the inspection where they did.
I understand Mr Ls frustration as he feels he was lured into agreeing an inspection on the 
premise that the results would strengthen his evidence rather than diminish it. The email 
from Capital One to Mr L in May 2020 certainly gives that impression. I think Capital One 
should compensate Mr L for providing inaccurate advice. 
As Mr L had sought to reject his car with the first six months the relevant legislation would 
always have put the onus on the business to demonstrate the faults were not their 
responsibility and for that reason, even if the premise for the inspection wasnt explained 
properly, an inspection would always have been necessary to allow the business to clarify if 
they could defend the issue. So, whilst I think the business should compensate Mr L for their 
error I think £250 is sufficient.
I understand that Mr L felt he had to take the case to court to avoid legal proceedings from 
the dealership. He therefore says he had no option but to proceed with court action and 
thinks his legal costs should be considered. I dont think it would be reasonable for me to 
consider those costs as I think they could only be considered properly once the outcome of 
Mr Ls court case is known and thats an issue for the court to decide.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman