DRN-1920818
 
The complaint
Mrs C, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that she was mis-
sold a Guaranteed Equity Bond (GEB) by Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
In 2004 Mrs C was in her late sixties, married and retired. Her personal income was limited 
to her state pension plus a small employee pension, but she had a large amount of cash - 
just under £240,000 - held on deposit, generated from the sale of a property. 
Nationwide's adviser recommended that she invest £50,000 of this money. £30,000 went 
into the GEB, with the remaining £20,000 split across two unit trusts and an ISA. The 
GEB would pay a return based on the performance of the FTSE 100 Index over a five-year 
term - broadly speaking, 70% of any increase in the index over the term. But if the level of 
the index stayed the same or decreased Mrs C was guaranteed to receive her £30,000 back.
Mrs C's CMC complained on her behalf specifically about the GEB element of this advice. It 
said its disadvantages hadn't been made clear to Mrs C and if she'd known the true, low 
chance of its performance outstripping that of fixed rate bonds she wouldn't have agreed to 
it. 
Nationwide didn't uphold the complaint. It felt the recommendation had been generally 
suitable for Mrs C. The CMC then referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator 
also didn't think it should be upheld. He said, in brief:
It was reasonable that Mrs C would want to try to achieve a better return than deposit 
rates for some of her money, as a low risk investor.
The documentation provided to her highlighted the risks.
A product linked to the FTSE, but with a guarantee, was suitable for her. 
Fixed rate bonds may have been more beneficial, but the advice left Mrs C with a 
large amount of cash available and it was documented that there was discussion of 
deposit accounts and national savings.
The term of Mrs C's investment had coincided with the unforeseen financial crisis, 
which impacted the GEB's performance. 
The CMC didn't accept the investigator's view. It acknowledged that there'd been some 
discussion of alternatives but didn't feel these had been in any detail. The CMC felt it hadn't 
been clearly explained to Mrs C how the GEB would need to perform to outstrip the 
guaranteed returns of fixed rate bonds available at the time. For instance, the mid-level 
projection given in the illustration for the GEB was based on the FTSE rising by 4% annually 
over the term, but Nationwide had available a bond paying just over 5%. The CMC felt that 
even if the financial crisis hadn't occurred Mrs C would've been worse off with the 
GEB rather than fixed rate bonds.The investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, so the matter's been referred to 
me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
There doesn't appear to be any dispute that it was broadly suitable for Mrs C to be advised 
to invest the £50,000 from the £240,000 sum she had available. The advice left her with a 
significant sum to use as she wished; if necessary, to supplement her relatively low income - 
although I note that the household expenses were met by her husband, so this may not have 
been necessary. 
I think the recommendation to split the £50,000 across the GEB, the unit trusts and the 
ISA demonstrates that the adviser took care to diversify Mrs C's investment, both in terms of 
asset allocation and risk. The unit trusts and ISA focussed on corporate bonds and equities, 
and featured a higher level of risk than the GEB for balance. I note that the CMC has no 
issue with these recommendations.
Mrs C was categorised as a 'low risk' investor, which was described in part as someone 
"...willing to take some risk with a proportion of your savings. You accept that there is a small 
possibility that you could suffer a capital loss or shortfall'. Although Mrs C hadn't invested 
previously, it doesn't strike me as unreasonable that she was categorised in this way. And 
the position she was left in once the advice had been implemented, with around 80% of her 
money still in cash, I think suitably reflected this. 
So, it appears that the crux of the matter is really whether it was appropriate to recommend 
Mrs C put £30,000 into the GEB instead of fixed rate bonds. Clearly, with hindsight, it would 
have been better to do so, as in 2009 she only received back her original investment. But at 
the time, in all the circumstances, I don't think it was unsuitable. 
I note what the CMC has said about the level at which the FTSE would've needed to have 
performed to outstrip the guarantees available with fixed rate bonds. But if it hadn't been for 
the financial crisis on 2008 there's every chance the performance of the FTSE could have 
provided Mrs C with a better return. At the time of the advice the FTSE was on a steady rise 
and in the first couple of years of the GEB's term the index's performance was far 
outstripping the figures used in the illustration. 
Clearly there was always a risk with the GEB, inherent to investing in any way that's linked to 
the stock market. But I think the particular risk associated with the GEB - the risk of making 
no return, was a level of risk consistent with Mrs C's circumstances - ultimately, she had the 
capacity for a lack of return on this part of her investments. The suitability letter said, "You 
do not mind taking a risk with the return that you will receive on this £30,000 but you want to 
have the peace of mind knowing that you will at least receive back your initial investment 
amount at the end of the term". I think this is probably a fair reflection of the situation and 
Mrs C's understanding, given the context of the GEB recommendation - as part of a portfolio 
of investments - and as it reflected only 13% of her money. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman