DRN-2216820
The complaint
Mrs G says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs G bought the policy in 1994 at the same time as taking out a store card. It covered her in 
case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Mrs G and AXA a provisional decision on 31 August 2020, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mrs Gs store card application had a section for optional extras, one of which was PPI. It 
gave an overview of what the policy was for, and then had two options to choose from: one 
to take out PPI and one to turn it down. The option to buy PPI was ticked, the option to turn it 
down was left blank, and Mrs G signed the application to confirm her choices. So I think that 
AXA made Mrs G aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take 
it at the time  though I can completely understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so 
many years.
AXA didnt give Mrs G tailored financial advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. They did have to give Mrs G enough information to decide for 
herself whether the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs G about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs G chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like she 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
Mrs G explained she had generous benefits through work, and I dont doubt that shes given 
us her best recollections. But the amount of sick pay shes told us she had is very unusual 
considering her employer, her part-time position, her short length of service, and the fact that 
shed only just been made permanent. So its very unlikely that Mrs G had the level of sick 
pay that she recalls having. In any case, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of her work 
benefits and offered her more comprehensive cover, especially for when Mrs Gs benefits 
reduced to just a fraction of her normal pay.
More importantly, Mrs G told us that she moved to a different job just a week or so later, so 
Id think that she was planning to make that move when she took out the PPI. So that new 
jobs benefits wouldve been much more relevant to Mrs Gs decision than her old benefits. 
And from what Ive seen of that new employer, they wouldve offered only limited sick pay to 
new starters. So the PPI wouldve most likely offered Mrs G much more comprehensive 
cover, and couldve really been useful for her in case she was then off sick or lost her job. It 
also wouldve helped Mrs G effectively protect her joint savings, so that she and her partner 
could use them for other things. Finally, the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so 
Mrs G could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information 
about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
Lastly, Ive considered the rules about when lenders might need to refund some of the 
commission on the policy. But those rules only apply to lenders  and AXA werent the 
lender here.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
28 September 2020. AXA had nothing more to add. Mrs G added further comments, which 
Ill talk through below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs G felt secure in her career. But unexpected illnesses and redundancies 
can and do happen, even in jobs that feel secure. And in this case, Mrs G had only just been 
made permanent at her current job and was about to change employers, which was not the 
most secure of situations.
I also understand Mrs Gs partner wouldve been happy to help. But there was always the 
chance theyd be unable to help when needed. Further, this store card was in Mrs Gs sole 
name, not anyone elses. And the policy meant Mrs G wouldnt have to ask anyone else to 
make her store card payments for her if she was off sick or lost her job.
From what Ive seen, the sick pay at Mrs Gs new employer wouldve eventually scaled up 
over the years to be relatively good. But those benefits wouldve been really quite limited 
when she first started, as she was about to do at the point of sale. And in any case, as I said 
in my provisional decision, the PPI couldve still been really useful for Mrs G, especially for 
periods when her sick pay reduced to just a fraction of her normal pay.
Lastly, I understand that Mrs G didnt feel she was given good enough information about the 
PPI. But as I explained in my provisional decision, given that she was eligible for the policy 
and wasnt affected by any of the main things it didnt cover, that she chose to take it out, 
that it could be cancelled at any time, and that it couldve really been useful for Mrs G in her 
circumstances, I dont think that better information was likely to have put her off taking out 
the policy.
So while I understand where Mrs G is coming from, having reconsidered the case Ive come 
to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think the policy was mis-sold in this case.My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint about AXA France IARD, for the reasons set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman