DRN-3342718
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (Startline).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Startline, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Startline, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr P. The car here was about 
eight years old and had already completed about 85,000 miles when supplied. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect some wear and tear to be present, but I dont think theyd 
expect the engine to fail so soon. I think that would be considered a premature failure.
The relevant legislation asks us to consider whether a failure is premature as it says we 
should consider whether goods have proven durable. I think its reasonable to suggest that 
an engine and indeed a fuel rail should last the lifetime of a car and that a failure after 
90,000 miles would be considered premature. Im therefore persuaded that on the evidence 
available to me this car hasnt been durable and was of unsatisfactory quality.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months, as is the 
case here, we are to assume it was present at the point of supply, when Startline were 
responsible for the cars quality. The onus is therefore on them to demonstrate that the 
engine fault wasnt developing when the car was supplied and wasnt due to a durability 
issue but something else e.g. poor servicing.
I dont think Startline have been able to provide sufficient evidence to demonstrate that. 
Startline say thats because they were denied an opportunity to inspect the car as Mr P 
simply ploughed ahead with repairs at the garage of his choice. Im not persuaded by that 
argument. 
I say that because I can see Mr P contacted Startline before any repairs were approved. 
Startlines system notes show that he first contacted them on 27 May 2021. At that point the 
system notes show he was wrongly advised that it was for him to obtain an independent 
report to demonstrate who was responsible for the fault. That wasnt the case as the relevant 
legislation puts the onus on the business to demonstrate that when the fault happens so 
early into the agreement.
Startline say that Mr P didnt provide any evidence of the fault, but I dont think that was the 
case either. Startline have explained to us that Mr Ps preferred garage were in touch with 
them on 7 June 2021 before the repairs commenced. The garage explained that there was a 
fault with the fuel pressure. 
So, I think Startline were aware that there was a fault with the car and that they had ample 
opportunity to commission their own investigation or authorise a repair elsewhere. I dont 
think Mr P denied them that opportunity and indeed I can see that he regularly chased the 
business for advice on what to do next to get the car fixed.
The garage of Mr Ps choice identified that fuel pressure was low and changed the fuel rail 
and sensor. Mr P paid for that repair, but it didnt work as the garage subsequently identified 
there is damage to the engine. Ive thought about whether Startline should be held 
responsible for that repair cost and I think they should. I say that because I think it very likely 
a fuel rail replacement would have been the starting point for any repair here. The garage 
have shown the pressure was too low and Startline havent provided any alternative actions.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair a fault that is present at 
the point of supply. Ive considered whether it would be appropriate and fair to allow Startline 
to complete the repair that is now required to the engine, but Im not persuaded that would 
be the most reasonable course of action here. Thats because it seems a new engine is 
required and that would be unlikely to be cost effective given the cars current valuation. And 
also, because I think Starline had the opportunity to fix the car in May 2021 when Mr P first 
referred the issue to them; and Mr P has been waiting too long for a resolution.
So, Startline should collect the car at no cost to Mr P and they should end the finance 
agreement.
Startline should refund the £1,543.33 Mr P paid to have the fuel rail replaced and they 
should add interest to that refund.
Im not persuaded to tell Startline to refund the cost Mr P incurred recovering his car to (and 
potentially from) the garage for repair. This car had already completed quite a high mileage 
and I think some mechanical problems (but not these) would have been anticipated. Mr P 
would have been wise to ensure the car was covered for emergency breakdowns and had he done that he could have mitigated the cost to recover the vehicle.
Mr P has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to have the car recovered and 
hes been wrongly advised by Startline. Hes also had to escalate his complaint to this 
service when I think it could have been resolved earlier and hes experienced significant 
delays waiting for Startline to respond. Hes also explained that the whole experience has 
negatively affected his mental health. In those circumstances Startline should pay Mr P £225 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Mr P has been without the car, or any courtesy vehicle since 26 May 2021. Startline should 
therefore refund any finance instalments Mr P has paid them during this period (or waive 
them if they havent been paid). Theyll need to add interest to that refund too. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell STARTLINE MOTOR 
FINANCE LIMITED to:
End the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr P.
Refund the cost of repairing the fuel rail which was £1,543.33. Add 8% simple 
interest* per year to this refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund (or waive) any finance instalments Mr P has paid since the car broke down 
on 26 May 2021. Add 8% simple interest per year to this refund from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr P £225 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Remove any adverse information they may have reported to his credit file in relation 
to these issues.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Startline to take off tax from this interest. Startline must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman