DRN-2538977
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the quality of a car she acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
with BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services (Alphera).
What happened
In August 2017, Mrs T entered into a hire purchase agreement with Alphera to acquire a 
three-year-old used car, that had travelled around 20,200 miles. The total cash price of the 
car was approximately £29,700. The total charge for credit was around £5,170, so the total 
amount payable was approximately £34,870. Mrs T provided an advance payment of 
£1,000, so the monthly repayments on the agreement were around £565 over a 60-month 
period.
Approximately two years and four months after Mrs T acquired the car, it experienced a 
gearbox failure. This was after the car travelled approximately 16,000 miles in Mrs Ts 
possession and had a total travelled mileage of just under 36,000 miles.
Mrs T contacted Alphera and told them that the car experienced a gearbox failure, and that 
the local dealer estimated the cost of repair at around £10,900. Even though the car no 
longer had warranty, the local dealer said they obtained a goodwill contribution from the 
manufacturer to cover half of this repair. The dealership said that the electroclinic diagnosis 
of the car showed two fault codes and they concluded that it was an internal failure of the 
gearbox, so their recommendation was to do a replacement. One of the fault codes, they 
said, occurred 13 times. They also said that the gearbox does not need to be serviced 
normally until this type of car has travelled 38,000 miles. Mrs T questioned how a car which 
has a computerised gear changing system could fail in this catastrophic way - considering it 
had not even travelled 36,000 miles. She did not think she should have to pay for half of the 
repair, so she raised her complaint with Alphera.   
In March 2020, Alphera wrote to Mrs T saying they are not upholding her complaint. They 
said that whilst they agree that there is a general expectation that a gearbox should last 
longer than 36,000 miles, they say they have to consider the length of time she had been in 
possession of the car and that she had worry free motoring for two and a half years. In the 
correspondence they say that the length of time with the car in which Mrs T has not 
experienced this fault takes precedent over the lower than average mileage covered. They 
go on to say that The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) sets out a period of liability relating 
to faults for the first 6 months from the point of sale. They say that during this period any 
faults that arise is by default classed as their liability with the burden of proof on them. They 
say, however, that after the six-month period the role is reversed meaning that the consumer 
has to prove the fault was present at the point of sale. So, they conclude that by looking at 
the evidence on Mrs Ts case, they are unable to deduce and agree that the car was 
supplied in an unfit or unsatisfactory condition. 
Mrs T was unhappy with this, so she brought her complaint to this service. In the meantime, 
she has also paid £4,000.04 to have the have the car repaired.  
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. 
Alphera disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances. 
Mrs T acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. Alphera is the
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and is responsible for dealing with
complaints about their quality.
CRA covers hire purchase agreements such as the one Mrs T entered into. Under a hire 
purchase agreement, there is an implied term that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory 
quality. The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the 
description of the goods, the price paid and other relevant circumstances. I think in this case 
those relevant circumstances include, but are not limited to, the age and mileage of the car 
and the cash price. The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from 
minor defects, safety, and durability.
In Mrs Ts case the car was used, with a cash price of around £29,700. It had covered
around 20,200 miles and was approximately three years old when she acquired it, and it 
seems it was in a good overall condition. I would have different expectations of it compared 
to a brand-new car. But given the age, mileage and price paid, I think it is fair to say that a 
reasonable person would have high expectations of it and would expect the quality of the car 
to be of a higher standard than a car which is more road worn or has a lower price. Also, I 
think a reasonable person would expect it to be free from defects for a considerable period 
of time.
Alphera say that they believe it to be reasonably accepted that a durable car means having 
no prior gearbox issues for two- and a-bit years from the date of purchase, and even longer 
from the date of manufacture. They say that the onus falls on Mrs T to present evidence that 
the fault was either present or developing at the point of sale, and they say they have seen 
no evidence to suggest this. But I think Mrs T and her circumstances have demonstrated 
this, and Alphera has not provided anything persuasive to suggest otherwise. I will explain 
why. 
The dealership that diagnosed the car did not specifically state that the fault with the gearbox 
would have been present at the point of sale. But they have not made any comments at all 
regarding when the fault might have started to occur. They have however made other 
comments that are important to mention. One of these comments was that this type of the 
gearbox does not need to be serviced normally until a car has travelled 38,000 miles. So, I 
think a reasonable person would expect a gearbox not to fail before it was even due for its 
first maintenance. Also, I think the fact that the manufacturer of the car decided to split the 
cost of the repair with Mrs T is important, as it speaks to the fact that they too, most likely, 
would not expect a gearbox to fail when it did; considering the age of the car and the mileage it had travelled at the time. Even Alphera themselves, when they wrote to Mrs T in 
March 2020, stated that there is a general expectation that a gearbox should last longer than 
36,000 miles. So, all of this leads me to think that the reasonable expectation was that the 
issue Mrs T has experienced should not have occurred when it did.
I think a reasonable person would not expect a fault with the gearbox to appear on the car 
for several for years and more than 36,000 miles travelled. So, it is also reasonable to take 
into account the nature of the problem and whether it is fair to say the car or components 
were reasonably durable.
I understand that a gearbox may experience wear over time, but taking into account the 
circumstances in this case, I think most likely a reasonable length of time for gearbox to last 
would be more than 36,000 miles. Considering that a gearbox failure is a significant problem 
to arise on a car and it can be very expensive to put right  the dealership initial estimated 
the cost of repair at around £10,900 and once the manufacturer agreed to split the cost with 
Mrs T, she ended up paying £4,000.04. Given how relatively low the overall mileage of the 
car was, I do not think this was a cost a reasonable person would expect to bear or a fault 
that would be expected to arise.
Alphera, at one point, said that they have no evidence to show that the Mrs T has not driven 
this car harshly suggesting that the fault might be due to user misuse, or that it may be user 
induced. But I have not seen anything to demonstrate that is likely to be the case. The 
dealership that examined the gearbox has not suggested this as a possibility either. Also, I 
think if that if the fault was due to Mrs T, the dealership would not have been able to get the 
manufacturer to agree to split the cost of the repair with her. And, I agree with the 
investigator that, most likely, in an automatic gearbox there is less opportunity for driver error 
or driver induced damage. Mrs T only did around 16,000 miles during the two years and four 
months she had the car, which is less than around 6,900 miles a year. So, given the low 
mileage she had covered during this time, I do not think it was reasonable to expect the 
problem to have occurred when it did. I have also considered that when the dealership did 
the electroclinic diagnosis of the car, they concluded that it was an internal failure of the 
gearbox based on the two fault codes; and one of those fault codes, they said, occurred 13 
times. So, considering the high number of times this fault code was registered, the fault most 
likely was developing for an extended period of time. 
Considering all of the above, combined with the age and mileage of the car, I do not think a 
reasonable person would consider it satisfactory for the car to need a new gearbox so soon. 
So, I do not think the car, and specifically the gearbox, was sufficiently durable. For this 
reason, I do not think the car was of satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
The CRA sets out that where the supplied goods are not of satisfactory quality, the 
consumer can require the supplier (Alphera in this case) to fix any faults. Mrs T has already 
had the gearbox repaired, so Alphera no longer need to carry out the repairs. However, as 
Mrs T has paid for those repairs when she should not have needed to, I think it is fair that 
Alphera refunds those costs to her. To this amount they should also add 8% simple interest 
per year from the date she paid for the repairs to the date of settlement.  
Mrs T has understandably gone through a degree of inconvenience and stress while she 
was without the car, so, considering the circumstances, I think it is fair that Alphera pay her 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services to:
1. Pay Mrs T £4,000.04 to cover the cost of the repairs.
2. Pay Mrs T £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
3. Add 8% simple interest per year to point 1 above; from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
If Alphera considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award, it
should provide Mrs T with a certificate showing how much they have taken off so she can 
reclaim that amount, if she is eligible to do so.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman