DRN-4004577
The complaint
Mr D complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a type of personal pension arrangement, in 2007. He 
says the advice was unsuitable and has caused him a financial loss.
A.P. Financial Services UK Ltd is responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things 
simple Ill therefore refer mainly to APFS. 
What happened
Mr D was a deferred member of the OPS which was operated by his previous employer, a 
large company. Hed accrued 14 years worth of benefits and in 2007, it seems that Mr D 
enquired about whether he ought to consider transferring out to a different scheme, such as 
a personal pension plan or annuity provider. He was also interested in drawing some tax-
free cash from the pension in due course.
APFS completed a fact-find analysis in August 2007 to establish Mr Ds circumstances and 
financial objectives:
He was aged 49 when the advice process commenced. He was also employed in a 
new role earning £19,000 per year plus more in overtime and bonuses. 
Mr D had no demonstrable financial assets and no financial dependents. He had no 
debts recorded. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ds DB scheme at the time was 
around £39,164. This was adjusted up slightly, a few weeks later, to £39,433. The 
normal retirement age (NRA) of the scheme was 65.
Mr D transferred away from his DB scheme in November 2007. He complained to APFS in 
2022 saying that it had facilitated a transfer away from his DB pension scheme and this had 
caused him a financial loss.
However, APFS says that in its dealings with Mr D, it initially told him that transferring away 
from his DB scheme wasnt recommended. It says it issued a suitability letter with a 
recommendation against transferring away. It says Mr D was an insistent client  a term 
used within the industry when a client wants to go against what was recommended to them 
by their adviser. APFS maintains that transferring away on this basis was Mr Ds decision 
and that he was given warnings about what he was doing. 
The complaint was then referred to our Service. One of our investigators looked into it and 
first confirmed this was a complaint we could look into. He later assessed the merits of the 
case and said we should uphold it. He thought APFS hadnt treated Mr D correctly when 
categorising him as an insistent client. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business and the Code of Business rulebook 
(COB). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of APFSs actions here. The 
regulators guidance, set out in its rulebook (COB - 5.3.29) was: 
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should: 
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and 
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
Having considered all the circumstances in this case, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. My decision is along broadly the same lines as given by our investigator.
The financial viability of transferring his pension
Normally when examining a DB pension transfer, Id start off the process by assessing 
whether transferring away could be justified from a financial comparison perspective. This 
would usually involve looking at and considering the growth assumptions that were 
reasonable at the time and whether the transferred funds could grow to such an extent to 
make the transfer worthwhile. 
APFS seems only to have properly retained a certain number of documents from the time of 
the advice. This is unfortunate: we see many cases from this time period and my own 
experience is that businesses are usually able to supply us with most of the relevant 
documentation when a pension is involved. However, as our investigator pointed out, no 
transfer analysis document seems to have been retained by APFS in this case and so we 
cant determine what the critical yield was here.  
The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same benefits 
as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show how 
likely it is that a personal pension arrangement could achieve the necessary investment 
growth for a transfer-out to become financially viable. Because APFS hasnt got a transfer 
analysis document, we dont know what the critical yield was.
We do know the type of pension Mr D had though. And again, using my experience, I think 
its fair to say that it contained a number of valuable guarantees and benefits, including 
index-linking with inflation and a pension for life. There were also next to no investment risks 
for members of the scheme.However, none of these things really matter in this particular case. This is because APFS 
said in its recommendation that Mr D ought not to transfer his DB pension because it was 
most likely unsuitable for him. Theres no dispute about that. APFS has maintained this 
stance after Mr D raised his complaint, in 2022. 
So, to be clear, APFSs position here is that transferring away from Mr Ds DB scheme was 
unsuitable for him back in 2007. And having said this both at the time of the advice and 
when Mr D raised his complaint to our Service, it would clearly be very hard for it now to 
argue that transferring was suitable.
Instead, the main crux of this complaint is whether APFS acted improperly by facilitating the 
pension transfer, nonetheless, which it did in November 2007. For this, Ive looked at what 
happened and whether what APFS did was fair and reasonable. 
What happened during the advice process?
I think there were a number of failures by APFS in its dealings with Mr D. 
I mentioned above that certain documentation hasnt been retained. However, I also think 
that the other evidence we still do have access to, gathered during the fact find process for 
example, ought to have been clear to APFS that Mr D most likely had very limited pensions 
knowledge and certainly no experience of investing. Hes told us this was the case and I 
think his general financial circumstances and attitude at the time, as recorded on a fact-find 
seem to solidly back this up. Mr D also had no wider financial assets and told APFS that he 
had no interest in making a will. So, I think it should have been obvious that Mr D wasnt at 
all financially aware and he needed to be advised very carefully. The information he was 
given needed to be explained in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading.
APFS also says the adviser concerned had been told by Mr D that he desperately needed 
money, but that he was unwilling to expand on why this money was needed. However, given 
Mr Ds recorded circumstances at the time, I can see no obvious need for cash that was so 
urgent or desperate as to make transferring his pension the right thing to do. APFS failed to 
record any rationale that substantiated an apparent desperate need for cash. And even 
though the fact-find section about his finances was very poorly completed by the adviser, 
his earnings, to me, looked very much like they supported a moderate degree of 
discretionary spending. 
All these things show me that even if I were to accept the very vague references APFS now 
makes to Mr D somehow urgently requiring cash, there would probably have been numerous 
other ways of achieving his objectives in getting it. None of these seem to have been 
explored.
However, it seems that the adviser went on, nonetheless, to facilitate the transfer away from 
the DB scheme, mainly to secure for Mr D, a 25% tax-free lump sum from the transferred 
pension. The apparent plan was to spend the cash on something unknown and invest the 
remaining amount in an annuity, from which Mr D could draw an annual sum.
In my view, this was quite a remarkable failure by the adviser. I think by any reasonable 
standards of the profession, it is fair to say that when faced with such a situation the adviser 
should have explained to Mr D that he could only really ascertain what was in his best 
interests  and so provide advice to him - if the adviser was in possession of all the relevant 
facts. Why cash was evidently needed was certainly a very relevant fact, and not knowing 
why someone wants to irreversibly transfer away from a DB scheme to access cash is not, in 
my view, fulfilling the obligations APFS had as regulated financial advisers. In any event, Mr D was aged just 49 and so was unlikely to have any concrete retirement 
plans or a realistic idea of what his financial needs in retirement might be. That none of 
these types of things were even recorded by APFS was another significant failure.
Was Mr D really an insistent client? 
APFS says it categorised Mr D as an insistent client; this is a client that wishes to take a 
different course of action from the one recommended and wants the business to facilitate the 
transaction against its own advice. APFS carried this out for Mr D.
The suitability letter was issued on 19 September 2007. In my view this was a poor 
document. It was unduly short and contained no real information which would have allowed 
Mr D to make an informed choice. It made reference to Mr Ds existing scheme having 
benefits which hed lose, but it failed to comprehensively set out what these were. So Mr D 
wouldnt have been able to really see the whole value of what he was giving up. The letter 
said, you engaged my services to obtain as much tax-free cash as possible, for reasons 
best known to yourself from your [pension fund]. You had no other matters you wished to 
discuss.
I dont believe the evidence is plausible that Mr D even was an insistent client. The 
evidence Ive seen is strongly suggestive of him not being experienced in these types of 
financial matters and so was heavily influenced by his advisor. 
APFSs explanations were poor and its communications about what it was really 
recommending for Mr D were unclear. It told Mr D, for instance, that transferring wasnt 
necessarily in his best interests which I think could have been clearer. And, as Ive implied 
above, it didnt comprehensively explain why. In the same short letter, APFS recommended 
a fund provider which he could use to transfer to anyway, thus seriously undermining its 
principal advice at the head of the letter.
I think all this would have been confusing for Mr D. On one hand APFS was saying that 
leaving his scheme wasnt the right thing to do (although it used language which could have 
been much clearer). But on the other hand, it was recommending how  and to whom - he 
could transfer.
Of course, its hard to say what influenced these shortcomings although Ive seen evidence 
that Mr D was considering retaining the paid services of APFS as his ongoing financial 
adviser after the transfer took place. However, there was an opportunity here for APFS to 
deliver the no transfer advice clearly to Mr D and to allow him the space and time to digest 
this. 
This could have allowed Mr D to think carefully, and if he still wanted to transfer, APFS could 
have re-engaged with the objectives Mr D had. It could also have explained why going 
against its advice was against his best interests. If hed simply needed to borrow money, for 
instance, then it could have recommended a loan. Nothing was recorded in any of APFSs 
documents suggesting this simple route wouldnt have been more appropriate and possible. 
But the information simply wasnt clear enough and APFS immediately went into transfer 
mode and facilitated him leaving his DB scheme. 
If APFS had followed a much better process, I dont think Mr D would have insisted on going 
ahead with the transfer. I say this for the following reasons:
It would have been clear to Mr D what he would be losing out by transferring his 
deferred benefits.Theres no evidence that Mr D, an inexperienced investor, desired any input or 
control over pension. Its also difficult to see why moving to an annuity was right for 
him, given the type of pension he already had.
Mr D was paying for independent financial advice, and if that advice had been much 
more persuasive about the suitability of remaining in his DB scheme, I think its more 
likely that hed have followed that advice, rather than being pushed immediately 
down an insistent client route.
Other issues
Ive thought a great deal about the points APFS made following our investigators View. 
APFS says that it thinks Mr D was given enough warnings about transferring. It also says he 
signed some documents showing he understood the risks. APFS even says that Mr D signed 
a document effectively abrogating it of responsibility.
However, Im afraid I take a different view to all these claims. It was APFS that was the 
regulated adviser here. It was being paid for advice  and its job wasnt simply to transact 
what Mr D thought he wanted. APFSs job was to really understand Mr Ds needs and 
provide advice that was in his best interests. Ive described above how it failed to do this, 
primarily neglecting to even understand what the tax-free cash was for.
As far as Mr D signing some forms is concerned, Ive seen nothing that shows he really 
understood the magnitude of what he was signing. As Ive explained, Mr D wasnt ever put in 
a position where he could really make an informed choice. Nor am I satisfied the words used 
on these forms were his words, rather than the adviser merely seeking to justify his own 
actions. 
For example, in August 2007, Mr D signed what appears to have been a client declaration. 
In my view, this is no more than an acknowledgement that the fact-find to which this was 
attached had taken place and that he confirmed it was accurate. Whilst I accept the adviser 
inserted their own words about Mr D wanting to transfer, in my view this is of no relevance to 
the complaint. It does not indemnify the adviser of his significant failings up until that point. 
On 19 September 2007, Mr D signed a Pension Vesting Agreement which I doubt he would 
have understood. In any event this was a pre-formatted and short document which only 
confirms again that hed been given a certain amount of information. It does not negate the 
failure to provide Mr D with the information he needed to make an informed decision.
Summary
In this decision I have set out why I dont think Mr D met the definition of an insistent client. I 
think there is substantial and verifiable evidence that this process was used by APFS simply 
to transact what Mr D may have thought he wanted to achieve at the time  to transfer his 
pension away from his DB scheme. 
APFSs recommendation not to transfer was not comprehensive, meaningful, or easy to 
understand. It did not adequately explain why transferring out was not in Mr Ds best 
interests, in a way that was personal to him or with reference to his objectives. There was no 
corroborating evidence that Mr D required immediate and urgent access to cash and the 
adviser failed to ask appropriately searching questions about what the money was for. 
APFS then immediately offered Mr D a very easy route to transferring his pension anyway, 
via a series of signatures on pre-populated forms. In this respect, the advice did not meet the standard I mentioned at the beginning of this decision about being clear, fair and not 
misleading.
If Mr D had been given clear and persuasive reasons why transferring wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he would have followed advice to remain inside the DB scheme. Mr D went 
to APFS seeking advice. I think its much more likely that he would have followed that advice 
had it been delivered with the skill, care and diligence required and shown to be in his 
interests.
APFS failed in its duty, so Im upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr D, through his representative, whether he preferred any redress 
to be calculated now, in line with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be 
published. He didnt specify a preference, so I am therefore satisfied that a calculation in line 
with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr D. 
Compensation should be based on his schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. This calculation should be carried out as at the 
date of my final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of that 
decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds 
acceptance of the decision.
APFS may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date APFS receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes APFS to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect APFS to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint.
I now direct A.P. Financial Services UK Ltd to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out 
in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
A.P. Financial Services UK Ltd to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only order A.P. 
Financial Services UK Ltd to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
A.P. Financial Services UK Ltd pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on A.P. Financial 
Services UK Ltd. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D 
can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Michael CampbellOmbudsman