DRN-2966907
The complaint
Miss L complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Blue Motor Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Miss L under a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance that was entered into in January 2020. She complained to Blue Motor Finance 
about some issues with the car, including water ingress and a coolant leak, in May 2020 and 
the car was inspected by a garage in June 2020. The dealer then paid for the car to be 
repaired in July 2020 and Blue Motor Finance reimbursed Miss L for the cost of the 
inspection.
She complained to Blue Motor Finance again after the car had been repaired because the 
car was still leaking coolant but it said that the car had been repaired. Miss L arranged for 
the car to be inspected again in October 2020 and a suspected coolant leak from the header 
tank was identified, with a repair cost of £813.77. Blue Motor Finance arranged for the car to 
be inspected by an independent expert later that month but no coolant leak was found.
Miss L continued to have issues with the car so paid for to be inspected again in January 
2021. It found that water was coming into the car from a damaged door seal. The dealer 
repaired the door seal but Blue Motor Finance said that there was no evidence of a coolant 
leak so Miss L complained to this service. She says that shes not used the car since then 
and has made a statutory off road notification about the car.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. She said that the car 
had been repaired but was still faulty and she didnt think that the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. She recommended that Blue Motor Finance should: cancel the 
agreement; collect the car; remove any negative information regarding the agreement from 
Miss Ls credit file; refund all but three of the monthly payments made by Miss L for the car, 
with interest; refund £17.98 that Miss L paid for coolant, with interest; refund the cost of the 
October 2021 inspection, with interest; and pay Miss L £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience this situation has caused her. 
Blue Motor Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It has 
provided a detailed response to our investigators recommendations from the dealer which 
says, in summary and amongst other things, that:
the inspection that found the coolant leak took place in May 2020  before the car 
was repaired  not in October 2020;
the inspection reports only confirm a fault with the engine prior to the repair in July 
2020 and that the water ingress due to damaged door seals is due to either wear and 
tear or some form of accidental damage;
the car was seven years old, had been driven for 70,000 miles, was inspected by 
Miss L and she didnt raise any issues with it within 30 days of it being supplied to 
her; and
it repaired the car in July 2020 and, as a gesture of goodwill, repaired the door seal in 
January 2021 and theres no evidence that the car is currently faulty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Blue Motor Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss L - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car that was supplied to Miss L was about seven years old, had been driven for 
about 70,000 miles and had a price of £4,990;
Miss L complained to Blue Motor Finance about issues with the car in May 2020, less 
than four months after the car was supplied to her, and its notes say: The customer 
advises she noticed a problem at the beginning of the lockdown. The customer 
advises the floor in the back of the car was soaking wet. The driver side back door 
seal is taped at the back and water keeps leaking in the car feels very damp. The car 
is leaking coolant and this was noticed ever since the customer had it. Customer 
advises it has been topped up 4/5times;
the dealer arranged for the car to be repaired in July 2020 and the engine was 
replaced with a used engine - but Miss L says that it was still leaking coolant;
she paid for the car to be inspected in October 2020  theres some confusion about 
this inspection because the inspection report has a date of May 2020 on the top left 
hand corner but the report says that the date that the car went in for inspection was 
in October 2020; 
the garage has confirmed that the inspection took place in October 2020  so after 
the repair that was arranged by the dealer;
the inspection report identified a suspected coolant leak from the header tank with a 
repair cost of £813.77  Im satisfied that this inspection did take place in October 
2020 and shows that there was still an issue with coolant leaking from the car after it 
had been repaired;
the car was also inspected by an independent expert in October 2020 but no coolant 
leak was found;
in complaints such as this one, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances;
Miss L complained about a coolant leak in May 2020 (which she says has been 
happening since the car was supplied to her), the car was repaired in July 2020 but 
she said that it was still leaking coolant, an inspection in October identified a 
suspected coolant leak, and she says that the coolant level was dangerously low 
when the car was returned to her after the door seal had been repaired in January 
2021 - she says that shes not used it since then and has made a statutory off road notification about the car  shes also provided a receipt to show that £17.98 was 
paid for coolant in January 2021;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the car had a coolant leak that was 
present or developing when it was supplied to Miss L and that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at that time because of that issue;
the dealer has arranged for the cars engine to be replaced but I consider it to be 
more likely than not that theres still an issue with coolant leaking from the car; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Blue Motor 
Finance to allow Miss L to reject the car and to take the actions described below.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Blue Motor Finance to 
end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Miss L  both 
at no cost to her. I find that it should also remove any information about the hire purchase 
agreement that its recorded on Miss Ls credit file.
Miss Ls use and enjoyment of the car has been significantly impacted by the issues with it  
and she says that she hasnt used the car since it was returned to her in January 2021. I find 
that it would be fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to refund to Miss L all but the first 
three of the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement, with interest. I 
consider that it should keep those three monthly payments as payment for the limited use 
that shes had from the car.
Miss L has provided evidence to show that £17.98 was paid for coolant for the car in January 
2021 and shes provided evidence to show that she paid £54.60 for the inspection in October 
2020. I find that Blue Motor Finance should reimburse her for those costs, with interest.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Miss L. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to pay her £200 to compensate her for 
that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ls complaint and I order Blue Motor Finance Limited to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Miss L  both at no cost to her.
2. Refund to Miss L all but the first three of the monthly payments that shes made 
under the agreement.
3. Pay £17.98 and £54.60 to Miss L to reimburse her for the costs that she incurred 
for the coolant and the inspection report.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove any adverse information about the hire purchase agreement that its 
recorded on Miss Ls credit file.
6. Pay £200 to Miss L to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.HM Revenue & Customs requires Blue Motor Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. Blue Motor Finance must give Miss L a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman