DRN-2068968
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line didnt deal with his breach 
of contract claim under the legal expenses cover included as part of his home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr S wanted UKI to deal with his claim against solicitors (G) for delaying his case and giving 
him poor advice. Mr S said when his case went to court the judge said the case had been 
misconceived. And due to the delays G caused Mr S was now out of time to take his claim 
forward. Mr S asked UKI to deal with a claim against G for breach of contract and 
professional negligence.
UKI declined to deal with the claim. It said there was no cover for professional negligence. It 
also said the policy didnt cover contract disputes unless the dispute was at the employment 
tribunal, as this situation wasnt, UKI said no cover applied. Unhappy with this Mr S brought 
his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He accepted what UKI had said, he put it that if 
the case Mr S was asking G to take up on his behalf wouldnt be covered by the legal 
expenses policy then a claim for professional negligence couldnt succeed. Our investigator 
further accepted UKIs point that unless the claim was to the employment tribunal for the 
employment dispute it wasnt covered under the policy.
Mr S didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S appointed G in relation to a dispute with his former employer about his pension 
provision. Mr S had found out that the pension arrangements made for him by his former 
employer were wrong and hed been entitled to a higher pension amount. Mr S said that the 
advice from G meant when his case went to court the judge said it was misconceived and 
out of time. Mr S wanted to take action against G because of this. He said in line with the 
policy there was a breach of contract for the purchase of goods and services. Based on this 
UKI considered his claim against G for professional negligence.
Regarding professional negligence the policy said:
We dont cover claims arising from or relating to:
professional negligence in connection with any matter not covered under this section 
(Section 4).
UKI said where the matter wouldnt come under the terms and conditions of the legal 
expenses policy  there was no cover. I think the policy is clear on this point. UKI consider 
what Mr G is trying to claim against G to be under the heading of professional negligence 
and the policy clearly specifically excludes this.
On the contractual point UKI referred to the policy which said:
We will pay costs for any dispute you have with your current or former employers at an 
Employment Tribunal.
The policy also said:
"We don't cover claims arising from or relating to:
* disputes that start in or are transferred to the county court or high court or the equivalent 
courts in the territorial limits."
I think the intention of the legal expenses policy here is again clear. Its saying any dispute 
with a former employer will only be covered if it goes to the Employment Tribunal. Mr S 
wasnt taking a case to the tribunal his dispute is about the amount of his pension.
I think on both points UKI has highlighted why the legal expenses cover doesnt operate for 
Mr S claim against G. Its clear that there is no cover offered under the policy for the 
circumstances Mr S wishes to pursue. I think UKI acted fairly and reasonably when it 
declined to deal with the claim.
Mr S has made the point throughout that this isnt about his employment, as he isnt working, 
or about his pension. But I dont think UKI, our investigator or I have suggested it is. The 
point made by UKI and I accept is that the legal expenses policy excludes what Mr S is 
trying to claim for.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman