DRN-3263346
The complaint
Mrs and Mr A complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a curtailment
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs and Mr A have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with their building
society.
On 1 August 2020, Mrs and Mr A travelled to a country Ill call F. They were due to return on
15 August 2020. At that point, F was part of a travel corridor with the UK. This meant that
there was no advice against travel to F from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development
Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office).
However, on 13 August 2020, the FCDO updated its advice and removed F from the travel
corridor because of rising cases of Covid-19. This meant that the FCDO was advising
against all but essential travel to F. And with effect from 4am on 15 August 2020, any
travellers returning from F would need to self-isolate at home for 14 days from the date of
their return.
Mrs and Mr A changed their travel plans so that they could avoid the need to self-isolate. So
they arranged to return to the UK a day early, on 14 August 2020. They made a claim on
their travel insurance policy for the costs associated with cutting short their trip.
UKI turned down Mrs and Mr As claim. It accepted that the FCDO had advised against all
but essential travel to F. But it noted that the FCDO had also advised travellers who were
already abroad in F that they didnt need to return to the UK. So it didnt consider itd been
necessary for Mrs and Mr A to curtail their trip.
Mrs and Mr A were unhappy with UKIs decision and so they asked us to look into their
complaint. They were also unhappy because they felt UKIs website was misleading as to
when cover would apply.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs and Mr As complaint should be upheld. He accepted that
the curtailment section of the policy covered changes to FCDO advice. But in this case, he
noted that Mrs and Mr A had told us theyd returned early to avoid the need to self-isolate.
This wasnt something the policy covered. And hed considered the FCDO advice at the
relevant time. While the FCDO had advised against all but essential travel to F, it hadnt
advised those already there to return to the UK. He didnt think there was evidence of a
change in the FCDO advice until 16 August 2020  after the trip had been cut short. In
addition, he noted that Mrs and Mr A hadnt called the assistance team before curtailing their
trip. Overall, he felt it was fair for UKI to turn down the claim.
Mrs and Mr A disagreed and Ive summarised their responses to our investigator. They were
concerned that the investigator was placing emphasis on the reason for their early return,
rather than the policy terms, which did cover changes to FCDO advice. They provided
evidence which they felt showed that the FCDO advice had been changed on 13 August
2020 and so theyd amended their travel plans accordingly.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 November 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think Mrs and Mr As complaint should be upheld. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms and conditions of Mrs and Mr As policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide
whether UKI treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Mrs
and Mr As contract with UKI. As Mrs and Mr A cut short their holiday, I think it was
appropriate for UKI to assess the claim in line with the Cutting Short your Trip section of the
policy. This section provides cover for reasonable additional travel costs if a policyholder
curtails their trip due to one of a listed, specific set of insured events. One of these is:
FCO travel advice: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advice against All travel or All but
essential travel to your destination, provided that advice came into force after your departure
on your trip.
Theres no dispute that at the time Mrs and Mr A travelled on their trip, there were no FCDO
restrictions on travel to F. Theres also no doubt that if Mrs and Mr A had returned as
planned on 15 August 2020, theyd have had to self-isolate for 14 days, following Fs
removal from the travel corridor.
Ive carefully considered the publications Mrs and Mr A have sent us, together with the
archived information on the FCDOs website from the relevant dates. Its clear that on 13
August 2020, the FCDO did announce that F would be removed from the travel corridor list
and that from 4am on 15 August, returning travellers would need to quarantine. It isnt clear
from that information exactly when F was removed from the travel corridor list. I accept its
possible it was removed on 13 August 2020 and that the FCDO advice changed on that
date. Its also possible that the change took place at 4am on 15 August 2020, when the self-
isolation restrictions came into force. This would mean there wasnt FCDO advice against
travel in force at the time Mrs and Mr A returned to the UK. What seems clear is that the
FCDO website didnt record an updated change in advice until 16 August 2020.
But even if I were to accept the 13 August 2020 as the date the FCDO advice changed, this
still doesnt currently lead me to find that Mrs and Mr As complaint should be upheld. Ill
explore this further.
First, the publication Mrs and Mr A have provided us with says:
People currently in F are encouraged to follow the local rules and check the FCO travel
advice pages on GOV.UK for further information.
As Ive set out above, there doesnt seem to have been any update to the FCDO website
regarding F until 16 August 2020. Once the FCDO website was updated though, on 16
August 2020, it said:
The FCO is not advising those already travelling in F to leave at this time. You should follow
the advice of the local authorities on how best to protect yourself and others, including any
measures that they bring in to control the virus. Contact your travel operator if you have any
questions about your return journey.
It seems to me then most likely that even if the FCDO webpage had been updated before 16
August 2020, there was no advice for those already in F to return home. So based on theevidence before me, I currently think that at the time Mrs and Mr A arranged to cut short their
trip; there was no FCDO advice that they should do so. The curtailment section of the policy
also includes a list of things UKI specifically excludes from cover. One of these says that UKI
wont pay for:
Any claim for a natural disaster when the local or national authorities have confirmed that it
is safe to stay.
The definition of a natural disaster set out in the policy includes a medical pandemic. Given
it seems the prevailing advice from the FCDO at the relevant time was specifically that
travellers didnt need to return from F, I think this exclusion wouldve also applied to the
circumstances of Mrs and Mr As claim. On this basis, I think UKIs decision to turn down the
claim was reasonable.
And like the investigator, I too need to be persuaded that Mrs and Mr A returned to the UK
because of something the policy covers. When they brought their complaint to us, Mrs and
Mr A told us that theyd curtailed their trip because they wanted to avoid the self-isolation
period theyd have faced if theyd returned when theyd planned. I think then that this was the
reason they likely curtailed their trip. This simply isnt something the curtailment section of
the policy covers.
The curtailment section of the policy says, in bold:
This section provides cover if you need to cut short your trip. Please contact our
emergency assistance service as soon as reasonably possible if you are outside your
home area and you need to cut short your trip.
I think its clear that the contract requires policyholders to call the assistance service if they
need to cut short their trip. I havent seen any evidence that prior to arranging to return to the
UK, Mrs or Mr A did so. If they had complied with this policy term, I think its likely theyd
have been told that there wasnt any cover for their situation. I say that because theres no
evidence that the FCDO was advising travellers in F to return at that point.
Mrs and Mr A feel strongly that UKIs website was misleading. I agree that the wording of it
would tend to support the suggestion that claims of this nature would be covered. And if I
were persuaded that Mrs and Mr A had only made curtailment arrangements because of this
information, I may have reached a different outcome. This isnt the case though. I think that
due to the fact that Mrs and Mr A didnt want to self-isolate, theyd always have decided to
cut short their trip, rather than remain in F. Im not persuaded that they cut short their trip
based on the website alone (if at all). So I dont think I could fairly find that theyve lost out
because of any ambiguity or misleading information UKI was displaying at the relevant time.
Overall, while I sympathise with their position, as I appreciate theyve been left out of pocket,
I currently find that it was fair and reasonable for UKI to turn down Mrs and Mr As claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
UKI accepted my provisional findings.
Mrs and Mr A disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, they felt that Id been 
determined to ignore the facts that their policy provided curtailment cover in the event that 
FCDO advice changed. FCDO advice had changed and so theyd curtailed their trip. They 
felt it was surprising that we did not have our own archives of FCDO information. And they 
queried why theyd have curtailed their trip early if the advice hadnt changed until 16 August 2020, given the additional stress this had caused. Their reasoning for curtailing the trip was 
personal and irrelevant. It was based simply on the repercussions. However, they felt I 
should focus on the factual basis and should be the sole focus of my opinion. They also felt 
that revisiting the facts given the time that had elapsed since the claim was made was 
wearing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr A, I still think it was fair for UKI to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
I agree that the terms of Mrs and Mr As policy provide cover in the event that a policyholder 
cut shorts their trip, following the FCDO advising against all but essential travel to a 
policyholders destination while theyre abroad. My decision has focused on whether I 
consider Mrs and Mr A have shown that their trip was curtailed due to a change in FCDO 
advice.
As I explained in my provisional decision, it isnt clear from the FCDO online archive (which 
Ive researched and referred to), or the sources Mrs and Mr A have provided, when exactly F 
was removed from the travel corridor. The FCDO website didnt update its advice to reflect 
this change until 16 August 2020.  What is clear is that from 4am on 15 August 2020, UK 
nationals returning from F needed to self-isolate for 14 days. And it still appears to me that 
Mrs and Mr A chose to cut short their trip to avoid the need to self-isolate following their 
return.
But as I set out, even if I accept that F had been removed from the travel corridor on 13 
August 2020 and that therefore, on this date, the FCDO was advising against all but 
essential travel to it, I would still conclude that it was fair for UKI to turn down the claim. 
Thats because even once the FCDO advice relating to F was updated, the FCDO wasnt 
advising UK nationals who were already in F to leave at that time. I think this is most likely to 
have been the FCDOs position on UK nationals in F on 13 August 2020 too. That means 
there was no FCDO advice in place to return to the UK from F. So I dont think the claim falls 
within the scope of curtailment cover. And as I explained, the policy specifically excludes 
claims for a natural disaster where the local authorities have confirmed its safe to stay. Im 
still satisfied that this exclusion is likely to have applied to the circumstances of Mrs and Mr 
A's claim.
I do appreciate that Mrs and Mr A found themselves in a situation which was beyond their 
control and I can entirely understand why they wished to return to the UK. I also 
acknowledge that Mrs and Mr A made their claim almost 18 months ago and so I can 
understand their frustration at revisiting the facts of it now. But for the reasons Ive given, I 
think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to turn down their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman