DRN-4124161
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with their claim for damage 
following an escape of water at their home. 
Any reference to QIC includes its agents. 
The home insurance policy was in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer only to Mr C 
throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mr C had a home insurance policy which was underwritten by QIC. The policy covers loss or 
damage caused by fire, smoke, explosion, lightning, earthquake, flood, storm, escape of 
water, and theft; amongst other things. 
In October 2022 Mr C noticed the shower tray in his bathroom had dropped and says he 
couldnt understand how it could have happened. The tiles on the bathroom floor also started 
to lift from the floor on the other side of the shower cubicle. 
So he contacted his insurer to make a claim and QIC referred the claim to its claim handlers. 
Mr C says he received an email saying the claim had been validated and requested that he 
pay the excess on the policy. 
A couple of months later Mr C received a letter explaining the claim had been declined. Mr C 
says he doesnt understand how the claim can be valid one month and then not a few 
months later. Mr C says he was told the original scope of the work had increased to around 
£15,000. But he says some items had been included which were not required to repair the 
water damage. 
Mr C says after examining the damage caused by the cracked shower tray he could see the 
water had rotted away several of the floor joists, along with damage to the flooring that will 
require replacing. As a consequence of the damp he will also need to redecorate. As a result 
of the water damage his family can no longer use the shower and the weakened floor is a 
risk to people entering his home. 
Mr C wasnt happy with the service from QIC and complained. QIC said Mr Cs claim was 
reviewed by the field surveyor and the in-house surveying team. It said the build-up of mould 
where the shower tray used to be situated, suggests that water would have been escaping 
behind this seal as it had degraded. QIC said since the shower tray was removed and 
disposed of it was unable to validate the cracked shower tray as a cause of the damage. 
Since the claim couldnt be validated QIC declined it. 
Mr C wasnt happy with the response received from QIC and so he referred his complaint to 
this service. He said he wants QIC to pay him £10,000 to repair the damage, and £2000 by 
way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator looked into things for him. She said since the shower tray had been 
disposed of QIC werent able to validate the claim. She agreed the photographs showed the 
mould referenced in the surveyor report. And since QIC relied on its experts evidence to 
decline the claim she didnt think it had come to an unreasonable conclusion to decline the 
claim. 
Mr C disagreed. He said the claim was initially accepted and then later QIC declined the 
claim. Mr C didnt think the leak was due to a failed seal and believes the policy should cover 
the damage caused by the leak. Because Mr C didnt agree the complaint has come to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr C has strong views about what has happened and I can empathise with the 
situation he finds himself in. I have read and considered everything I have received carefully. 
My role is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Mr C. 
Having considered all the evidence carefully Im not upholding the complaint. I appreciate Mr 
C has been through a difficult time and I know this isnt the answer he wanted. So I will 
explain why. 
Not all damage a home sustains is covered by a home insurance policy. In order for there to 
be a valid claim under a buildings insurance policy the damage must have occurred as a 
result of an insured peril. These perils, or events, are specified in every policy and include 
reasons such as storm, flood, and fire. If the damage being claimed for cant be said to be as 
a result of one of these perils, then there can be no valid claim from the start. 
QIC says Mr Cs claim isnt covered by an insured event. It referred to the escape of water 
section of the policy. So Ive reviewed this to see what cover it provides. The policy says;
We will cover loss or damage caused by; 
a. Escape of water from any:
I. Fixed domestic water installation;
II. Heating system (including radiators and boilers); 
III. Washing machine, dishwasher, fridge or freezer;
at your property. 
I can see Mr C does have cover for damage cause to his property by an escape of water. 
But the policy makes it clear that if damage was caused by, sealant or grout failing to work 
properly, or by an inappropriate sealant or grout being used it wasnt covered under the 
policy.
All parties accept there was an escape of water at the property. But, as above, what is 
disputed is whether the damage was as a result of a problem with the grout and sealant. 
When relying on a policy exclusion to decline a claim, QIC need to show its more likely than 
not that the exclusion applies. So in this case QIC need to evidence the damage was indeed 
caused by problems with the grout and sealant. 
When considering Mr Cs complaint I have relied on the expert opinions provided by both 
parties. I understand Mr C strongly believes the leak was caused by the crack in the shower tray. Mr C says the plumber who carried out the work confirmed he followed the 
manufacturers installation instructions which said to base the shower tray on sand and 
cement. 
I have read the surveyors notes provided to me by QIC. It says the following, clear 
evidence the ingress was progressive over many yearsfollowing my visit its very obvious 
that this had been an ongoing issue mainly due to the work to install the showeralso the 
mastic seal around the tray was thick with mould. If the tray was cracked the most likely 
cause would be the floor rotting out and dropping downgetting in behind the tray seal and 
poor grouting. The policy says that QIC dont cover, loss or damage caused by sealant or 
grout failing to work properly, or by an inappropriate sealant or grout being used. Based on 
the information provided Im satisfied QIC have shown the damage to Mr Cs property was 
more likely than not caused by failed or fault sealant and grout. So I think it made a fair and 
reasonable decision to decline the claim. 
Mr C is unhappy the claim was originally accepted and subsequently declined. QIC 
explained the surveyor discussed the scope of works with the contractor, and this was sent 
to QICs regional surveyor for review. The surveyors assessment was the damage appeared 
to have occurred over a period of time. And so QIC visited Mr Cs home again to investigate 
further. 
Following that visit the claim was declined. While I appreciate it would have been frustrating 
to be told the claim had been accepted and then be told it was declined, QIC are entitled to 
inspect the damage and investigate the claim to ensure the conditions of the policy are met. 
There is no dispute there has been a leak and damage as a consequence of that leak. 
However I havent seen anything which persuades me the damage was caused by a crack in 
the shower tray, or that the water ingress occurred suddenly. I say this because the mould 
present together with the nature of the damage suggests an ongoing issue. And any 
evidence which may have existed has since been destroyed when the shower tray was 
removed.
My role isnt to decide the cause of the damage. It is to look at whether QIC acted fairly and 
reasonably, and within the terms of the policy. Mr C has said the terms of the policy are 
unfair and that QIC should cover the cost of the repair. But insurers are entitled to 
investigate and validate any claim they receive and consider it against policy terms. QIC is 
allowed to decide the risks it is prepared to cover. Home insurance policies dont cover every 
eventuality. So I cant say QIC were wrong to decline the claim on the grounds it did. 
The crux of the matter is that QIC havent seen anything that shows the damage to Mr Cs 
home is as a result of a crack in the shower tray. Rather the evidence shows its more likely 
the leak has been ongoing for some time, caused by failed grout/sealant. Mr C hasnt 
provided sufficient evidence to support his view the damage was caused by an event 
covered by the terms of his policy. So I think its fair and reasonable for QIC to have declined 
his claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Kiran ClairOmbudsman