DRN-3773709
The complaint
 A company which Ill refer to as N complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) 
delayed releasing their charge on its property. 
In bringing this complaint, N is represented by its director who Ill refer to as Mr B
 
What happened
 In September 2019 N completed a £785,000 12-month term loan with Shawbrook. The loan 
was secured on business premises owned by N. The term of the loan was extended a 
number of times after completion  including, in June 2021 when the date for repayment was 
revised to September 2021.  
Mr B has told us that in October 2021 Shawbrook were informed of Ns intention to sell part 
of the business premises. He said the bank responded to say the account was already 
overdue and a week later, Shawbrook issued a redemption notice to N requesting settlement 
of the loan within seven days. 
N repaid the loan and after doing so, on 20 October 2021, N asked Shawbrook to release its 
charge. In that connection, on 29 October Shawbrook called N and spoke to Mr B. In the 
course of the conversation, the bank asked him to confirm with whom hed refinanced. But 
Mr B said he didnt think that was a matter for the bank and gave details of a complaint hed 
already made about Ns treatment by Shawbrook. The bank employee noted Mr Bs 
comments, apologised and agreed to escalate the matter. 
On 8 December Shawbrook and Mr B had two conversations about the funds N had used to 
repay its loan. In the follow up to their conversations, on the same day Shawbrook wrote to 
N as follows:  
could you kindly confirm the source of funds? We were advised by you that you used 
personal funds to redeem the loan however, we would be grateful if you could confirm the 
nature of those personal funds.
Mr B responded by return saying:
for your simple query, I dipped into my savings to loan [N] and repay its loan after I was 
left with no option but to pay within a week. I hope this answers your query
On 17January 2022 in an e-mail to Mr B, Shawbrook asked him for documentary evidence 
showing the source of the funds used to settle Ns loan. Mr B asked the bank to refer to the 
email hed sent on 8 December 2021 which he believed addressed Shawbrooks query. 
 
Towards the end of January 2022 Ns solicitors asked Shawbrook for confirmation and proof 
their charge had been released. But the bank told them it hadnt yet done so because N had 
refused to provide proof of the source of the funds used to redeem its loan. 
On 2 February 2022 Mr N provided evidence to the bank of the source of the funds and on 
21 February 2022, the bank released its charge. 
Mr B believed N was poorly served by Shawbrook and that the bank was responsible for 
delays in releasing its charge on Ns property. Mr B believed that even though hed given 
Shawbrook the information theyd asked for regarding the redemption funds, it was 
sometime later they eventually released their charge. Mr B felt the bank should pay £4,000 
to N by way of compensation.  
The bank addressed Ns complaints in its Final Response Letter dated 13 May 2022. 
Shawbrook didnt think they were at fault and did not accept they were responsible for 
causing the delay for which Mr B said they were responsible. Shawbrook said that as part of 
their process to safeguard the bank and its customers against financial crime, they 
appropriately carried out various checks before releasing their security. And to that end, on 
29 October, 8 December 2021 and 17 January 2022 they asked N to provide evidence 
showing the source of the redemption funds which N delayed providing. 
Shawbrook did, however, acknowledge some poor service; but specifically, in relation to 
attempts to refund an overpayment that N had made to the loan. So, they paid N £50 to 
recognise the frustration that had been caused.   
Mr B wasnt satisfied with the banks response and referred Ns complaint to this service. 
Our investigator felt Ns complaint should be upheld because he was satisfied Shawbrook 
had delayed removing their charge on Ns property. He believed that on 8 December 2021 N 
had responded accurately to Shawbrooks actual request. And whilst, the response was not 
what Shawbrook was looking for, it wasnt until weeks later - on 17 January 2022 that the 
bank more accurately asked for the information it needed. More specifically, evidence to 
show the source of the redemption funds. He was persuaded that throughout that time, and 
to his inconvenience Mr B had to chase the bank, his solicitors as well as provide assurance 
to his buyer that the sale transaction was still going ahead. In the circumstances, therefore 
the investigator recommended Shawbrook pay an additional £150  on top of the £50 theyd 
already paid to N. 
Mr B accepted the investigators recommendation. However, Shawbrook didnt agree the 
complaint should be upheld. They maintained their position that they did in fact ask Mr B for 
proof of the source of the funds, not just their origin. Shawbrook rely on phone calls noted 
above and their 17 January 2022 email when they said they simply asked for the same 
information again.  
Since the matter has remained unresolved, the complaint has been referred to me for review 
and final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Delay in releasing the charge  
Mr B asked Shawbrook to release its charge on their premises on 20 October 2020 after it 
had repaid its loan. This finally happened on 21 February 2022. On the face of it that does 
seem an unreasonably long time. So, Ive considered what happened in the course of those 
four months to decide whether the bank was responsible for any delay.   I agree with Shawbrook that against the background of Ns loan redemption they had certain 
regulatory obligations to perform in order to safeguard themselves and customers against 
financial crime. And to that end, I agree that by satisfying themselves as to where the funds 
came from to redeem Ns loan Shawbrook were properly carrying out their obligation.  I dont 
think it was unreasonable for the bank to ask Mr N for evidence to satisfy itself the funds it 
had used for the redemption of its loan came from a legitimate source. 
It is Shawbrooks case that they did so on the occasions noted above. That is to say in 
phone calls to Mr B on 29 October and 8 December 2021, followed by their written request 
on 17 January 2022. 
I have listened to the three phone calls Shawbrook referred to and have noted the following:
In the 29 October phone call to Mr B, the bank asked him to provide details of who 
hed refinanced with. So, there was no request for confirmation and/or evidence of 
the source of the funds. Mr B was concerned about his treatment by the bank and he 
explained his unhappiness to the employee. Mr N did not provide any evidence to 
show the source of the redemption funds because during the call he was not asked 
to do so. 
The bank twice called Mr B again on 8 December. In the first of the calls it was 
evident the information the bank wanted from Mr B was evidence to prove the source 
of the funds. And the bank employee tried repeatedly to explain that to Mr B. But it 
was also evident that Mr B had difficulty hearing and understanding what was being 
asked of him. And on a number of occasions he asked the bank employee to repeat 
what shed said. After a number of attempts it did seem Mr B understood the request. 
But he went on to explain that hed become suspicious whether he was dealing with 
Shawbrook and was uncomfortable providing information over the phone. He asked 
the employee to put the banks request in writing, in an e-mail and promised hed 
respond.   
The bank called back immediately  its second call - to ask for details of Mr Bs e-
mail address. The bank employee explained she would get the banks head office to 
send Mr B an email so that he could then send the bank proof of the source of funds. 
Ive already noted the actual request that followed afterwards when Shawbrook wrote 
to Mr B on 8 December 2021. 
Despite the contents of the calls on 8 December, I think having asked the bank to put 
the request in writing it was not unreasonable to expect the bank to set out its 
request clearly and accurately. The bank needed evidence to prove the source of the 
funds. But in its e-mail, thats not what was asked of Mr B. Shawbrook asked him for 
confirmation of the source of the funds. That was poor service and not least given the 
struggles Mr B had understanding the nature of the information the bank wanted from 
him when they spoke on 8 December 2021. Mr N responded accurately to what was 
asked of him and I dont think he was at fault in that regard. 
Furthermore, after it received Mr Bs e-mail response, the bank didnt revert to him to 
correct the error it made in its written request as reasonably it should have done as 
soon as it received that response. It was some six weeks later on 17 January 2022 that the bank did so. In other words, when accurately it requested the information 
from Mr B that it needed all along. 
So, Im persuaded Shawbrook made an error in their phone calls of 29 October 2021 
and correspondence to N on 8 December 2021. The December error was not put 
right for around 6 weeks. In the circumstances that was an unreasonable delay which 
impacted the timeliness of the release of Shawbrooks charge. 
Mr A has explained that he was caused significant stress by what had happened. But 
I cannot compensate him personally for that, bearing in mind this is a complaint by N 
the limited company which cannot suffer stress.  
However, I am satisfied the banks delay caused inconvenience to N as explained by 
the investigator. Furthermore, Mr B also had to correct the banks incorrect assertion 
to its solicitors that it had refused to provide evidence to prove the source of the 
redemption funds. 
Putting things right
 I find that Shawbrook should pay N compensation for the inconvenience they caused to N.  
Ive thought carefully about the facts of this case and the extent of the inconvenience I 
consider N suffered. Having done so I am satisfied that £150 is reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.  
My final decision
 My final decision is I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, and for the reasons I 
have already given above I require Shawbrook Bank Plc to pay N £150 for inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman