DRN-4069561
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund the money 
she lost after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise what happened in brief.
In 2018, Mrs H was dealing with a legal issue, and a friend recommended a person who 
claimed to be a lawyer. They later turned out to be a scammer. Mrs H decided not to pursue 
the legal issue, but the scammer persuaded her to invest in their company. They said they 
were working on a large infrastructure project in Africa, and promised a 30% return to be 
paid the following year. Mrs H paid them £15,000 by bank transfer.
In 2019, the returns never arrived and the scammer cut contact. Mrs H reported the scam to 
Halifax, who tried to recover the money from the receiving bank, but were unable to.
Mrs Hs representatives argue Halifax should have blocked the payment and intervened. 
Halifax argue they didnt have sufficient reason to.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
found that while the payment was large, it wasnt so out of character that theyd expect 
Halifax to have intervened. And they thought Halifax had made sufficient efforts to try to 
recover the money. Mrs Hs representatives asked for an ombudsman to look at things 
afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs H fell victim to a scam, and so she has my sympathy. I appreciate this 
cant have been an easy time for her, and I appreciate why she feels that her money should 
be returned. Its worth keeping in mind that its the scammer whos primarily responsible for 
what happened, and who really owes Mrs H her money back. But I can only consider what 
Halifax did. Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, 
I cant fairly hold Halifax liable for Mrs Hs loss. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mrs H authorised the payment. So although she didnt intend the 
money to go to a scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations she is liable for the 
loss in the first instance. And broadly speaking, Halifax had an obligation to follow her 
instructions  the starting position in law is that banks are expected to process payments 
that a customer authorises them to make. 
Halifax should have been on the lookout for payments which could be the result of fraud or 
scams, to help prevent them. But I also accept that a balance must be struck between 
identifying and responding to potentially fraudulent payments, and ensuring theres minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments. Ive thought carefully about whether Halifax should have 
done more in Mrs Hs case.
However, I dont think the payment involved was so unusual or out of character that Halifax 
needed to intervene. While it was certainly a large payment, it was funded by a withdrawal 
from Mrs Hs savings, and its not unusual for customers to occasionally make very large 
payments using their savings  indeed, thats a rather usual way to use savings. The 
payment did not drain Mrs Hs current account  the remaining balance was the same as 
before this incident  nor her savings account, which still had a healthy balance afterwards. 
Mrs H had made a number of sizeable bank transfers in the months before this incident, so 
while this payment was her largest Id not consider it to be so out of character for her that Id 
expect Halifax to intervene. Further, this payment was a one-off rather than a series of rapid 
ones, it went to a UK account, and it was authorised by the genuine customer. Overall, Im 
afraid I dont see that Halifax had sufficient reasons to intervene in this particular instance.
Next, Ive considered what Halifax did to try to recover Mrs Hs money after she told them 
about the scam. Id expect Halifax to notify the receiving bank immediately after being told 
about the potential fraud. I can see they did so here, and they also chased the receiving 
bank. Unfortunately, Mrs H only reported the scam to Halifax over a year after paying the 
money. And its a common tactic for scammers to move on the money as quickly as 
possible, before the victim realises what happened. So it was exceptionally unlikely that 
Halifax could get her money back by that point. And here, they were unable to. I think Halifax 
did what Id expect them to do in this situation.
So while Im very sorry to hear about what happened to Mrs H, I dont think Halifax should be 
held responsible for her loss. And so I cant fairly tell Halifax to refund Mrs Hs money in this 
case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman