DRN-3992255
The complaint
Mr P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc is responsible for poor service in connection with 
his claim under a motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car made by a premium-brand 
manufacturer in 2011. 
The car was a cabriolet or convertible. One of its features was that along the top of the 
windscreen was a spoiler or wind deflector, to reduce buffeting and noise when the car was 
being driven with the roof open. 
In the centre console between the front seats was a hinged cover over the switches or 
buttons to open or close the roof, to open or close all the windows at once, and to deploy or 
retract the wind deflector.
In the centre console in front of the hinged cover was a rotary controller for the multi-media 
infotainment system.
Mr P acquired the car in 2019.
For the year from August 2021, Mr P had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with 
AXA.
Unfortunately, in late December 2021, Mr P reported that a third party had hit and damaged 
the rear of the car on a motorway. AXA arranged for the car to go in to one of its approved 
repairers. AXA provided Mr P with a hire car.
The repairer did some repairs. In April 2022, the repairer told Mr P that the spoiler wouldnt 
retract. The repairer sent the car to a garage franchised by the manufacturer.
Mr P complained to AXA that the spoiler had been working before the car went to the 
repairer, so AXA  should repair it. He also complained about difficulty in communicating with 
AXA.
By late May 2022, AXA had got an engineer to inspect and report on the car.
Mr P had to give the hire car back. In about June 2022, the repairer returned the car without 
fixing the issue with the spoiler. Mr P complained to AXA that the rotary controller also 
wasnt working.
By a final response dated August 2022, AXA upheld Mr Ps complaint about communication 
and said it was sending a cheque for £225.00 compensation. AXA didnt uphold the 
complaint about the wind deflector (and didnt mention the complaint about the rotary 
controller).
Mr P asked us to investigate.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She said that 
without evidence the fault was due to wear and tear, she wasnt satisfied it wasnt caused 
while in the care of the authorised repairer. She recommended that AXA should arrange or 
cover the costs of repair to the wind deflector and rotary controller.
The investigator thought that £225.00 compensation offered for poor service and delays was 
reasonable.
Mr P accepted the investigators opinion. He added that the constant opening and closing of 
the wind deflector has in his opinion made a considerable impact on the performance and 
life span of the cars battery, which he has had to replace.
AXA disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It says, in summary, that:
Mr P hadnt previously raised battery issues.
The engineer said there was a fault with a small electronic sensor for the spoiler. No 
mechanic would try to dismantle a small sensor and diagnose its fault.
The franchised garage said this was a common fault with these vehicles. 
Theres no evidence that the repairer damaged the spoiler.
The engineer did not interfere with or damage the controller.
The issues with the spoiler and the rotary controller were wear and tear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
General
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. One of those rules has the effect that  before we may investigate a 
complaint  the consumer must first have made that complaint to the regulated firm and 
waited for up to eight weeks for a final response.
Battery
Mr P hadnt made a complaint about the battery at the time of the final response in August 
2022. He only made that complaint, through us, in late December 2022. 
AXA has said that it will respond separately to that complaint. I consider that, under the 
rules, I cant deal with that complaint in this decision.
Shortcomings in Communication
In my view, the accident and the need to make a claim were bound to cause some distress 
and inconvenience to Mr P.However, I accept his statements that AXA didnt communicate as well as it shouldve done. 
I accept that the impact on Mr P was that he had to spend time and endure frustration in 
chasing for updates. 
That said, AXA paid £225.00 compensation for that. Im satisfied that was as much as I 
wouldve directed if AXA hadnt made such payment. And Mr P accepted the investigators 
opinion. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct AXA to pay any more compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
Spoiler
Mr P has provided a photograph of the car with the spoiler retracted after the accident. In 
any event I accept his statement that there was no fault with the spoiler before the accident 
or immediately afterwards before the car went to the approved repairer.
I accept that the faut arose while the car was with the approved repairer. That wouldnt be 
enough to persuade me that it was fair and reasonable to direct AXA to fix that fault. I say 
that because its possible for a part to fail without any act or omission of the repairer.
However, the engineers report included the following:
An ECU Interrogation may ascertain the date or mileage that the fault occurred, 
however we can not guarantee this due to a age of the vehicle and possible 
electronic system checks and resets having been carried out during and after the 
repairs were completed.
From that, and from the absence of evidence from the electronic control unit, I find it more 
likely than not that the repairer had carried out electronic system checks and resets. And I 
find it more likely than not that it was such checks and resets that caused the failure of the 
spoiler control.
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct AXA to repair the spoiler control or (if it prefers) to 
reimburse Mr P for the cost of such repair.
Rotary Controller
I accept the engineers statement that he didnt work on or damage the rotary controller. But 
his recent statement included the following:
I would draw to your attention that once the fault with the air deflector was may 
made apparent to [the repairer] they may have worked within the area of the front 
spoiler control switch to investigate the fault, likewise [the franchised garage] may 
have done the same.
Also, nobody had reported an issue with the rotary controller until after the car had been to 
the franchised garage and the repairer had returned it to Mr P. So I find it more likely than 
not that the repairer or the franchised garage damaged the rotary controller in an 
unsuccessful attempt to fix the spoiler control. 
I hold AXA responsible for the acts of the repairer and the franchised garage. So I find it fair 
and reasonable to direct AXA to repair the rotary controller or (if it prefers) to reimburse Mr P 
for the cost of such repair. Putting things right
As Ive said, I find it fair and reasonable to direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to repair the spoiler 
control and the rotary controller or (if it prefers) to reimburse Mr P for the cost of such 
repairs. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to repair the spoiler control and the rotary controller or (if it 
prefers) to reimburse Mr P for the cost of such repairs. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman