DRN-3502669
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Chris Binns Wealth Management Ltd, trading as Model Wealth
Management (MWM), gave advice in connection with her employers pension scheme which
led her to opt out and transfer the value of those benefits to a new pension arrangement.
Mrs B says shes lost out financially as a result of having opted out and transferred.
What happened
Ive considered Mrs Bs complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 18 February 
2022 and a second provisional decision on 20 April 2022. Ive recapped here what I said in 
my second provisional decision about the background leading up to Mrs Bs complaint; our 
investigation; my provisional findings (set out in my provisional decision dated 18 February 
2022); the responses to that provisional decision; and what Id further provisionally decided 
and why.  
Mrs B had worked for her employer since 1990 and was a member of its final salary
occupational pension scheme (OPS). She met with MWMs adviser in early 2018 following a
recommendation from colleagues. But things were put on hold due to, amongst other things,
Mrs Bs ill health. She met with MWM again in September 2018. Mrs B would turn 54 that
month. Due to a change in her family circumstances and continued poor health, Mrs B was
considering retiring early.
What was said isnt agreed. According to Mrs B, MWMs adviser recommended that she
transfer out of the OPS. Theres no written recommendation but Mrs B says MWMs adviser
said transferring was a no brainer. MWMs adviser denies saying that or anything else
which might be construed as advice to transfer. Mrs B says she understood MWMs adviser
would be making a formal recommendation and that a third party would undertake
compliance checks. MWM says it introduced Mrs B to a separate business (who Ill call Firm
B) for pension transfer advice. But, as referred to below, MWM accepts there was confusion.
Mrs B says MWMs adviser told her shed need to put in writing her reasons for wanting to
transfer. Ive seen Mrs Bs email of 6 September 2018 to MWM. She set out what she was
thinking of writing about why she wanted to transfer out of the OPS. In summary, Mrs B
referred to flexibility, being able to retire early and the fact that she wasnt in good health,
better death benefits and to the financial qualifications she held for pensions and
investments. She asked MWMs adviser to say if she needed to say less or more.
Ive also seen MWMs advisers email in response, saying it was exactly the kind of
personalised reasons we (and the FCA) like to see and all perfectly rational thoughts too.
He went on to suggest that Mrs B beef up the reasons why she wanted a higher income in
the early years  for example, for extra holidays, changing her car, home improvements, and
the likely costs. And say why death benefits were important and whod benefit. Mrs B added
in details about her medical condition and how it affected her; her travel plans; her wish to
buy a motor home (at a cost of £30,000 to £35,000); whod benefit from her pension fund on
death and her husbands views about the loss of a spouses pension if Mrs B died first.
Mrs B said she tried, without success, to get a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from
the OPS. She emailed MWMs adviser on 9 October 2018. He replied the same day, saying
she had to become a deferred member of the OPS to request a CETV. He attached a form
which Mrs B needed to complete if she wanted to opt out and explained that it should be
returned to the OPS with a request that a CETV be sent. He said the CETV would be
guaranteed for three months and all the paperwork could be completed and sent off. He
added that there was no huge pressure to get this done before the 22nd. If after that meeting
you still want to leave the scheme then as long as you are relatively swift in your actions
theres no reason to suggest you wont get it back to them before the month is out. That was
a reference to what the adviser had said earlier in his email about becoming a deferred
member on the last day of the month in which the opt out form was received by the OPS.
Mrs B met with the adviser on 22 October 2018. I think thered been earlier meetings too.
Ive seen that the leavers form was signed by Mrs B on 22 October 2018. She became a
deferred member of the OPS on 30 November 2018. She was given a CETV of
£441,441.13, guaranteed for three months, on 18 December 2018.
Mrs Bs first contact with Firm B was in early January 2019. Firm B emailed her saying
MWMs adviser had asked it to review her OPS. Firm B said it would normally call to
discuss why Mrs B had opted out of the OPS but it understood she was undergoing surgery
that day (which was the case). Firm B asked Mrs B to confirm that the decision to opt out
was hers and shed not had advice to do so. Firm B quoted what Mrs B had said about why
she wanted to transfer  as Mrs B had set out in her email of 6 September 2018 and as
amended after MWMs advisers input. Mrs B emailed Firm B on 5 January 2019. Amongst
other things she said: This is my decision and I didnt receive any advice in relation to my
decision to opt out. I have decided to opt out of my own volition and would now like to seek
advice in relation to the transfer of my deferred [OPS].
Firm B issued a pension transfer report on 11 January 2019. Mrs B then realised the advice
to transfer was being provided by Firm B and not, as shed understood, MWM. Mrs B
complained to MWM.
MWM responded to Mrs Bs complaint and upheld it. MWMs adviser said:
The service you have received throughout the latter part of the advice process has
fallen massively short of the high expectations I set myself and there really is no
excuse
MWMs ability to introduce clients to [Firm B] was only agreed in late October 2018
After reviewing the information kindly supplied by yourself and looking at back over
the timeline and correspondence, we fully uphold your complaint.
MWM offered Mrs B £1,000 for stress and inconvenience and £5,457 to cover the cost of the
advice provided by a new firm to complete the transfer. Mrs B accepted that offer. She then
consulted another firm (who Ill call Firm C) and, following advice from Firm C, she
completed a transfer of her deferred OPS benefits.
Our investigation
Mrs B later reflected on what had happened and referred her complaint to us. She said shed
become concerned that transferring her OPS benefits hadnt been a good idea. She said
shed been told by MWMs adviser that transferring was a no brainer. She trusted him. But,
without telling her, he outsourced her business to Firm B. Shed seen a new adviser as soon
as possible after shed realised what had happened as the CETV was by then only valid for
less than two months. That adviser said hed have advised her to stay in the OPS. She said
she wouldnt have gone ahead with the transfer but for MWMs advisers input. She was
uncertain if she could complain as shed accepted the offer for outsourcing her to Firm B.We contacted MWM about Mrs Bs complaint. MWMs adviser said at no time had he told
Mrs B that it was a no brainer to do the transfer. He didnt use that sort of language and he
hadnt advised Mrs B to transfer. Advice had been given by Firm B and Mrs B had then
taken advice from another firm. In her email of 5 January 2019 she clearly stated shed
made the decision (to leave the OPS) herself and without advice. If she later decided to
transfer out of the OPS that had nothing to do with MWM.
Her original complaint, which it had upheld, centred on the fact that MWMs adviser hadnt
provided the pension transfer advice and had introduced her to Firm B. Her new complaint
was that MWM had provided advice to her in respect of the pension transfer, which was the
exact opposite of what shed complained about initially. What she was alleging directly
contradicted her original complaint and what shed said in her email to Firm B.
 
Mrs B made some further comments. She said that when she first contacted MWM she had
quite severe health problems and family issues too. The thought of being able to retire early
was very appealing. And the adviser mentioned recent changes to the OPS which meant
less generous early retirement terms. He said transfers were under scrutiny and hed
introduced a sense check with a third party compliance team. He told her the sort of things to
write and then to beef it up. He said the compliance team were happy with the transfer
which was his view too. Mrs B said that felt like advice to transfer.
The adviser said shed need to come out of the OPS. She asked if she could have the
transfer recommendation report first but was told shed need to leave the OPS before any
report could be produced. A meeting was arranged for 22 October 2018. Shed messaged
the OPS administrators about the process for becoming a deferred member but she hadnt
heard back. The adviser then sent her the leavers form himself. At the meeting on 22
October 2018 he reiterated that transferring was the right thing to do. The OPS
administrators confirmed on 19 December 2018 that she was a deferred member. When she
chased up the recommendation report the following day, the adviser said it would come from
the compliance team.
She was then due to have another trial procedure to try to reduce her pain. On the day of the
operation (3 January 2019) she received Firm Bs email. She was in pain, on medication and
replied to confirm it was her decision to opt out. She now doesnt think she was in any fit
state to be responding to important emails. If shed had a conversation with Firm B, shed
have made it clear that her decision was based on what MWMs adviser had said.
When she received the report on 11 January 2019 she realised that Firm B was going to do
the transfer and not MWMs adviser. She was unhappy as she hadnt requested advice from
Firm B. When she contacted MWMs adviser he told her hed reached capacity as to the
number of clients he could service properly. But shed only transferred because hed agreed
to look after her as part of his small client list. He said it was two months before the CETV
expired which was plenty of time to find another adviser and complete the transfer. By the
time he sent his final response letter, the trial procedure hadnt been successful. She was in
pain and depressed and just accepted the offer. But, over the next few months she reviewed
things and was angry that MWMs adviser had led her to becoming a deferred member with
promises about a bespoke service.
Our investigator issued his view on 17 July 2020. He said the issue to determine was if
MWM did give advice and, if so, did it persuade Mrs B to transfer her pension. He said that
although Mrs Bs original complaint centred more on the fact that she was unaware MWM
was only acting as an introducer, we could, under our inquisitorial remit, consider the
wider complaint about the advice MWM had allegedly provided.
In summary he said MWM hadnt given Mrs B regulated advice to transfer  advice wasgiven by another firm who Mrs B had approached later to complete the transfer. MWM had
referred to Firm B as its compliance team. That was wrong and misleading. MWM hadnt
made it clear that Firm B was going to provide the advice. And MWM had told Mrs B it was a
good idea to transfer, that she needed to become a deferred member to get a CETV and
had then misled her about which business was making the recommendation before shed
then stopped the transfer process and complained to MWM.
But the investigator thought the £1,000 MWM had paid for the trouble and upset Mrs B had
been caused plus covering the cost of further advice was a fair and reasonable resolution.
Although thered been failings on MWMs part, after its final response was issued on 14
February 2019 Mrs B still had options. As a deferred member, she was still entitled to
receive a final salary pension based on the service shed already accrued. And she still
couldve applied for early ill heath retirement. She had no need to transfer out but she chose
to do so despite a new adviser confirming all the options available to her. The investigator
acknowledged that it had been a stressful time for Mrs B, particularly taking into
account her health and other issues. But the resolution MWM had offered, which included
paying for new advice, enabled Mrs B to make an informed decision based on independent
advice, whether to transfer.
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators view. She said she wouldnt have become a deferred
member had MWMs adviser not advised her that it was the right and sensible thing to do in
her circumstances  she was ill and shed be able to afford to retire early with the life
changing sum offered by the OPS. Had she not spoken to MWMs adviser shed have
remained in the OPS. The redress offered wasnt enough as MWMs advisers impact was
far bigger than just misleading her about who was going to do the transfer.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view. He said MWMs adviser hadnt
recommended the transfer. Although Mrs Bs conversations with him seemed to confirm he
thought she should transfer, he was acting as an introducer to another firm. Hed told Mrs B
to become a deferred member and had facilitated a transfer out of the OPS. But Mrs B
couldve remained a deferred member and kept the benefits shed accrued, even though
shed lost the option to make further contributions. It was up to the new adviser to look at
everything and make an appropriate recommendation. He couldve advised Mrs B to remain
in the OPS, see if she could rejoin or take early retirement on ill health grounds.
Because agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to me. I issued a
provisional decision on 18 February 2022. Ive summarised below my provisional findings.
My provisional findings
I acknowledged that what had happened wasnt agreed. In particular whether MWMs
adviser had told Mrs B she should transfer out of the OPS so she could access her pension
fund and retire early and if hed told her she needed to opt out of the OPS to get a CETV 
the adviser denies telling Mrs B she should transfer and says opting out was Mrs Bs own
decision. I explained that I have to come to my conclusions on the basis of such evidence as
Ive seen, including what the parties say about what happened. But, where the evidence is
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  in other words, what I think is most likely to have happened in the light of all
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
If, as Mrs B says, MWMs adviser said that transferring out of the OPS was a no brainer, I
thought that would amount to giving regulated advice (on the conversion or transfer of
(safeguarded) pension benefits. The Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) in the Financial
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook sets out examples (see PERG 12, Annex1) of what is
and what is not advising on the conversion or transfer of pension benefits. An initial triageconversation wont be advice. But a clear statement that Mrs B would be better off by
transferring out to a personal pension will be advice. Advice doesnt have to be in writing and
can be given orally. So even a somewhat informal expression of opinion will be advice 
even if that advice is later confirmed more formally and by a different firm who did have the
requisite permissions to advise on final salary pension transfers. Which I didnt think MWMs
adviser did. But thats a regulatory matter and doesnt mean that whatever the adviser said
couldnt be regulated advice.
I went on to say that, from what Id seen, MWMs adviser did advise Mrs B that she should
transfer out of the OPS. I think the email Mrs B sent to the adviser on 6 September 2018 and
the advisers reply supported what Mrs B had said. I didnt see why thered have been that
sort of exchange unless thered been a conversation about Mrs B transferring out of the OPS
and MWMs adviser had told her that shed need to give some fairly cogent reasons for
wanting to do that. I couldnt see shed have concluded on her own thats what she wanted
to do. The obvious inference was that the MWMs adviser told Mrs B she should transfer and
started to put things in place for that to happen.
I also thought what Mrs B had said about MWMs adviser saying shed need to leave the
OPS first and then request a CETV was borne out by the email exchange on 9 October 2018
and the fact that the adviser supplied the form Mrs B needed to complete to opt out of the
OPS. That form was signed on 22 October 2018, the date of Mrs Bs meeting with MWMs
adviser. That would suggest the form had been completed at the meeting and with the
advisers help. I noted that the adviser had said, in his email, that Mrs B didnt need to
complete the form before the meeting and if, after the meeting, she still wanted to leave the
OPS, shed be able to get the form in before the end of the month. I thought that indicated
that it would be discussed at the meeting. I couldnt see that Mrs B had decided on her own
to opt out of the OPS.
I acknowledged that Mrs B did say in her email that she hadnt been advised in connection
with opting out and it had been her own decision to do that. But I thought shed have known
she needed to be careful what she said and that she wouldnt have wanted anything to
jeopardise the transfer.
I considered Mrs Bs financial qualifications but I thought pensions was a specialist area and
outside Mrs Bs knowledge and experience. I didnt think shed have made her own decision
and that shed relied on MWMs adviser.
I said I was satisfied MWMs adviser had advised Mrs B to opt out so that she could get a
CETV and then transfer out of the OPS into a personal pension arrangement. I went on to
explain why I considered that advice was unsuitable. Thats still my view for the reasons I
gave which Ive repeated here.
As a member of a final salary scheme Mrs Bs benefits werent dependent on investment
returns but on her pensionable service and salary and were in effect guaranteed. Mrs B
wasnt leaving her employment but her future service with her employer, once shed opted
out, wouldnt be pensionable and so she wouldnt accrue any further benefits in the OPS.
That meant she lost out on the benefits shed have accrued between when she opted out
and when she left her employment, whether that was on reaching the OPS normal
retirement age (which I think was 62 in Mrs Bs case) or earlier. I thought Mrs B was still
employed although I understand she is currently on long term sick leave. I mentioned that
might have impacted on her benefits if shed have remained in the OPS. Depending on the
OPS rules and if Mrs B has continued to be paid, her service might have ceased to be
pensionable.
That aside, MWMs adviser was aware of Mrs Bs long standing health problems. And thatshe wanted to retire early (or that she might be forced to give up work because of poor
health). Mrs B had said shes been told, if shed remained an active member of the OPS,
shed have been able to seek early retirement on ill health grounds. I think MWMs adviser
shouldve been aware that might be a viable option for Mrs B. She shed said he was aware
but told her the terms had changed and were less generous. That might have been true. But
that doesnt mean that option could be ruled out.
Early retirement on ill health grounds will be subject to certain criteria and is usually at the
trustees discretion. So it wasnt certain that Mrs B wouldve been granted ill heath early
retirement. And I wasnt sure when she might have retired or what the difference in money
terms (if any) wouldve been between what shed have got if the trustees did consent to ill
health early retirement and what shed have been entitled to if shed taken early retirement
but not on ill health grounds. But, by opting out, she lost the opportunity to apply for ill health
early retirement. I thought that was a reason in itself for MWMs adviser not to advise Mrs B
to opt out.
When MWMs adviser told Mrs B that she needed to opt out in order to get a CETV and then
transfer, he didnt know what CETV Mrs B would be offered. He couldnt know if it
represented good value for money and if it would allow Mrs B to retire earlier than she might
have been able to, had she remained a member of the OPS. And, as he wasnt a pension
transfer specialist, he couldnt have advised Mrs B about whether she should transfer in any
event. I didnt see that she shouldve been advised to opt out. The documentation she was
given by the OPS administrators made it clear that, if she did opt out, reinstatement wouldnt
be possible. So there was no going back from a decision to opt out.
I thought Mrs B shouldve been advised to remain a member of the OPS until she wanted to
stop working (or was forced to do so because of her health) and needed to start taking her
pension benefits. She could then have considered all her options  early retirement whether
on ill health grounds or not or getting a CETV with a view to transferring away to a personal
pension arrangement. I thought it wouldve been possible for an adviser to get an indicative
CETV from the OPS so that Mrs Bs options couldve been considered properly and advice
given before she made any final decision.
Mrs B might say that opting out was the root cause of the damage thats been done  she
opted out so that she could then transfer  and so MWM is responsible for any and all losses
shes sustained in opting out of the OPS and subsequently transferring her deferred benefits
to a personal pension arrangement. But I thought opting out of the OPS and then
transferring were two separate and distinct events. Opting out meant that Mrs B became a
deferred member of the OPS. As she was no longer an active member, she wouldnt accrue
further service and benefits. But the benefits shed accrued up to the date she opted out
remained in the OPS and would be revalued in deferment  meaning that increases would
apply between when Mrs B opted out and when she took her benefits from the OPS. Mrs B,
although shed become a deferred member, didnt have to go on to take the CETV shed
been given and transfer out of the OPS.
Mrs B had said she took further advice and that adviser said he wouldnt have advised her to
opt out of the OPS. It was too late by then to change that  as Ive said, reinstatement wasnt
possible. So any new adviser wouldnt have been able to undo the fact that shed already
opted out. Advice as to whether Mrs B should transfer out would focus on the benefits and
options available to her as a deferred member of the OPS and those the new personal
pension arrangement was likely to provide. Theres a presumption (see Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS) 19.1.6G) that transferring wont be suitable. A firm recommending a
transfer needs to show its in the clients best interests, taking into account, amongst other
things, the clients overall financial circumstances and their needs and objectives.If Mrs B had any concerns about whether she shouldve been advised to transfer instead of
remaining a deferred member, shed need to take that up with the firm that gave the advice
to transfer. My understanding is that wasnt Firm B but a new firm that Mrs B consulted (Firm
C). I noted all Mrs B had said about how upset she was and why she wanted everything to
be over and done with. But I still didnt think it would be fair to hold MWM responsible for the
consequences of advice given by a different firm and assuming that Mrs B acted on that
advice  I havent seen it and its possible that she transferred against advice. But MWM was
responsible for the losses Mrs B has sustained as a result of opting out when she did and
which meant Mrs B ceased accruing benefits in the OPS.
I also explained why I thought it was open to Mrs B to bring a further complaint. MWM had
already upheld a complaint made by Mrs B and offered redress, which Mrs B accepted.
MWM hadnt argued that Mrs B accepted its offer in full and final settlement and so she
shouldnt be able to bring a further complaint. But, for completeness, Id considered that
anyway.
Initially Mrs Bs concerns centred on the fact that MWMs adviser hadnt made it clear to her
that the transfer advice would be given by Firm B. Mrs B accepted MWMs offer to pay for
further advice and £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience shed suffered. I agreed with
the investigator that was fair enough, in so far as that complaint went. But Mrs Bs current
complaint was different. MWMs adviser seems to agree and says its the opposite of the
complaint she first made  that another firm was advising her instead of MWM, whereas
shes now complaining about advice she says MWM gave.
So it wasnt the case that Mrs B is revisiting a complaint which has been settled with MWM.
Shes making a further and different complaint. Part of which is that, on advice from MWMs
adviser, she opted out of the OPS. Shed already done that by the time Firm B got involved
so theres no suggestion that Firm B gave her any advice about that. Whereas, for the
reasons Ive explained, I think MWMs adviser was responsible for Mrs Bs decision to opt
out. But Ive taken into account that MWM paid Mrs B £1,000 for distress and inconvenience
and Im not making any further award for that in this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
MWM responded to my provisional decision initially on 2 March 2022. It said it fundamentally
disagreed with my provisional findings and wanted to appeal to a senior ombudsman.
MWMs main points were:
It was clear that Mrs B had provided additional information after 7 August 2020. The
investigator had emailed MWM then, saying Mrs B disagreed with his findings. He
attached some further information from Mrs B. He said shed be providing some
further comments, a copy of which would be provided. He added that he didnt think
her response would change his view. We hadnt shared Mrs Bs additional
comments. MWM hadnt had an opportunity to review or challenge what shed said.
We hadnt been impartial and wed failed to do what we said we would.
MWM asked for sight of all the additional correspondence wed received from Mrs B
since 17 July 2020 (the date of the investigators view) plus copies of any additional
questions wed raised or clarification wed sought. MWM asked us to confirm, based
on the additional correspondence wed received since 17 July 2020, which elements
of the extra information had led to the change in outcome.
Id said in my provisional decision that MWMs adviser had advised Mrs B to transfer
out of the OPS. MWM had said that it had always been made it clear that, although
when MWM met Mrs B she was an active member of the OPS, she later chose to
become a deferred herself. MWM had explained the process and said that her
objective for transferring would need to be documented and ideally should beverbatim as that would be used in the suitability report. Theres nothing in the email
exchange to suggest or confirm that the decision to opt out was on MWMs advice.
MWM suggested my independence was questionable as Mrs B had consistently
made it seem as though shed been preyed upon due to her illness and that she had
limited knowledge of investment and pensions, despite her qualifications and her job.
Her husband also has financial qualifications. He was present at all the meetings and
couldve guided Mrs B. Id ignored the email on record which confirmed it was her
own decision to opt out. Shed said she hadnt been in any fit state to respond to
important emails, but her email didnt read as if that was the case.
MWM sought confirmation that I wasnt holding it responsible for the transfer advice
and that my (provisional) decision was only in respect of the loss of active service
from the point she chose to opt out of the OPS.
We provided MWM with the copies of the more recent correspondence from Mrs B and we
apologised that wed omitted to supply it earlier. We also explained about our two stage
process and that an ombudsman may come to different conclusions to those reached by the
investigator.
MWM responded further. It said it wanted to demonstrate that Mrs Bs ability to be
considered for an ill heath pension was intact long after any dialogue between MWM and
Mrs B had ended. MWM isnt responsible for the fact that isnt now open to her. It was only
when she went ahead with the OPS transfer advice that that was no longer an option. MWM
also said that Mrs B had made her own decision to opt out of the OPS and without advice
from MWM. Ive summarised MWMs further comments:
Some points cant be contested as theyre documented in the investigators view. The
investigator had said Mrs B had employed the services of another adviser to
complete the transfer. And that MWM didnt provide regulated advice to transfer  the
transfer advice was provided by another regulated firm. The investigator had noted
that, as a deferred member, Mrs B was still entitled to a final salary pension based on
the service shed already accrued. And she could still have applied for early
retirement on ill health grounds. She had no need to transfer out but she chose to,
even though it seemed the new adviser had confirmed all the options open to her.
MWMs offer, to pay for new advice, enabled Mrs B to make an informed decision
based on independent advice whether to transfer out or not. That was important as
MWM hadnt given Mrs B the advice to transfer out. The central question was at what
stage did her options change irrevocably? Shed taken advice from Firm C and
decided to transfer out of the OPS at some stage after 5 January 2019. The final
decision making was between Mrs B and Firm C. It shouldve considered the
potential for ill health benefits from the OPS. No liability for the loss of a potential ill
health pension can rest with MWM and no redress for that can be imposed.
MWM also referred to the investigators email to Mrs B on 20 July 2020. Hed said
that MWM hadnt recommended the transfer and hed clarified his expectations of the
advice Mrs B shouldve received from the new adviser and who shouldve
investigated the early retirement options. Its entirely possible Mrs B couldve
obtained an ill health pension. The fact that the new adviser hadnt looked into that
wasnt MWMs responsibility.
MWM had fully accepted its shortcomings in providing an introduction to Firm B. And
paid Mrs B compensation to cover the cost of the pension transfer advice shed
received from an unrelated firm of her own choosing. MWM had also paid
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Mrs B had accepted what MWM had
offered. If, as she now suggests, her ill health was severe and she was unable to
make rational decisions, she couldve remained a deferred member of the OPS and
requested a new CETV at some future point.Mrs Bs husband has financial qualifications and he was present during all the
meetings. Hed have recognised the importance of the decisions Mrs B was making
and couldve advised her to take a step back and focus on her health. In any event,
MWM cant be held liable for Mrs Bs decision to act on pension transfer advice from
an unrelated third party business.
Mrs B had confirmed to Firm B that shed made her own decision to opt out of the
OPS and hadnt received advice to do so. Firm B had emailed Mrs B on 3 January
2019 setting out what shed said about why she wanted to opt out of the OPS. Mrs B
had replied two days later confirmed that the information Firm B had quoted was
correct. That clear and documented email exchange cant be dismissed. What Id
said about why Mrs B may have said what she did was conjecture. And at odds with
the explanation shed given herself  that she wasnt in any fit state to be replying to
important emails. Her email was chatty and conversational and doesnt read like its
from someone who wasnt in a fit state to be making a decision  in fact the opposite.
Mrs Bs last meeting and her correspondence with MWM was in late 2018. The
allegation, made some three years after Mrs Bs dealings with MWM had ended
(save in respect of emails in early 2019 about her original complaint) that MWM had
said no-one ever got ill health retirement and that you would have to be literally on
your deathbed to get it was unfounded. MWM sympathised with Mrs Bs health
problems but she was still able to pursue ill health options from the OPS long after
her communications with MWM had ceased. Firm C had facilitated the transfer from
the OPS which had removed the options shed had under the OPS.
Ultimately MWM thought there were three questions:
Did MWM provide pension transfer advice to Mrs B?
Did Mrs B receive advice to opt out of the OPS?
Could Mrs B have secured anil heath pension from the OPS?
There was documented confirmation from this service that MWM did not give Mrs B
the advice to transfer out. And an email exchange between Mrs B and a third party
advice business (Firm B) in which Mrs B confirmed, in her own words: This is my
decision and I didnt receive any advice in relation to my decision to opt out. I have
decided to opt out of my own volition and would now like to seek advice in relation to
the transfer of my deferred [OPS]. Firm C (not MWM) didnt appear to have
considered the ill health pension option from the OPS. Therefore there is no
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory evidence to make a decision upon, only fact
in written electronic format (in respect of the opt out) from Mrs B.
MWM reiterated that, despite saying we would, we hadnt shared Mrs Bs additional
comments before Id issued my provisional decision on 18 February 2022. And wed
given an extremely short deadline (11 March 2022) for comments. That was
compounded because we didnt provide the additional information until 3 March 2022
even though wed had it for at least three months. We hadnt responded to the
request, in view of the change in outcome, to highlight what new evidence had led to
that. And from what wed supplied, no further meaningful evidence had been
received. MWM suggested opinion had taken precedence over the facts, thered
been a lack of consistency and I wasnt acting as an independent, unbiased and
impartial referee. Instead Id taken the side of the consumer who, because of her
profession, knew exactly what to say to try to reverse the original decision.
At Mrs Bs request we shared what MWM had said. She commented further and well share
what she said with MWM. She strongly disputed that shed manipulated the situation or that
her work meant shed have known what to say to get the investigators view reversed. She
said shed only reiterated what shed said during the initial investigation of her complaint 
which boiled down to the fact that MWMs adviser had advised her to opt out of the OPS. In
summary, she said:MWMs adviser had continually told her it was a no brainer to transfer given the high
CETVs being paid. She referred to his email of 20 December 2018 which included
the following: We ask for the suitability letter to be sent to you directly from our
compliance team to you can clearly see that they have signed this off which hopefully
gives you even more comfort that its not just me saying its the right thing to do
 (Mrs Bs emphasis). And hed continually stressed he was keeping his client base
low so he could look after everyone individually and that hed use his skill and
knowledge to ensure the best possible return. Hed also sent her the opt out form.
The adviser had spoken about the FCAs focus on pension transfer business and that
any rationale had to be very strong. He told her the sort of thing to write and to beef
up what shed originally said. She also had to say the decision to transfer was her
own. But, as demonstrated by the email, her decision was based on his advice.
MWM hadnt given her a suitability letter. Firm B did. But the advice was clearly
based on discussions between her and MWMs adviser, not Firm B.
About the email exchange, the email from Firm B was taken from the wording shed
prepared for MWMs adviser after hed told her to beef up her reasons for wanting to
leave the OPS. Hed told her the type of things to say, given the FCAs scrutiny. Hed
already told her that she had to tell his compliance firm that it was her decision to opt
out of the OPS without advice. But realistically why would she have wanted to opt out
of a final salary OPS without advice?
Her job entails the review of mis sold investments such as stocks and shares ISAs.
She doesnt deal with pension complaints. She had to do the DipFA qualification for
her job. It included pensions but shed forgotten it as it she didnt use it in her job.
And it didnt change the fact that shed become deferred because of the advice given
and promises made by MWMs adviser. When shed said her job and qualification
gave her a greater understanding that most shed been referring to things like risk
and the fact that pension funds and investments can go down as well as up and that
falls in value wouldnt have been the advisers fault.
It was crucial to understand that her decision to opt out was based on the advice
shed been given by MWMs adviser. Shed told his compliance company (Firm B)
that shed made the decision to opt out without advice because MWMs adviser had
told her she had to say that so it would go through. The medications shed been on at
the time of her email exchange with Firm B had a negative effect on cognition. And
painkillers, can create a sense of calm and happiness.
Her answers to the three questions MWM had posed were as follows: MWMs
adviser verbally advised her both to transfer and to opt out of the OPS. If she hadnt
left the OPS (that is ceased to be an active member) and been granted ill health early
retirement, shed have got the pension benefits shed have received if shed worked
until she was 62. As a deferred member she could still have left due to ill health but
shed only have been paid her deferred benefits.
Mrs Bs husband also provided a statement. Again well share what he said. But weve
redacted part of what he told us as its personal information about his own health. In
summary, he recalled MWMs adviser coming to see Mrs B at home to give her advice about
transferring her OPS pension. The adviser did talk through some of the pros and cons of
transferring. But Mr B says he made a big deal about how much the OPS was paying to
people to come out and said (several times) that it was a no brainer to transfer as those
kinds of figures wouldnt be offered forever. Mrs B had brought up the subject of ill health
retirement but the adviser had indicated that it was impossible to get. Hed strongly advised
Mrs B to become deferred and to do it quickly if she wanted to secure a large pay out.
What Ive further provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments again to decide whats fair andreasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry we omitted to share, as wed promised, Mrs Bs further comments with MWM.
Weve done that now. And I note what MWM has said about being given insufficient time to
comment fully on my provisional decision and the additional information from Mrs B. To
rectify that, Im issuing this further provisional decision with four weeks for comment.
MWM has asked for confirmation as to which parts of the additional information Mrs B has
supplied since the investigator issued his view (not upholding Mrs Bs complaint) led to me
reaching a different outcome. But that isnt quite how it works. We have a two stage process.
If a complaint cant be resolved by the investigator and its referred to an ombudsman, they
will consider the complaint afresh. The ombudsman isnt bound by what the investigator
said. We aim for consistency and the ombudsman will often agree with the views expressed
by the investigator. But the ombudsman may reach a different outcome based on the same
evidence. That may be because the ombudsman attaches different weight to particular
evidence. And the ombudsmans findings of fact (except to the extent that the facts arent in
dispute) may be different too.
So, although MWM has pointed to conclusions reached by the investigator, Im not bound by
those. I explained in my provisional decision the views Id reached and my reasons with
reference to the evidence Id relied on. And Im issuing this provisional decision to deal with
the points MWM has raised and to clarify my findings and exactly what I think MWM is
responsible for.
That said, I think there was perhaps more agreement between me and the investigator than
MWM suggests. It seems the investigator accepted that MWM had told Mrs B it was a good
idea to transfer and that she needed to become a deferred member of the OPS (and which
the adviser facilitated). The investigator thought what MWMs adviser had said didnt amount
to regulated advice. But I think, for the reasons Ive explained, that it did. Formal
documented advice to transfer may have been given later by another business (Firm C). But,
if MWMs adviser had said that transferring out of the OPS was a no brainer so that Mrs B
could transfer to a personal pension arrangement, I think that would amount to regulated
advice.
I also agree with the investigator that, as a deferred member, Mrs B retained her entitlement
to preserved benefits in the OPS, based on the service shed accrued up to when shed
opted out. And that, after shed opted out and had become a deferred member, she couldve
applied for ill health early retirement or (once she reached age 55) early payment of her
benefits from the OPS. I dont know if shed have qualified for ill health early retirement and,
if so, what shed have been entitled to or what shed have been paid if shed taken her
benefits at age 55. That would depend on the OPS rules. They would set out the qualifying
criteria for ill health early retirement (and which might be subject to consent from the OPS
trustees) and the early retirement factors which would apply if Mrs B took her benefits before
the OPS normal retirement age (which I said I thought was 62). Mrs B lost those options
because she transferred out of the OPS, following advice from Firm C.
But I also thought that Mrs Bs position had changed (and been prejudiced) as a result of her
dealings with MWM  shed opted out of the OPS so that she could get a CETV and then
transfer out into a personal pension. I thought MWMs adviser had advised Mrs B to opt out
of the OPS. I didnt think, for the reasons I gave, that the advice to opt out was suitable for
Mrs B. That remains my view.
As I said, I didnt think MWM was responsible for all the losses Mrs B had sustained in opting
out and then subsequently transferring. I saw opting out and transferring as two separate
and distinct events. I also said, if Mrs B had any concerns about the advice to transfer out,shed need to take that up with Firm C. But, by the time Mrs B sought advice from Firm C,
the fact that shed opted out couldnt be undone  reinstatement wasnt possible. So, in my
view, Mrs Bs position had been altered to her detriment as a result of MWMs advisers
involvement and the unsuitable advice hed given Mrs B  to opt out of the OPS. The redress
I suggested was aimed at redressing the losses relating to the opting out and that Mrs B lost
the opportunity to accrue further benefits in the OPS. I said the calculation should assume
that just the opted out period of service remained in place and compare that with a nil value
for any replacement personal pension.
My understanding is that the 17/9 guidance includes standard assumptions as to how long
an OPS members service wouldve continued but for the opting out. Those assumptions
may or may not be appropriate, hence I indicated that considerations as to when Mrs Bs
service would end due to her health and/or unreduced early retirement might need to be
taken into account when the calculation is actually undertaken. Wed expect a professional
firm of actuaries experienced in carrying out this type of calculation to be instructed and who
would be familiar with the assumptions that apply.
MWM also says that it fully accepted its shortcomings in providing an introduction to Firm B
and paid redress to Mrs B  the initial advice fee she was to be charged by a third party
advice firm of her own choosing. I dont disagree that MWM paid for Mrs B to take new
independent advice  and she instructed Firm C. MWM also paid a generous sum for
distress and inconvenience. As Ive explained, Im not saying that MWM is responsible for
Mrs Bs decision to transfer her deferred benefits and for any losses shes suffered in
consequence of doing that. But MWM is responsible for Mrs B opting out so she could get a
CETV and then transfer to a personal pension arrangement. So MWM is responsible for
losses flowing from the opting out.
I also note all MWM says about why Mrs B couldve remained a deferred member of the
OPS, especially if, at the time, her heath was too poor to enable her to make proper
decisions. And that Mrs Bs husband (who also has financial qualifications) shouldve
recognised the importance of the decisions Mrs B was making and, if hed seen Mrs B
wasnt in a fit state to be dealing with such matters, ensured she stepped back. MWM says it
cant be held liable for Mrs Bs decision to act on advice from a totally unrelated third party
advice firm. Or liable for redress arising from the same transfer advice. But, as Ive
explained, Im not saying MWM is responsible for that. But I think MWM is liable for losses
arising because Mrs B opted out when she did and which was long before shed had any
contact with Firm C (or indeed Firm B).
I say that because, and despite all MWM has said, I maintain that MWMs adviser was
instrumental in Mrs Bs decision to opt out. On the one hand we have Mrs Bs email to Firm
B on 3 January 2019 which contains an apparently clear statement that she hadnt had any
advice to opt out and the decision had been hers. But, on the other hand, theres the email
exchange on 6 September 2018. That was before any involvement by any other firm and
before Mrs B, at a meeting with MWMs adviser, signed the leavers form (provided by
MWMs adviser) and which was then submitted to the OPS.
I think the email exchange is contemporaneous evidence which demonstrates MWMs
adviser was involved in Mrs Bs decision making and in particular her decision to opt out of
the OPS. Regardless of what Mrs B later told Firm B (and whether that was due to her being
unwell, in pain and/or on medication or for some other reason) I think the email exchange
provides clear evidence in support of what Mrs B has said (and which has been corroborated
by her husband) about having been advised by MWMs adviser to opt out so she could get a
CETV and then transfer out of the OPS. Despite what Mrs B later told Firm B, I accept that
she didnt decide, on her own, to opt out on her own. I think she opted out, based on what
MWMs adviser told her she should do. In my view, but for MWMs advisers input, Mrs Bwouldnt have opted out of the OPS.
I think what Mrs B says about her understanding that MWMs adviser would be formalising
his advice, and how she reacted when she found out that Firm B would be advising her
instead, is also consistent with what Mrs B says happened. If she was expecting MWMs
adviser to put in writing what hed already told her she should do, I can see that shed have
been confused and upset when she realised that another firm, and not MWM, had become
involved and would in fact be advising her.
Mrs B has some financial qualifications. As does her husband. Ive taken that into account.
But final salary OPS transfers require specialist advice. Mrs B was an ordinary retail client. It
was up to MWM to give her suitable advice. I dont think Mrs B shouldve opted out of the
OPS when she did. I think she received advice about that from MWM. That advice was
unsuitable.
MWM says there are three questions which need to be answered and based on the facts:
Did MWM provide pension transfer advice to Mrs B?
Did Mrs B receive advice to opt out of the OPS?
Could Mrs B have secured an ill heath pension from the OPS?
In my view, the answers to the first two questions are in the affirmative. I think MWM did
provide pension transfer advice to Mrs B. Although that advice may have been somewhat
informal I think, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, it did amount to advice to
transfer. Ive taken into account that formal advice was later given by another business, Firm
C. But by then Mrs B had already been advised, by MWM, to opt out of the OPS. The issue
of whether Mrs B could have secured an ill health pension from the OPS isnt straightforward
and may be material in the redress calculation.
Responses to my further provisional decision
MWM said it was disappointed with my findings which it continued to refute. MWM said 
thered been inconsistencies in the handling of the case and what was deemed by us to be a 
fair outcome. It said that the original finding was that the case should be upheld but the 
financial redress paid was adequate. Whereas my conclusions gave a very different 
outcome with no material difference in the information provided by either party. MWM didnt 
feel any explanation as to why that was the case had been provided. MWM also sought 
confirmation that the maximum amount of redress was capped at £160,000. And it raised a 
query about the evidence required to confirm that early retirement from the OPS wouldve 
been granted. The investigator responded to MWM about those matters.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that MWM feels there have been inconsistencies in our handling of the case. It is of 
course disappointing for MWM, having received the investigators view and which didnt 
recommend that MWM should pay any further compensation, to then receive a provisional 
decision from me taking a different view and awarding more compensation than MWM had 
offered. But, and as Ive explained before, ours is a two stage process. If either party doesnt 
accept the investigators view (and sometimes both parties may be unhappy), then the 
complaint is considered afresh by an ombudsman who may or may not agree with what the 
investigator has recommended. We do aim for consistency but it is sometimes the case that 
an ombudsman will consider that a different approach should prevail and even if no new material evidence has been provided since the investigators view was issued. 
MWM says the reason why my approach is different to that of the investigator hasnt been 
explained. But Ive issued two provisional decisions setting out what happened and why I 
consider MWM didnt act as it shouldve done and the impact on Mrs B. In my second 
provisional decision I dealt with the points MWM had raised in response to my first 
provisional decision. And, although MWM has said, in response to my second provisional 
decision, that it continues to disagree with what Ive said, it hasnt put forward any further 
arguments or set out why it still considers what Ive said was wrong. 
All in all my views remain as previously set out. Ive recapped in full my earlier provisional 
findings and what Ive said forms part of this final decision. 
As mentioned above, the maximum I can award in a case such as this is £160,000. Ive 
included below a recommendation that if the calculation shows Mrs Bs loss is more then 
MWM should pay the loss in full. But, as Ive said, MWM isnt obliged to comply with my 
recommendation. And the award Ive made is formulaic. We dont undertake this sort of 
redress calculation ourselves and I dont know how much the redress will be. The redress 
calculation may show that the loss isnt above our award limit anyway. 
Putting things right
Ive set out again the redress I proposed in my provisional decisions. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Chris Binns Wealth Management Limited 
trading as Model Wealth Management to put Mrs B, as far as possible, into the position 
shed be in now but for the unsuitable advice. I consider shed have remained in the OPS.
Chris Binns Wealth Management Limited trading as Model Wealth Management must 
therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance 
as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. Paragraph 2 of the 
introduction to the guidance says that it may also be relevant to complaints about opt outs. 
And paragraph 10 says that in respect of a complaint about opting out, the guidance may be 
used as a basis for calculating appropriate redress, to the extent that it is appropriate to do 
so and subject to the particular circumstances of the case.
The calculation should assume that just the extra opted out period of service remained in
place and compare that with a nil value for any replacement personal pension (there may
still be a SERPS (State Earnings Related Pension Scheme) or S2P adjustment). The
calculation should take into account the standard assumptions in the guidance as to how
long Mrs B wouldve remained in service unless there is evidence that confirms her service
will end at an earlier date due to her health condition. It should also take into account any
evidence that Mrs B has that she wouldve been granted an unreduced pension on ill health
early retirement from the OPS
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mrs Bs acceptance of the decision.
Chris Binns Wealth Management Limited trading as Model Wealth Management may wish to 
contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Bs contribution history 
to SERPS or S2P.These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the OPS on Mrs Bs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mrs Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mrs B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mrs Bs likely income
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs B within 90 days of the date
Chris Binns Wealth Management Limited trading as Model Wealth Management receives 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Chris Binns Wealth 
Management Limited trading as Model Wealth Management to pay Mrs B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Chris Binns Wealth Management Limited 
trading as Model Wealth Management should pay Mrs B the amount produced by that 
calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Chris Binns Wealth Management Limited trading as Model 
Wealth Management pays Mrs B the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Chris Binns Wealth 
Management Limited trading as Model Wealth Management doesnt have to do what I 
recommend. Its unlikely that Mrs B can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Mrs B may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Chris Binns Wealth Management Limited trading as Model Wealth 
Management must redress Mrs B as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 Lesley Stead
Ombudsman