DRN-3746277
The complaint
Mr G has complained that over £43,000 was taken out of his account with TSB Bank plc 
without his knowledge or his authority. 
Mr G is represented by his daughter. But for ease of reference I shall just refer to Mr G 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr G lived with his second wife. In May 2020 he went into a care home having been 
vulnerable for some time with varying illnesses including mixed dementia plus chronic 
lymphoid leukaemia. At that time his wife was suffering from terminal cancer and sadly died 
shortly afterwards. 
Mr Gs daughter then discovered Mr G had granted a Power of Attorney (POA) for financial 
issues for financial issues only, to his wifes granddaughter who I shall call Miss T. Mr Gs 
daughter believes over £43,000 has been withdrawn from his bank account over a period of 
20 months without Mr Gs knowledge or authority which is out of keeping with his previous 
spending. So, Mr G made a complaint to TSB. 
TSB investigated the matter. It said Mr G had been making regular cash withdrawals from 
ATMs and at branch since January 2018. By July 2018, he began taking out £2,000 in 
branch along with ATM withdrawals and this continued throughout 2018. The same activity 
also happened throughout 2019. And he was also issuing cheques. Therefore, TSB believed 
Mr G was merely using cash instead of his debit card. The balance in his account on 10 
October 2019 was £40,856.98. In early 2020 the cash and ATM withdrawals continued in the 
same pattern as 2018 and 2019. The balance on 30 April 2021 was £17,699.78.
TSB said on 8 April 2021 Miss T notified that Mr G had some medical conditions, so TSB put 
a block on his account. Then Miss T produced the POA on 19 April 2021. Following Mr Gs 
daughters complaint, TSB withdrew the POA on 23 August 2021 and it said only £3,700 was 
withdrawn during the time of the POA. Mr Gs daughter made her complaint to TSB in June 
2021, so a block was put on the account except for direct debits from then. And Mr G 
attended the branch in August 2021 with a social worker and his address was then changed 
to his care homes.
 
The Office of Public Guardian was made aware of the issues with the POA and it details in 
its letter of 16 July 2021 that Miss T has admitted making withdrawals and debits from Mr 
Gs account as funds were given to help overcome her drug problem and her own debts. 
She said she would pay it back but as she didnt, a safeguarding order was made, and the 
police were notified. 
TSB said in its final response letter of 20 October 2021 that it was confident it had made no 
mistakes. It explained that in the time span that Miss T had a POA she only made 
withdrawals and payments amounting to £3,696.98 and he had received a total of £9,634.43 
in credits mostly from the DWP. So, at no point did the account have the balance advised 
been withdrawn by Miss T.
 
As Mr G remained dissatisfied, he brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of the 
view that it shouldnt be upheld. This is because the withdrawal pattern on his bank account 
since 2018 didnt give rise to any concerns. Further no requests to change his address had 
been made until August 2021. So there was nothing to indicate to TSB that any change in Mr 
Gs capacity and without that there was nothing to show that TSB should have done 
anything else. 
Mr G remained dissatisfied, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
First, I do understand and appreciate how disappointed Mr G and his daughter will be with 
my decision. However, I can only base my decision on the evidence available to me and 
indeed the information of which TSB was also in receipt of at the varying critical times when 
withdrawals were being made. All banks including TSB are regulated by the Payment 
Service Regulations (PSRs) and they have specified duties under those regulations to 
permit the requested transactions.
 
The POA granted to Miss T was signed by Mr G in August 2018 and indeed accepted by the 
Office of Public Guardian in October 2018. So, by Miss T merely producing it to TSB in April 
2021 there was nothing to indicate that TSB should made any further enquiries of it. Its quite 
usual for POAs like this to have been set up some years earlier, prior to actually being 
needed. 
This also indicates to me that at that time in 2018, Mr G obviously trusted Miss T with his 
finances. While TSB have obligations to monitor accounts for signs of fraud or financial 
abuse, it can only pick up on things if the account activity becomes unusual and that it 
happens fairly suddenly or rapidly. There is no indication of that here since 2018. The 
changes to the account operation happen gradually, over a significant period of time.
It seems more likely than not to me that Mr G permitted Miss T to use his card and PIN. 
Which under the PSRs would be deemed effective authorisation for the transactions as they 
say the following:
A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the payer for 
the purposes of this part only if the payer has given its consent to the execution of 
the payment transaction
Such consent must be given in the form, and in the accordance with the procedure, 
agreed between the payer and its payment service provider.
The notion of consent is a formal one as in if the card the PIN are used as agreed that is 
consent under the PSRs. So, its not like the type of informed consent required to be given 
for undergoing a medical procedure.  So, if, which I think is most likely, Mr G permitted Miss 
T to use his card and PIN there is no duty on TSB to refuse to honour that request for a 
payment transaction.  And TSB on receiving the payment order via an ATM or at branch is 
required to honour the payment (assuming sufficient funds) without regard to whether the 
payee has any rights to receive it or an obligation to return it. The bank must promptly and accurately execute any authorised payment order unless executing it could be unlawful. This 
is because the payer is permitted to have someone else to initiate the payment transaction. 
And indeed, such an agent as Miss T was here, might exceed the authority given to them, 
but that doesnt then mean those payment transactions become unlawful. In situations with 
mental and/or physical incapacity, the bank needs to be on notice of the relevant incapacity 
before it can do anything or before the transaction isnt seen as authorised by law.
Furthermore. it was Miss T who told the bank about Mr Gs medical condition albeit not until 
2021 when he was already in a care home. Theres no evidence from the bank of Mr G or 
any other person notifying it around May 2020 when he was taken to hospital and then to a 
care home, or indeed before, of his mental and physical ill health. Without being notified of 
things like this TSB cant make any adjustments to help protect the account.
I can see from the evidence that TSB acted quickly and appropriately once it was made 
aware of Mr Gs health conditions and change of address and that Miss T was most likely 
well outside any authority which Mr G may have given her. It cancelled any cards and PIN 
that Miss T had been given via the POA and then TSB blocked Mr Gs account, except for 
the direct debits. 
 
I can appreciate the difficulties that the pandemic lockdowns made to communication and 
visiting, but again that didnt put any greater onus on banks like TSB to be more vigilant. 
There is no evidence of any requests to change Mr Gs address until August 2021 when he 
attended with the social worker.  It remains that if TSB was unaware of Mr Gs health 
conditions and change of address and there was no sudden change in his accounts activity 
(which there wasnt from 2018 onwards as seen from the statements), then there is nothing 
more that TSB could have done here.  Therefore, I dont consider TSB has done anything 
wrong here.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman