DRN-1379971
The complaint
Ms H has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited caused damage to her property 
when she made a claim under a home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Ms H had a Homecare policy with British Gas which covered her for emergencies in the 
home. On 31 May 2019 Ms H reported that her toilet was leaking, so British Gas sent out an 
engineer to fix it. However, Ms H complained that the engineer had made the problem 
worse, he hadnt left a job card and had damaged her hallway, leaving a stain on her carpet. 
British Gas sent out another engineer on the same day, who was able to fix the leak, and 
said it would look into her complaint about the damage.
Ms H says she didnt hear from British Gas until it sent her a letter in August 2019 saying it 
had closed her complaint as its contractor hadnt heard back from her. Ms H referred her 
complaint to our service, saying she hadnt had any contact from British Gas before August 
2019. She said her carpet still hadnt been cleaned.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She wasnt satisfied that British Gas had made 
adequate attempts to put matter right for Ms H. She thought British Gas should arrange to 
clean Ms Hs carpet and pay £100 for the inconvenience caused.
British Gas didnt agree. It said its contractors had tried to phone Ms H on three occasions in 
June 2019. It said it wasnt its fault that Ms H wasnt available to take the calls. It also said 
Ms H could have contacted it to arrange a suitable appointment. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion. So, the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Im pleased to hear that British Gas arranged for Ms Hs carpet to be cleaned in October 
2019, so the only issue for me to determine is whether the claim was handled poorly, such 
that compensation is warranted.
The incident happened on 31 May 2019. British Gas contractor tells us that it attempted to 
call Ms H on 4, 10 and 20 June 2019. The details provided show that the calls were made 
during the day. Ms H explains that she works, and as the calls were all made on weekdays 
to a landline, it isnt surprising that Ms H was unavailable to take the calls. Ms H tells us she 
has an answerphone; she confirmed receiving a message from British Gas in August 2019, 
but no messages were left for her in June 2019. This corresponds with the contractors notes, which say that calls were made and that there was no answer. None of the notes say 
a message had been left for Ms H asking her to call back.
Given Ms H had an answerphone, and the contractor needed Ms H to get in touch to 
arrange a suitable time for an appointment, I wouldve expected a message to have been left 
for her. Alternatively, I wouldve expected British Gas to let Ms H know in another way that it 
was trying to get in touch with her. However, the first notification Ms H received about this 
was a letter dated 5 August 2019 that she likely received several days later, explaining 
British Gas had been trying to contact her.
Overall, I think British Gas shouldve been in touch sooner to let Ms H know it was trying to 
contact her. By the time it wrote to Ms H, over nine weeks had passed since the damage 
had been reported. And I dont think Ms H wouldve known British Gas had been trying to get 
in touch before this date. Had a message been left for her in June 2019, I think its more 
likely than not that Ms H wouldve been in touch and her carpet wouldve been cleaned soon 
afterwards.
British Gas says that Ms H ought to have followed things up sooner, but I dont think its 
reasonable to have expected her to take further action. Ms H received letters from British 
Gas about her complaint on 5 June 2019 and 26 July 2019, telling her British Gas was still 
looking into things and it would be in touch. So, I think it was reasonable for Ms H to believe 
British Gas was still looking into her concerns and that it would be in touch with her when it 
had an update.
I think that the damage caused by the first engineers visit caused Ms H distress and 
inconvenience. It took over four months to put things right, which I think couldve been 
avoided if British Gas and its contractors had communicated more clearly with Ms H and with 
greater frequency. Overall, I think British Gass handling of the claim fell short of the 
standard I wouldve expected, so it should pay Ms H £100 in compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by this.
Putting things right
British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Ms H £100.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint.
British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Ms H £100 compensation in settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman