DRN-1695901
 
Complaint 
Mr B and Ms K complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a loan in 1996. 
Background
The policy cost £28.23 and covered Mr B only as the first named insured, if he couldn't work 
because of an accident, sickness, or if he lost his job. The policy also provided life cover for 
Mr B and Ms K for the amount of the outstanding balance on their loan. Its not clear if the 
loan was an unsecured or a secured loan. If Mr B and Ms K had taken out a secured loan, 
the policy would have paid out the monthly loan repayment for up to 12 months if Mr B was 
made unemployed; and for up to 24 months if he was off work through an accident or 
sickness. If the policy covered an unsecured loan, it would have paid the monthly benefit for 
up to 12 months per successful claim for unemployment and until Mr B returned to work, or 
the loan ended, for accident and sickness.
Our adjudicator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Mr B and Ms K did not agree 
and asked the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
I realise Mr B and Ms K feel strongly about this matter. I am sorry to disappoint them, but I 
havent upheld their complaint. Ill explain why below.
Nationwide no longer holds any paperwork or documentation about this sale. This is 
unsurprising and not unusual as businesses aren't required to keep records indefinitely. 
Mr B and Ms K also dont have any further paperwork or remember everything that 
happened about the sale - again this is not surprising given that the sale happened such a 
long time ago. So, where the evidence is incomplete or inconsistent, to make my decision, I 
have applied the balance of probabilities. In other words, Ive looked at whats more likely to 
have happened based on the evidence before me. I have also considered what we know 
about how this business sold PPI around that time.
Turning now to the issue of whether the PPI cover was mis-sold. Mr B and Ms K told us in 
their PPI questionnaire that they couldn't recall discussing the PPI as they had always 
declined it as an unnecessary expense. They've also told me it was of no relevance to their 
circumstances.  I can see from a screenshot that Nationwide has been able to provide that 
Mr B and Ms K refused the PPI in 1999 when they took out another loan - so this is what 
they might remember. And Mr B later told us they say that they were completely unaware that PPI was attached to this loan in 1996. I have no doubt that Mr B and Ms K have told me 
what they honestly remember but I've also taken into account that this policy was taken out 
over twenty years ago.
Ive thought carefully about whether Mr B and Ms K would have known they had a choice 
about buying this cover and whether they agreed to take it out in 1996. I appreciate I dont 
have a copy of the original form that Mr B and Ms K completed, so as I explained above I 
have applied the balance of probabilities to see whats more likely. Mr B and Ms K say this 
was an unsecured loan but as Nationwide cant confirm whether Mr B and Ms K took out a 
secured or an unsecured loan, it has provided a copy of both types of application from the 
time of the sale. I think these application forms represented what Mr B and Ms K saw.
On both agreements I can see that the cost of the PPI is set out separately and stated to be 
monthly premium for optional credit insurance. So, I think its likely that at some point in the 
process Mr B and Ms K would have consented to the insurance being added. I also think its 
likely they would have had to complete a direct debit mandate, and that the payments for the 
PPI would have shown separately on their statements. So, if they hadn't been aware, they 
had added the PPI or didn't want it, I think its more likely that they would have questioned 
the insurance at the time with Nationwide. I havent seen evidence that they have done so.
On balance in 1996, I think its more likely that Mr B and Ms K chose the PPI knowing they 
could decline it if they didn't want it- even if they cant remember doing so now after so long.
Nationwide didn't advise Mr B and Ms K to buy the policy. That meant that it didn't need to 
take reasonable steps to make sure the policy was suitable for them, but it still had to give 
enough clear information, so they could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for 
their needs.
Its possible that Nationwide didn't give Mr B and Ms K all the information it should have 
given. But thats not enough to uphold their complaint. I next need to decide whether Mr B 
and Ms K would have changed their mind about buying the policy even if theyd had clearer 
or better information.
To help me decide, Ive thought about what Mr B and Ms K have said about their personal 
circumstances and about the terms and conditions of the policy. On balance, I cant say they 
would have made a different decision. 
I say this because Mr B who was covered by the policy was eligible for it. And as he was 
working and didn't have any health conditions at the time, he wouldn't have been affected by 
any of the main limitations or exclusions set out in the policy which might have made it more 
difficult to make a claim.
I can see Mr B has told us he would have received six months sick pay followed by six 
months half pay from work. He has also said he had no real savings at the time with which 
he could have covered the loan repayments. Ms K told us she had six months full sick pay 
followed by six months half sick pay. Mr B has also clarified he was in a secure job for 14 
years without taking time off sick.  I appreciate the reasons why Mr B and Ms K have 
explained their circumstances, but I still think on balance the PPI could have been useful. 
The policy would have paid out whether on a secured or unsecured loan for longer and in 
addition to any sick pay Mr B got. And if Mr B lost his job then the PPI would have been 
helpful at what no doubt would have been a stressful time financially. I accept in hindsight Mr 
B and Ms K say they didn't need the PPI but insurance is taken out to protect an unforeseen 
event. Circumstances can change and as they were taking on a new financial commitment, I 
still think the policy could have been useful if things went wrong.Mr B has also told us about an accident insurance policy he had. But from what Mr B has 
said I dont think this policy would have duplicated the cover. It was a policy which appears 
to pay out based on the injuries sustained and wouldn't have covered the loan repayments 
Mr B and Ms K were responsible for.
Theres nothing to make me think the cost of the policy was unaffordable.
Ive taken into consideration everything Mr B and Ms K have said about why they thought the 
PPI had been mis-sold and that Mr B had always declined this type of policy on other 
occasions. But this doesn't change my mind. Ive explained why I think the policy could 
have been useful and it seems like Mr B and Ms K chose the PPI at the time - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of insurance. 
It follows that Im satisfied that I dont think Mr B and Ms K lost out as a result of anything 
Nationwide did wrong and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 September 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman