DRN-3780006
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) misled Mrs C in relation to the
renewal of their travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs C have the benefit of travel insurance as part of a
current account. They pay for a medical upgrade to cover certain medical conditions for
Mrs C.
In February 2021, Mrs C phoned UKI in order to renew her medical upgrade. Ill refer to
that phone call in more detail below. Following that call, Mrs C chose not to renew the
policy at that time.
In May 2021, Mrs C called UKI to renew the upgrade. UKI told her that the policy had
lapsed. It asked Mrs C its medical screening questions and she mentioned an additional
condition that she hadnt mentioned before. UKI told her that it wouldnt cover her
medical conditions. Mr and Mrs C renewed the policy without cover for Mrs Cs medical
conditions. Mrs C subsequently obtained cover with another insurer.
Mrs C doesnt think that UKI treated her fairly. She thinks that UKI steered her away from
renewing in February 2021. Mrs C doesnt recall UKI telling her that it may not be able to
offer the same level of cover if she renewed later. She wants it to reinstate the cover at
the renewal price it quoted in February 2021. In response to Mrs Cs complaint, UKIs
position was that it warned her of the risks of deferring her renewal.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt agree that UKI steered
Mrs C away from renewing the policy in February 2021. The investigator said that UKI
simply presented that as an option. He said that whilst UKI told Mrs C that it may or may
not be able to offer the same level of cover in the future, it did so in a light tone which
diminished the importance of that message. He said that UKI should have treated the
warning about the level of cover in the future with more gravity and that its failure to do
so amounted to poor service. The investigator thought that UKI should pay Mrs C
compensation of £50 in relation to that.
The investigator said that the reason UKI declined cover in May 2021 was because
Mrs C disclosed a pulmonary embolism, which she hadnt declared before. So, UKI
would have declined cover in February 2021 if Mrs C had disclosed the same
information then. The investigator said that meant that Mrs C hadnt suffered a financial
loss.
UKI didnt agree with the investigator. It didnt think that it had given Mrs C incorrect or
misleading information. UKI said that the phone call in February 2021 had been handled
as it would expect. It said that Mrs C didnt explain in February 2021 that she would be
disclosing an additional condition, so it couldnt have known that things had changed.
UKI said that if Mrs C had completed the medical screening in February 2021, it would
have declined cover, so she would have been upset at that decision in February 2021,
rather than May 2021.
The investigator considered what UKI said but it didnt change his view. UKI asked that
an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
On 7 October 2022, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I indicated 
that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive listened to the phone call between Mrs C and UKI in February 2021. UKI told
Mrs C that, as she had no trips booked, she could let the upgrade lapse and renew
it at a later date, before they booked their next trip. In that phone call, UKI also told
Mrs C that it reviews the cover it provides on a regular basis and may or may not
be able to offer the same level of cover in the future. On balance, I think that the
information UKI provided to Mrs C was clear, fair, and not misleading. The delivery
of the standard information was somewhat rushed but theres no indication that UKI
was seeking to persuade Mrs C not to renew the upgrade or that Mrs C didnt
understand what shed been told.
In general terms, an insurer can decide what risks its willing to cover at each
renewal. When Mrs C contacted UKI again in May 2021 in order to renew the
upgrade, she disclosed the three conditions shed disclosed previously. In
response to a question about DVT, Mrs C also said that shed had a pulmonary
embolism many years ago and a clot in her lung four times. After considering the
information Mrs C had given, UKI said that it couldnt cover Mrs Cs medical
conditions. It was entitled to come to that view.
UKI says  and I accept  that if Mrs C had disclosed the same information in
February 2021 that she disclosed in May 2021, it would have declined cover for her
medical conditions. So, the information UKI provided in February 2021 about
deferring the upgrade didnt alter the outcome here, as if Mrs C had proceeded in
February 2021 and given the same information that she gave in May 2021, UKI
would have declined cover for her medical conditions.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C but, based on what Ive seen and heard, there
are no grounds on which I can direct UKI to reinstate the policy on the basis of the
renewal quote of February 2021. Thats because UKI is entitled to take into
account the medical information Mrs C provided and decide that it doesnt wish to
offer cover for Mrs Cs existing medical conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr and Mrs C nor UKI have made any substantive response to my provisional 
decision. I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached previously. For the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think that UKI acted unfairly or unreasonably in this case. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman