DRN-3147884
The complaint
Mrs G isnt happy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim she made on her travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs G and her family had an annual travel insurance policy with Great Lakes. The policy 
covered her from 23 March 2019 until 22 March 2020 (the 2019/2020 policy). In May 
2019 she booked a holiday abroad. She booked flights directly with the airline but used a 
tour operator to book accommodation, trains, transfers and activities. She and her family 
were due to travel on 30 March 2020 and return to the UK on 13 April 2020.
In February 2020 Mrs G renewed the policy for a further year and added natural 
catastrophe cover and gadget cover to the policy - this meant she was covered between 
23 March 2020 and 22 March 2021 (the 2020/2021 policy).
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be pandemic. On 
12 March 2020 the country Mr B and Ms W were visiting banned the entry of all foreign 
nationals and suspended existing visas for foreign tourists, effective from 13 March 2020. 
A few days later, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office 
(FCDO) advised against all but essential travel and that guidance remained in force at 
the time Mrs Gs trip was due to go ahead.
Mrs G submitted a claim form on 23 March 2020, the same date on which the UK 
government imposed widespread restrictions on movement, in which she said that shed 
told the tour operator she wanted to cancel on 14 March 2020. She said that the FCDO had 
forbidden travel to her destination on 14 March 2020 and gave the reason for cancellation 
as Covid-19.
Great Lakes declined the claim. They said that there was no cover under the cancellation 
section of the policy and that there wasnt cover for prohibitive regulations by the
government of any country, or delay or amendment of the booked trip due to government 
action.
In a later email the agent explained that theyd spoken to Mrs G on the 14 March 2020 in 
relation to the situation and theyd incorrectly generated a cancellation invoice. However, 
they said the trip wasnt actually cancelled until after the UK lockdown was in place and 
that suppliers hadnt been informed of cancellation until 26 March 2020. They explained 
that theyd been able to get a partial refund of £2200 from their suppliers but that around 
£3950 remained outstanding. Mrs G has also since been able to recover the full cost of her 
flights from the airline.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mrs Gs complaint. She didnt 
think it was fair that Mrs G was left in a position where she wasnt covered if she travelled 
against FCDO advice but also not covered if she cancelled. So, she didnt think it mattered 
that Mrs G cancelled before the date the FCDO guidance against all but essential travel 
was issued on 17 March 2020. She didnt think that Mrs G had prejudiced Great Lakes 
position by cancelling the trip on 14 March 2020. She thought that Great Lakes should pay 
the claim together with 8% simple interest. Great Lakes didnt agree and asked an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. 
In October 2021 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I didnt intend to uphold Mrs 
Gs complaint. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles 
for Business) say;
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to;
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of 
its customer;
handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy 
in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make 
an informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
Appropriate information includes the information that must be set out in an Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) which gives customers an at a glance summary 
of their cover. This includes a summary of the insurance cover, including the main risks 
insured, the insured sum and, where applicable, the geographical scope and summary 
of excluded risks.
Relevant regulatory guidance (the FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and 
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers) says firms should consider the impact of 
their actions  or inactions  on the customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being 
provided.
The Policy Terms and Conditions for cancellation and curtailment
Page 22 of the policy terms and conditions says:
There is no cover under this policy for travel to a country or region where the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office has advised against travel
Section A of the policy, on pages 24 and 25, sets out the cover available for cancellation 
or curtailment. Curtailment cover applies if the policyholder is forced to return to their 
home country due to a number of reasons. In summary, cancellation is covered in the 
following circumstances:Illness, injury or death of the policyholder, a close relative or a person 
the policyholder is due to travel or stay with
Cancellation or delay of departure in certain circumstances
Jury Service, redundancy or compulsory quarantine
The policyholders home being made uninhabitable or place of business 
becoming unavailable
The policyholder or their travelling companion having their leave cancelled by 
the emergency services.
The terms say that the policy doesnt cover:
Any claim resulting from Your inability to travel due to an Insured Persons failure 
to hold, obtain or produce a valid passport or any required visa in time for the 
booked trip
Prohibitive regulations by the government of any country, or delay or amendment 
of the booked Trip due to government action;
Anything mentioned in the general exclusions.
The General Exclusions section, on pages 48 and 49, excludes:
Any claim arising from You travelling to a country or specific area or event to which 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has 
advised the public not to travel.
Was Mrs Gs claim unfairly declined?
My findings are limited to those set out within this decision. In reaching my decision Ive 
taken account of the relevant law, including the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
Great Lakes made a number of representations in relation to recent caselaw and how it 
applies to the circumstances of this case. Whilst Im not intending to uphold this complaint 
it doesnt follow that I accept their interpretation of the law and how it applies in the 
circumstances of this case. In making their representations Great Lakes referred me to 
the submissions made by the parties in the case, as opposed to the courts findings. I 
dont agree that the Supreme Court analysis applies to the relevant clause in this policy as 
the court was considering other types of instructions from public authorities. Finally,
Great Lakes considered that Mrs G was compelled to stay at home on 16 March 2020 and 
that this had the force of law. I dont agree with Great Lakes interpretation that this 
amounts to a prohibitive regulation as set out in policy terms and conditions.
The country Mrs G was intending to visit banned the entry of all foreign nationals and 
suspended existing visas for foreign tourists, effective from 13 March 2020. Mrs Gs travel 
provider produced an invoice for cancellation dated 14 March 2020 and Mrs G submitted 
her claim form on 23 March 2020 stating that shed cancelled due to FCDO advice and due 
to Covid-19.The call notes provided from Great Lakes show that Mrs G spoke to Great Lakes on
12 March 2020 and explained the situation about tourist visas not being accepted. She 
was told to call back 7 days before her trip and that shed need a cancellation invoice. 
When she called on 17 March 2020, the date the FCDO advised against all but essential 
travel, she was told to call back 48 hours before the travel start date and she mentioned 
having obtained the cancellation invoice.
The travel provider later clarified that the actual cancellation of the accommodation and 
suppliers didnt take place until 26 March 2020. But, overall, I think the evidence suggests 
its most likely that the cancellation effectively took place on or around 14 March 2020 
when the 2019/2020 policy was in force which means that Mrs G didnt have the benefit of 
the trip disruption additional cover option at the point of cancellation. 
Its difficult to pinpoint one specific reason for Mrs Gs claim. I think there were a number of 
factors which caused her to cancel her trip including the suspension of visas, the 
restrictions to entry to the destination country and FCDO advice not to travel. I think its 
most likely that all of these factors had some impact on Mrs Gs decision to cancel.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mrs Gs policy wouldnt have provided cover if 
theyd travelled against FCDO advice. She thought this left Mrs G in an unfair position. 
There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to claims for 
changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think it 
was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and 
conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Great Lakes 
to do so in the circumstances of this case, for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
No insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what level 
of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, Great 
Lakes obligations under its contract with Mrs G are limited by the terms, conditions and 
exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mrs Gs trip was cancelled, in part, because her visa was suspended and she wasnt 
allowed to enter the country she was intending to visit. There is an exclusion in the policy 
relating to the prohibitive regulations imposed by any government and an exclusion if Mrs G 
was unable to travel if she couldnt produce the required visa. So, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Great Lakes to conclude that these exclusions apply to the cancellation of 
Mrs Gs trip in the circumstances of this case. That means that, even if I thought that it 
wasnt fair to apply the exclusion relating to changes in FCDO advice, I think there are 
other reasons why Mrs Gs claim has been fairly declined in the circumstances of this case.
In response to my provisional decision Mrs G said that she was extremely disappointed and 
shocked. She said that she did all she could to go on the holiday but was unable to for 
reasons outside of her control. She said she believed she should be covered and has lost 
confidence in travel insurance and her insurer. 
Great Lakes said that they accepted my decision but queried why I didnt agree with their 
interpretation of the law. They said that the Court of Appeal found that the prime ministers 
announcements on 16th March had the force of law in terms of the perception, and in this 
instance, perception was reality. 
So, I now need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account Mrs Gs further comments. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G but I still 
think it was fair for Great Lakes to decline her travel insurance claim. I appreciate that Mrs G 
did all she could to go on the trip and I accept that the claim arose due to circumstances 
outside of her control. But travel insurance doesnt cover every eventuality  the policy 
specifies the risks the insurer is prepared to cover and those which it excludes. 
In the circumstances of this case I remain persuaded that the exclusions for prohibitive 
regulations and being unable to produce the required visa apply for the reasons I explained 
in my provisional decision. 
Finally, Great Lakes made further comments about the impact of the prime ministers 
announcement on 16 March 2020. In my view, the 16 March 2020 announcement was in 
less clear terms than the instruction of the 23 March 2020. This is why I dont agree with 
Great Lakes interpretation of the law and how it applies to the circumstances of Mrs Gs 
complaint. 
The key points covered in the announcement on 16 March 2020 included the following: 
 And even if you don't have symptoms and if no one in your household has 
symptoms, there is more that we need you to do now.  So, second, now is the time 
for everyone to stop non-essential contact with others and to stop all unnecessary 
travel. We need people to start working from home where they possibly can. And you 
should avoid pubs, clubs, theatres and other such social venues.
The closure of some businesses was announced on 20 March, with the following information 
included in the announcement:  
listening to what I have just said, some people may of course be tempted to go out 
tonight. But please don't. You may think you are invincible, but there is no guarantee 
you will get mild symptoms, and you can still be a carrier of the disease and pass it 
on to others. So that's why, as far as possible, we want you to stay at home
However, the legal restrictions on movement were announced on 23 March and came into 
force on 26 March, together with the closure of further types of business and other 
locations.  The announcement included: 
From this evening I must give the British people a very simple instruction - you must 
stay at home. ... That is why people will only be allowed to leave their home for the 
following very limited purposes [shopping for basics; exercise once a day; any 
medical or care need; and work if absolutely necessary]. That's all - these are the 
only reasons you should leave your home.  You should not be meeting friends. If 
your friends ask you to meet, you should say No. You should not be meeting family 
members who do not live in your home. You should not be going shopping except for 
essentials like food and medicine - and you should do this as little as you can. And 
use food delivery services where you can. If you don't follow the rules the police will 
have the powers to enforce them, including through fines and dispersing gatherings.The Supreme Court was asked to consider whether restrictions imposed meant something 
which had the force of law.  It held that that restrictions imposed would ordinarily mean 
restrictions with the force of law, but an instruction could amount to a restriction if it was a 
mandatory instruction given by a public authority on the basis that legally binding measures 
would follow shortly, or would if there was a failure to comply.  This was only likely to arise in 
emergency situations.  The instructions would need to be in mandatory terms and sufficiently 
clear as to what was required to comply. 
The Supreme Court did not decide which announcements met the test Ive outlined above, 
but commented that the arguments were stronger in relation to specific announcements, 
such as the 20 March instruction to close businesses.  It said that it would consider further 
arguments, but this issue fell away.  
Taking all the above into account I dont think I can fairly say that the instructions issued 
on 16 March 2020 met the criteria for a restriction as set out by the Supreme Court. So, 
having taken all the circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont agree with Great 
Lakes interpretation that this amounts to a prohibitive regulation as set out in the policy 
terms and conditions. 
 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman