DRN-2593945
The complaint
Mrs H complains Bupa Insurance Limited unfairly increased her premiums and provided her 
with incorrect information and poor service. 
What happened
Mrs H holds a private medical insurance policy with Bupa. And at her renewal in 2020, her 
premiums increased. Mrs H said she was previously told her premiums would not be 
affected by the consultations she intended to go ahead with, and she thinks this information 
was misleading. 
Bupa has explained its pricing structure with regard to its low claims bonus. And has said 
Mrs Hs premium increase was in line with its criteria for higher value claims. 
When speaking with Mrs H about her renewal over the phone in June 2020, Bupa agreed to 
call back on a particular date. Mrs H said she didnt receive the call, and this caused her 
distress and impacted her opportunity to decide whether or not to renew her policy. Bupa 
has accepted that the call wasnt made  its apologised for this and paid Mrs H £250. 
Mrs H is also concerned that treatment was unavailable under her policy during a period of 
2020, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mrs H raised a complaint with Bupa. And following its response, she brought her complaint 
to this service. An investigator here looked into what had happened and said he didnt think 
Bupa needed to do anything further to put things right. 
Bupa made no comments on the investigators view. However, Mrs H disagreed and asked 
for a decision from an ombudsman. And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Bupa has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Having done so, I dont think Bupa has acted unfairly. And Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I should note Mrs H has previously brought a complaint about Bupa to this service. 
And a final decision was issued in October 2020. So I wont be revisiting any of the matters 
covered in that complaint. Im also aware Mrs H may have new complaints with Bupa, so its 
important to clarify that this decision will focus on the events related to the final response 
Bupa issued in July 2020, only. 
The premium increase 
Bupa said the premium increase for Mrs Hs 2020/2021 policy year, was related to the value 
of claims she had made in the 12 months prior to the renewal. Mrs Hs policy fell into Bupas 
higher claims category in relation to its low claim bonus. The claim value thresholds for the 
bonus are detailed on the membership certificate Bupa provided to Mrs H. 
Mrs H had spoken with a senior manager at Bupa who authorised consultations. And she 
recollects she was told the claims relating to finding a new specialist, wouldnt have an 
impact on her premium costs. Bupa said this call wasnt recorded. And said these 
appointments would have had no impact on Mrs Hs eligibility to claim. However it thinks its 
unlikely it would have said the claims would have no impact on premiums, as the value of 
claims paid is something Bupa takes into account at renewal. 
Ive considered what both Mrs H and Bupa have said about the conversation. The call was 
handled by a senior manager at Bupa, so I think its less likely that incorrect information was 
provided about the way premium increases are calculated. However, it remains a possibility 
that the information given was unclear, and led Mrs H to take away an incorrect 
understanding of what was said. Although I cant be sure of what was said during the call, I 
dont think it makes a difference here. I say this because Ive looked at the value of the 
claims Mrs H had made in the 12 months prior to the renewal calculation  between May 
2019 and May 2020. And she had already passed Bupas higher value claims threshold, 
prior to the two new claims authorised during the call with the senior manager. 
Bupa has evidenced the claim values it took into account when assessing Mrs Hs eligibility 
for a discount at renewal. And it has shown that this is applied in the same way to all 
policyholders in a similar situation. So Im satisfied Bupa hasnt unfairly increased Mrs Hs 
premiums for the 2020/2021 policy year. 
Availability of treatment 
Mrs H has said she is concerned about the availability of treatment under her policy due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic. Looking at Mrs Hs claims history, I can see she claimed for 
treatment in the earlier part of 2020, during February and March, up until early April. And her 
next claim was for a consultation which took place in mid-May. And she made further claims 
for treatment and consultations which took place throughout the rest of 2020 from July 
onwards. 
I appreciate that there were some delays in access to treatment, and that this was due to the 
NHS use of private hospital facilities between April and September 2020. However, this isnt 
something I can reasonably hold Bupa accountable for, as it was beyond its control. And, 
based on the treatment Ive seen Mrs H was able to access in 2020, I think its fair to say she 
has been able to benefit from her policy. 
Customer service 
Mrs H has said that Bupas failure to call her on the date it promised, impacted her ability to 
make a decision about whether to continue her policy at renewal, or to change to another 
policy. And she said she was part-way through treatment with a consultant who may have 
been unavailable to her under another policy. 
Ive looked at the delay caused to Mrs H in Bupa not calling her. I can see it was due to call 
her on a Monday, and after the call wasnt received, Mrs H called on the Friday of the same 
week. At that point, there was still a further month available to Mrs H in which she could 
consider her renewal options, and continue treatment with the consultant she had been 
seeing. And she saw that consultant during the week she was expecting Bupa to call. So I 
dont think Bupas mistake greatly impacted Mrs Hs renewal or treatment options. Bupa apologised for the failure to call when agreed, and paid Mrs H £250 in compensation. 
Im satisfied this adequately recognises the impact of the mistake, so I wont be asking Bupa 
to pay anything further here.
I also note that Mrs H has queried the amount of compensation Bupa offered in its response 
to her complaint. Im satisfied by the explanation it gave in its final response letter, that it was 
offering £250 only.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I make no award against Bupa 
Insurance Limited. Bupa has already paid Mrs H £250 in compensation. And I think thats fair 
in all the circumstances of this case. So Im not directing it to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman