DRN-3253360
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly 
declined a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to RSA, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
In 2016, Mr and Mrs M purchased their home. As part of this sale, a strip of unregistered 
land to the side of the property was included although it didnt form part of the title. In 2019, 
they applied to the land registry for adverse possession, but this was unsuccessful because 
the local council said the land formed part of the highway.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs M made a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy and a 
panel firm of solicitors was instructed. The solicitors concluded that the claim fell outside of 
the scope of cover offered by the policy. In addition, they didnt think it enjoyed reasonable 
prospects of being successful which is a condition of cover. Based on this advice, RSA 
declined the claim. 
Mr and Mrs M raised a complaint which they brought to our service. But our investigator 
didnt uphold it. He was satisfied the claim didnt fall within the policy coverage and that it 
was fair for RSA to rely on the legal advice it obtained. 
As Mr and Mrs M dont agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms legal expenses insurance policy says it will 
cover residential claims defined as:
The cost of you taking legal proceedings against another person or organisation as a result 
of:
a) a person or organisation interfering with your legal rights relating to your home. (You 
must be legally entitled to live in your home.)
b) a dispute over a contract in your name to buy or sell your home or former home or to 
rent your home as a tenant,
c) an event that causes loss of or damage to your home.
The cost of defending legal action brought against you as a result of:
a) you allegedly interfering with another persons legal rights in connection with you 
owning or living in your home. (You must be legally entitled to live in your home.)
b) a dispute over a contract in your name to buy or sell your home or former home or to 
rent your home as a tenant.
In order for a claim to be accepted, RSA must be satisfied that it falls within the scope of 
cover offered by the policy. 
In this case, the dispute giving rise to the claim is about a strip of land which is unregistered 
and not included within Mr and Mrs Ms title deeds. As such, it doesnt form part of the 
home and there is no evidence to show that Mr and Mrs M are the legal owners of it.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M feel there is strong evidence to conclude that they own this strip 
of land. But its not been legally determined that they do, otherwise thered be no dispute 
here.
Mr and Mrs M argue that there are no policy exclusions which are applicable to their claim. 
But that isnt the test here. The first step is to determine whether there is a relevant section 
of cover that the claim would fall within. We dont expect an insurer to list every situation the 
policy doesnt cover, but we do expect them to list the situations it does cover along with any 
exceptions. In this case, Im not satisfied the circumstances of this claim falls within the 
policy coverage.
In addition, the solicitors have concluded that this claim doesnt enjoy reasonable prospects 
of success which is a requirement for cover under the policy. It says:
What is not coveredAny claim where there is not a reasonable chance of you winning the 
case and achieving a reasonable outcome.
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if 
advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
The solicitors say land which forms part of a highway isnt able to be obtained by adverse 
possession. They advise that Mr and Mrs M would need to challenge the local councils 
position by either proving the land doesnt form part of the highway or bring a claim for 
reclassification of the highway. Theyre of the opinion that neither of these options falls within 
the scope of cover offered by the policy.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding due to a claims prospects of success, it 
isnt for me to evaluate the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, my role is to look at 
whether the insurer has acted fairly. So long as it has obtained written and well-reasoned 
advice from suitably qualified lawyers, I wont generally question its reliance on that advice, 
unless I think it was obviously wrong or factually incorrect. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M feel that the solicitors arent suitably qualified in the area of law 
applicable to their claim. But from the information Ive seen, Im satisfied theyre suitably 
qualified in the types of residential disputes which the policy covers. Whilst Mr and Mrs M 
say this doesnt specifically include claims of reclassification of a highway, Im not persuaded 
they need to be as this isnt an area of law covered by the policy terms. 
In summary, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs M have evidenced that they have a valid claim 
that falls within the scope of cover offered by the policy. As such, it follows that Im not of the 
opinion RSA has declined the claim unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman