DRN-4084045
The complaint
Miss K complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Blue Motor Finance Ltd, who Ill call BMF.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss K, but I dont think I have sufficient information to suggest this 
car was supplied to her in an unsatisfactory condition. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss K acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMF, who are also the supplier of 
the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss K. The car here was over 
eight and a half years old and had already travelled almost 90,500 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person wouldnt expect it to be fault free as perhaps would be the case with a 
brand new vehicle.
Miss K took receipt of the car in April 2022, and almost seven months later a third party 
garage report confirmed that there was a water leak and that the head gasket had failed. 
Given the time Miss K had been in receipt of the car, and the appreciable mileage covered 
by the time it failed, I think it was for Miss K to demonstrate the fault was present or 
developing at the time it was supplied to her: the point at which BMF were responsible for its 
quality. I dont think shes been able to do that because I havent seen any expert evidence 
to support that view.
The relevant legislation says that when we consider whether goods are of satisfactory quality 
we should also think about whether theyve been durable. But given that Miss Ks car was 
already over nine years old and had completed close to 96,000 miles when it failed, I dont 
think a failure of this kind could be unexpected. Im not therefore persuaded that the car 
wasnt durable, and I dont think I have sufficient evidence it was supplied in an 
unsatisfactory condition.
Im not therefore asking BMF to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman