DRN-2085965
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made on 
his motor insurance policy. He wants compensation for its poor service and the costs of his 
accident.
What happened
Mr S was involved in a non-fault accident and he made a claim on his policy. But Mr S was 
unhappy that Admiral assessed his car as being beyond economical repair based on his 
photographs. He said an engineer who inspected the car later was forced to come to the 
same outcome. 
Mr S was unhappy that his policy was cancelled and he couldnt drive the car to have it 
valued. He was unhappy with Admirals settlement offer for the market value of his car and 
its deduction for his policy excess. He also thought his cars value should be on his policy 
and he was unhappy that his insurance was now going to cost him more.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought it was 
for Admirals expert engineers to decide how to assess a car. She didnt think the engineer 
was forced to decide the car was a total loss. She thought Admiral had cancelled the policy 
in keeping with the policy terms and conditions. 
She thought Admiral had reasonably assessed the cars market value. The policy excess 
was stated on the insurance certificate. She didnt think Admiral was required to include the 
cars value on the policy. And she thought Admiral was entitled to set the policy premium.
Mr S replied that he disagreed. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr S has told us that hes taken some of his concerns about insurance 
practices to the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Mr S was unhappy with how his car was assessed by Admiral. But I dont think its unusual 
for insurers to rely on photographs rather than physical inspection to assess repair costs. 
Admiral explained that this was done by an expert engineer. As it turned out, a second 
assessment carried out by an independent assessor came to the same result. I cant see 
evidence that this engineer was forced to come to the same conclusion. 
I think its reasonable for Admiral to rely on its expert engineers opinions. I cant see any 
conflicting evidence that it should have considered. So I cant say that Admirals methods of 
assessment caused Mr S any loss. 
Mr S was unhappy that his policy was cancelled after his car was deemed a total loss. But I 
can see that this is clearly set out in the policy terms and conditions. I think Admiral told Mr S 
on the phone that his policy would cancel and then it confirmed this by letter. So I cant say it 
made a mistake in this. 
I can see that one agent incorrectly told Mr S that his policy was cancelled in error, but 
Admiral corrected this in a letter to Mr S. I can see that Admiral offered to set up a new 
policy taking into account the claim. 
Mr S said he never agreed to pay a voluntary excess of £250 on top of his compulsory 
excess of £75. Ive looked at Mr Ss policy documents and I can see that this is set out on his 
policy schedule. I cant see from Admirals file that Mr S challenged this when he received 
the policy documents. So Ive no evidence that he didnt agree with this. And so I think its 
fair for Admiral to apply this excess. 
Mr S was unhappy with Admirals valuation of his car and that the value wasnt on his policy. 
Ive seen some policies where theres an agreed value for a car in the case of its total loss. 
This is usually in the case of rare or classic cars. But Mr Ss policy isnt an agreed value one. 
His policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. 
This services approach to car valuations is that we dont provide valuations for cars but look 
to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we usually obtain valuations from 
motor-trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides 
to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide 
research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We 
also take all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
In Mr Ss case, his car was over 30 years old. The guides we use didnt provide valuations 
because of the cars age. So Admiral instructed an independent assessor to value it. I think 
this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The assessor valued the car at £3,250. 
Mr S wanted to retain the salvage, so Admiral deducted £390 for this and £325 for the policy 
excess. Mr S received a settlement of £2,535. Mr S had earlier told Admiral that he thought 
the car was worth about £2,000. I havent seen any alternative expert assessments of the 
cars value that Admiral should have considered. So I think Admirals valuation was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr S provided an ad for a car similar to his advertised at £3,950. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. So I dont think the ad is a reason for Admiral to increase its 
settlement offer.
Mr S was unhappy that his insurance was going to cost him more. But Admiral explained 
that it rated on all incidents, regardless of fault. This is its commercial decision, So I cant say 
Admiral have treated Mr S differently to other consumers or unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman