DRN-3186778
The complaint
Mrs V complains that JD Williams & Company Limited (trading as Ambrose Wilson, who Ill 
refer to as JD Williams) declined to freeze the interest and costs on her catalogue shopping 
account, to help her to reduce the overall balance. Mrs V is represented in her complaint by 
her husband, Mr B. Shes also complained that JD Williams have continued to send her 
promotional material aimed at getting her to purchase additional products and shes found 
their responses to be consistently unsympathetic and uncooperative.
What happened
Mrs V has had a shopping account with JD Williams since February 1995. She told us that 
until recently, she regularly made monthly payments of £100 to her account. 
In July 2019, JD Williams sent Mrs V a letter telling her that during the previous 18 months 
she had paid more in interest and charges than she had paid towards her principal balance. 
It advised her to increase her payments, as that would reduce her balance more quickly. 
Mrs V wrote back to JD Williams to say that she couldnt afford to pay more than £100 a 
month. She asked that her account be frozen and said she wouldnt buy anything further 
until further notice. She also asked that the interest and charges be frozen in order to be 
able to maintain her £100 monthly payments and enable the overall balance to be reduced 
and ultimately paid off. JD Williams wrote to Mrs V, declining her request which led to Mrs V 
raising a complaint about this with them.
JD Williams issued a final response letter in March 2020 not upholding the complaint. They 
explained that in line with the terms Mrs V had agreed to, back in February 1995, interest is 
applied to any outstanding balance, every 28 days. JD Williams added that since theyd 
received her complaint, Mrs V had placed orders on the account, which they explained 
would see the account balance and interest being charged, increase. They also said that if 
Mrs V was unable to pay more because she was having difficulty making payment, she 
could contact their account recoveries team and one of their advisers would be happy to 
discuss payment arrangements with her.
Mr B told us that they were able to pay off the account on 29 October 2021, from savings 
that they had built up. 
Our investigator issued her view not upholding the complaint on 23 November 2021. In her 
view she said:
This service looks to see that a business has acted positively and sympathetically to 
their customer, if theyre unable to make their minimum payment each month or have 
shown theyre experiencing financial difficulties. In that case wed expect the 
business to provide its customer with another option if they were struggling to make 
their payments. 
In this case, JD Williams did provide contact details for Mrs V, in the event she had 
difficulty making her monthly payments. They provided this information on more than 
one occasion, so our investigator felt theyd acted positively and sympathetically 
towards Mrs V.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view. He said that JD Williams hadnt offered them any 
options. Mr B asked for an ombudsmans decision on the complaint.
As JD Williams didnt provide our service with a business file on this complaint, our 
investigator gave her view on the basis of limited information provided by Mrs V and Mr B. It 
is disappointing that despite providing JD Williams with evidence of Mrs Vs referral of her 
complaint, in time to this service, on five separate occasions, in June 2020, March, August, 
October and November 2021 we still have not received their business file. As Mrs V has now 
been waiting for 18 months for a resolution to her complaint, Ive decided its appropriate to 
issue this final decision based on the limited information available to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where information is limited, as it is in this case, I need to make my decision on the balance 
of probabilities, in other words what I think is more likely to have happened. This is what I 
have done here.
I understand Mrs Vs disappointment at JD Williams refusal to suspend interest on her 
account, and her frustration about most of her monthly payment going towards covering the 
interest costs, rather than reducing the principle sum. 
However, as our investigator explained, Mrs V would have agreed to pay interest on the 
outstanding balance (which would include interest accrued up to that point) when she 
opened the credit account with JD Williams. So, in terms of the agreement between Mrs V 
and JD Williams, more likely than not, JD Williams were acting in line with the terms and 
conditions in requiring the interest to continue to accrue as per the terms and conditions. 
However, this service also has a fair and reasonable remit to consider whether in doing so 
JD Williams have acted fairly and reasonably in considering Mrs Vs request. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about consumer credit and shopping 
catalogue accounts on our website, including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry 
practice and law. And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mrs Vs complaint. 
Mrs V told us that she didnt ever miss a minimum payment and her circumstances hadnt 
changed so as to bring her to a place where she was in financial difficulty. In October 2021, 
Mrs V and Mr B were also able to repay all of the principal sum and interest owed, from their 
savings. I therefore dont think there was sufficient evidence in Mrs Vs management of her 
account, to alert JD Williams to a need to proactively offer her options in relation to repaying 
her debt with them. I also note, as our investigator pointed out, that JD Williams did provide 
Mrs V with details of their recoveries department and encouraged her to contact them if she 
needed to explore payment options. Taking account of Mrs Vs circumstances, I dont think 
JD Williams needed to do anything more. Although Mrs V suggested an option to 
JD Williams, they werent under any obligation to agree to Mrs Vs suggestion. So, for these 
reasons Im not upholding Mrs Vs complaint.
Ive also considered Mrs Vs concerns about the promotional material that JD Williams have 
continued to send to her, after she asked for interest to be frozen on her account. If Mrs V 
had asked JD Williams to stop sending her promotional material, then I would have expected them to promptly comply with her request. But, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that 
Mrs V has yet made such request, so Im not upholding this element of Mrs Vs complaint.
Im also sorry to hear that this situation has caused Mrs V stress and has had a negative 
impact on her health. However, as I havent concluded that JD Williams have done anything 
wrong in relation to the way its handled her account, I cant award any compensation to 
Mrs V.
I understand that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs V, but for the reasons 
Ive given above, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman