DRN-2663400
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy about the level of service that he received from Nationwide Building 
Society. Mr K is also unhappy that Nationwide Building Society closed his ISA account on 
the grounds that he had been abusive toward their staff.  
What happened
Mr K held an ISA account with Nationwide. In October 2020, Mr K raised a complaint with 
Nationwide about a number of issues, including several instances of what Mr K considered 
poor service from Nationwide staff.
Nationwide investigated Mr Ks complaint and issued a complaint response letter in 
November 2020. In their response, Nationwide said that they werent upholding the 
complaint points that Mr K had made regarding poor service. Additionally, Nationwide said 
that they believed that Mr K had been abusive to their staff and they informed Mr K that they 
would be closing his ISA account in 28 days time. Nationwide also explained that if Mr K 
hadnt arranged an ISA transfer within 28 days that they would post a cheque to Mr Ks 
address for the balance of the account at the time of closure.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response to his complaint or that Nationwide had 
chosen to close his account, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Nationwide had responded to Mr Ks 
complaint fairly and that it had been reasonable for them to make the decision to close his 
account. So, they didnt uphold the complaint either.
Mr K remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two aspects to this complaint which for the purposes of this letter I will consider in 
sequence. The first is the question of whether Nationwides response to Mr Ks complaint of 
October 2020 was fair and measured. The second concerns Nationwides decision to close 
Mr Ks account.
With regard Mr Ks initial complaint, having reviewed all the information available to me, its 
difficult for me to come to any conclusion other that Nationwides decision not to uphold Mr 
Ks complaint was a fair and measured one. I say this because several aspects of Mr Ks 
complaint reference processes that Nationwide are obliged to undertake  such as the 
requirement to ask identity verification questions  or reference measures implemented by 
Nationwide which this service would acknowledge as being reasonable, especially when 
considered in light of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic  such as the stationing of security to 
monitor the flow of people moving in and out of branch.
Nationwide did acknowledge that there an error was made with regard the deposit of a 
cheque for £100, but Im satisfied that this error was rectified in a timely manner and that 
there was minimal material impact to Mr K. 
Turning to the issue of Nationwide making the decision to close Mr Ks account, its generally 
the view of this service that its for a business to decide who it will choose to do business 
with. What this service would expect is that, if a decision is made by a business to end a 
relationship with a customer  such as was the case here  the business provides the 
customer fair notice of that decision in order that the customer has time to make alternative 
arrangements if necessary.
And I can see that Nationwide did that here. They informed Mr K that they would be closing 
his account and gave him 28-days notice to enable Mr K to arrange an ISA transfer if he so 
wished. Nationwide also advised Mr K that if no transfer were arranged that they would 
return the funds held in the account at the time of closure to Mr K in the form of a cheque 
mailed to his address.
I understand that Mr K doesnt feel that he was abusive towards Nationwide staff, but this is 
a subjective issue and one where the opinion of the person to whom the alleged abuse was 
directed carries significant weight. Its also notable that Nationwide are of the opinion that Mr 
K was abusive to several members of staff, rather than it being an isolated incident. 
    
It follows then that I cant conclude that Nationwide acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
choosing to close Mr Ks account, or in how they managed the closure of the account, 
including the period of notice that they gave Mr K to enable him to make other 
arrangements.
Given that I dont feel that Nationwide acted unfairly either in their response to Mr Ks initial 
complaint or their decision to close Mr Ks account, it also follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or asking Nationwide to take any further action at this time. I realise that this 
wont be the outcome that Mr K was wanting, but I hope that he can understand, given 
everything I have explained above, why I have made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman