DRN-2279690
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they were overcharged, over the years, for their home insurance 
with St Andrews Insurance (St Andrews) when they held the policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a buildings insurance policy in 1991, that was originally underwritten 
with another provider until 2003, when St Andrews became the underwriters of the policy. 
Each year, the cost of the policy increased at renewal, but Mr and Mrs H didnt shop around 
for more competitive quotes or contact St Andrews. In 2019, they received a quote for their 
home insurance which they felt was significantly lower than the previous years. So, they 
contacted St Andrews for an explanation.
Mr and Mrs H said that St Andrews told them that it couldnt initially provide any information 
regarding the quotation as it was system generated. But on further probing, it said that it 
recorded their home having 99 bedrooms, and this information had been passed over to St 
Andrews from the previous provider. It also told them that had they contacted St Andrews at 
renewal, then a personal quote wouldve been generated for them which couldve been 
discounted. 
Mr and Mrs H found other companies who could provide cheaper insurance, so declined the 
renewal quote and raised a complaint to St Andrews - on the basis that they had been loyal 
customers for many years. 
In its final response, it said that within the renewal documentation was a policy schedule 
which detailed Mr and Mrs Hs personal and property information. It said that it expected 
customers to review their documents to ensure the information held was correct and if there 
were any changes, it was the responsibility of the customer to correct it. It also said that Mr 
and Mrs H had the choice of looking elsewhere for cover or contacting it for a personal 
quote. 
St Andrews however, ultimately recognised that Mr and Mrs H had been loyal customers. It 
said that as Mr and Mrs H had trusted that the renewal quotes wouldve been competitive 
and whilst they couldve shopped around, it accepted that they were unlikely to do so. So, it 
offered to refund the amounts overpaid on the policy, which totalled £1,443. It also offered 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused. 
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with this outcome and referred the complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Her view was that St Andrews offer had been fair as it had refunded the overpayments of 
the premiums and this wouldve been in line with how she wouldve asked them to resolve 
the complaint  had it not made the offer. She also said that the £100 compensation for the 
distress caused was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs H, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this 
decision.
As our investigator has said, our role isnt to set the price of insurance. This is a commercial 
judgement and something for a business to decide. We cant tell insurers what factors they 
should consider when assessing the risk of a policyholder making a claim, or what price they 
should charge to cover that risk. But we can make sure policyholders have been treated 
fairly when insurers have priced their policies and that they havent been taken advantage of.
When a policyholder hasnt spoken to an insurer after receiving renewal quotes year after 
year and pays the renewal price without engaging with the insurer or shopping around for a 
cheaper quote, wed think its fair to say that they were inert. 
St Andrews said that it recognised that although Mr and Mrs H werent prevented from 
obtaining cover with another provider, they chose to stay with St Andrews out of loyalty. 
Consequently, to resolve this complaint, it offered a refund of the amounts paid above the 
2008 premiums until 2013, adjusted for inflation and insurance premium tax, plus interest. 
This meant for 2008 and 2009 £0 was refunded in respect of each year. For 2010, £71.52 
was refunded. For 2011, £70.03 was refunded. For 2012, £61.82 was refunded. For 2013, 
£62.70 was refunded. 
St Andrews also offered to refund the amounts paid above the target price from 2014 until 
the policy was cancelled in 2019. Which meant for 2014 the refund was £132.99, for 2015 it 
was £119.89, for 2016 it was £212.24, for 2017 it was £327.84 and for 2018 it was £383.97. 
Making the total amount of compensation from 2008 to 2018 of £1,443.  
Mr and Mrs Hs main issue, is whether the level of compensation offered was fair, given that 
they said that St Andrews had incorrect information that it based the premiums on. Which 
meant that it had overcharged them over the years, and they felt they couldve obtained 
cover elsewhere at a cheaper cost.
When deciding what would be a fair level of compensation, we would think that after the 
fourth renewal (which would be the fifth policy) St Andrews would have been aware that Mr 
and Mrs H werent engaging. So, it would be at this point, that we would expect St Andrews 
to refund anything that Mr and Mrs H had paid above the premium of the fourth renewal and 
the subsequent years and pay interest on the loss. 
St Andrews confirmed that when it took over underwriting the policy in 2001, it had relied on 
the information provided to it by the previous underwriters. It said that when Mr and Mrs H 
brought to its attention the correct information, it amended that information, but this didnt 
result in reducing the premiums. 
I have reviewed the premiums St Andrews charged and Im satisfied that it took into account 
the level of cover Mr and Mrs H required, the insurance risk and any changes to St Andrews 
general rates. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs H were unfairly charged until 2008. And having 
considered how St Andrews calculated the redress, this is how we as a service wouldve 
expected it to determine the level of compensation. Accordingly, I dont think St Andrews 
offer of £1,443 compensation is unreasonable. St Andrews has also recognised that this incident wouldve caused a level of distress and 
inconvenience for Mr and Mrs H and it has offered £100 to reflect this. Given the 
circumstances, I also think that this offer is fair. 
I appreciate how strongly Mr and Mrs H feel about their complaint. But the evidence Ive 
seen shows me that St Andrews treated Mr and Mrs H fairly and so Im not telling it to pay 
anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I think the offer from St Andrews Insurance to refund the 
overpayments of the premiums of £1,443 and to pay compensation of £100, for the distress 
and inconvenience caused, is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman