DRN-2893483
The complaint
Mr S says Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Cashfloat provided to Mr S in May 2020. The 
loan was for £500 and it was to be repaid in three instalments, the highest being £249.96. 
But Mr S was unable to maintain his repayments and a repayment plan was agreed with 
Cashfloat. From what I can see, a balance remains outstanding. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ss complaint and thought the loan shouldnt have been given. 
Cashfloat disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Cashfloat asked Mr S for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr S said his monthly income was £2,900 and Cashfloat verified this from a 
wage slip. Mr S said his monthly outgoings were £1,650. So this seemed to leave Mr S with 
sufficient funds to meet his monthly repayments for the loan from Cashfloat. 
But, as our adjudicator explained, Cashfloats credit check for Mr Ss loan would have shown 
that Mr S was having trouble managing his money:
Mr S had one late loan and one defaulted loan with other lenders;
Mr S had at least five other accounts that had defaulted and were with debt collection 
agencies.
Cashfloat said that Mr Ss defaults were historic, and his management of his finances had 
improved. But I think this doesnt account for the current defaulted accounts with debt 
collectors shown on the credit check. I think this should have alerted Cashfloat that Mr S was 
struggling financially.  
So I think Cashfloat should have realised that Mr S would be unable to sustainably repay this 
loan. And so I think it was wrong to have provided it.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr S, I require Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) to do the 
following:
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on his loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
offset this refund against any principal still owed and pay Mr S the remainder; or, if a 
balance remains owing, then agree an affordable repayment plan to clear this. 
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ss credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. I require 
Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) to carry out the redress set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman