DRN-2885071
The complaint
Mr D complains about the sale of a fixed sum loan he took out with Virgin Media Mobile 
Finance Limited (Virgin), to get a brand new mobile telephone.
Although Virgin provided the finance to Mr D, the sale of the loan and accompanying airtime 
contract was carried out by another company, who Ill refer to as A.
What happened
In October 2017, Mr D says he was contacted by an advisor from A, who wanted to talk 
about some deals they were offering. Mr D says he was offered a fixed sum loan to finance a 
brand new handset. As part of the deal, Mr D was offered a new SIM card with an airtime 
tariff costing around £1 a month.
Mr D says he told the advisor he was interested, but wanted the deal in writing first. So, he 
started an online chat from As website, where the same deal was offered to him again. Mr D 
accepted As offer of the loan for the handset and the SIM, but says he didnt really go on to 
use the handset, as his previous device worked better for him.
Around two years later, Mr D had finished paying the loan for his handset. When checking 
his monthly bill, Mr D says he realised that the monthly cost of his airtime tariff had increased 
to around £8. So, Mr D contacted Virgin to complain. Virgin initially upheld Mr Ds complaint 
and said the airtime tariff would reduce back to £1. However, upon checking his bill the 
following month, Mr D realised the tariff remained at £8.
Mr D brought his complaint to us and said A had given him incorrect information about the 
tariff, when he was given the fixed sum loan in October 2017. So, he didnt think Virgin had 
treated him fairly.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ds complaint and found that it was part of Mr Ds 
airtime contract with Virgin, that they could review the tariffs their customers had. But, she 
wasnt persuaded this was fully explained to Mr D, when he agreed to the loan. The 
investigator concluded the information about what could happen to the tariff, was key to Mr D 
accepting the fixed sum loan. So, she found that Virgin hadnt treated Mr D fairly and it was 
likely he wouldnt have entered into the agreement for the handset, had he been told the 
correct information.
The investigator concluded that Mr D had full use of the handset over the two years, even 
though he chose to use a different one. She also said Virgin were able to change the airtime 
tariff, so paying around £1 a month permanently wasnt ever available to Mr D. The 
investigator found that Mr D is now able to change his tariff. And that it isnt fair for Virgin to 
make up any difference between what hes currently paying and the cost he started paying in 
October 2017. The investigator also said that Virgin should pay Mr D £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He says Virgin shouldnt be able to treat 
customers the way they treated him. Mr D says he hasnt yet changed tariffs, because Virgin 
should honour the deal they gave to him in October 2017.
The investigator didnt change her conclusions and Mr Ds case has now been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 
Mr D acquired the handset through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 56 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 56) has the effect of making the advisor from A the agent of Virgin 
during the antecedent negotiations. 
These negotiations were in the lead up to Mr D entering into the loan agreement, starting 
from when he first spoke to an advisor. But essentially, this means Virgin are responsible for 
the acts or omissions of the advisor from A in relation to the sale of the handset to Mr D. In 
other words, Virgin are responsible for the things the advisor said, did, didnt say, or didnt do 
during the sales process.
However, its not enough to say any acts or omissions by A meant that Mr D had been 
misled into taking the fixed sum loan. Rather, it has to be at least one act or omission about 
a key feature of the airtime deal, which convinced Mr D to agree to the borrowing.
Mr D has provided a copy of the webchat he had with the advisor from A in October 2017. In 
the webchat, I can see that Mr D mentions he had previously spoken to a different advisor in 
a telephone call about the deal he was interested in. So, I think A spoke to Mr D on more 
than one occasion about the deal for the handset and the SIM card.
The webchat goes on to talk more about the cost of the handset and the airtime tariff. In 
particular, the advisor explains:
Yes. That is correct. After two years, you will only be charge(sic) for £1 as you 
continue your contract on us.
It ends with the advisor asking Mr D if he wants A to process the order to get the handset 
delivered in the following days.
Virgin have explained to us that the terms and conditions of Mr Ds airtime agreement allow 
for them to review all tariffs. But, from what I can see from the evidence, I think Mr D was 
told the airtime deal for the SIM card would last beyond the two year term of the loan for the 
handset. Mr D now knows this was incorrect information.
Mr D says it was the deal for the SIM card which appealed to him in 2017, rather than the 
handset. Im persuaded by that because Mr D also says he stopped using the new handset 
after a couple of months, in favour of an older handset, which worked better for him. So, I 
think the details of the SIM card deal were a key feature which convinced Mr D that he 
wanted to enter the fixed sum loan agreement.
In all the circumstances, I think A misrepresented the SIM card deal to Mr D and it was that 
particular feature which resulted in Mr D applying for the loan for the handset. So, given what Ive said about Virgins responsibility under section 56, I dont think Virgin treated Mr D fairly 
when he agreed to the borrowing in October 2017.
Mr Ds usage of the phone and distress and inconvenience
Ive concluded that the SIM card deal wasnt available to Mr D, beyond the two year term of 
his fixed sum loan. Mr D has explained that Virgin should either honour what they told him, 
or compensate him for the difference between the two tariffs, since Virgin ended his previous 
tariff.
Given what Ive said about the SIM card deal not being available to Mr D after Virgin ended 
it, I think this means he wasnt eligible to carry on with that tariff permanently. I acknowledge 
why Mr D would like to pay a lower cost for the airtime than he currently is, and why thats 
beneficial to him. But I dont think its fair to require Virgin to put a SIM card deal in place, 
which wasnt on offer to Mr D, when his tariff increased.
Normally, to put things right, wed ask Virgin to put Mr D back in the position hed have been 
in, had the incorrect information not been given to him. Here, Ive concluded that I dont think 
Mr D would have entered the fixed sum loan agreement. So, it follows that Mr D might return 
the handset to Virgin, but pay for any usage hes had from it and the airtime contact.
Mr D has explained that he stopped using the handset after a couple of months, in favour of 
an older mobile telephone he already had. I accept Mr D was able to do this, but I think Mr D 
had access to the handset from Virgin, or had the opportunity to make use of it. 
Having considered everything, I think its fair that Mr D pays for the usage hes had from the 
handset. I think Mr D had use of the handset from when the agreement was taken out with 
Virgin, to when it ended around two years later. I also think the same can be said for the 
airtime contract.
I dont think its practical or convenient for Mr D to return the handset back to Virgin now. 
From what Ive seen, Mr D has completed the repayments due under the agreement, which 
means the handset is his to do with as he wishes. So, Ive gone on to consider the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr D.
Mr D first spoke to Virgin in February 2020, about the increase of the cost of his airtime tariff. 
About a month later, Virgin told Mr D, his deal of around £1 a month would remain. This was 
incorrect and by May 2020, Virgin had explained to Mr D that the tariff he was on, was no 
longer available. I can see from Virgins notes, that they offered Mr D alternative tariffs, but 
he has yet to take any action over this.
I think Mr D has been able to take up a new airtime deal, or move to a different provider, 
since May 2020. This is when he discovered the £1 airtime tariff wasnt on offer to him. I 
acknowledge where Mr D says he wanted an outcome with his case, before deciding what to 
do. But, I dont think the outcome of Mr Ds complaint has a bearing on his tariff moving 
forward.
Overall, I think Mr D was given incorrect information when he first raised his concerns about 
the increase in the cost of the airtime in February 2020. But, I think Virgin put that right after 
around three months. So, I think Mr D was able to decide what to do about his airtime tariff 
fairly soon after he had first raised his concerns.
I accept Mr D has written to Virgin several times to request further information. And I agree 
he must have found it frustrating to do so. But, in all the circumstances, I think the offer of £50 made by Virgin is fair and reasonable, when looking at the impact of the distress and 
inconvenience Mr D was caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Virgin Media Mobile Finance 
Limited to pay Mr D £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman