DRN-3475234
The complaint
Ms K complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc caused delays in transferring her general 
investment account GIA and her investment ISA ISA causing her financial loss. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Below, I have highlighted some key dates I think are relevant to the complaint:
24 May 2021 the transfer request was received by Barclays from the third party  
Ms K was advised it could take up to 30 days to complete. 
22 August 2021 the ISA transfer completed.
9 September 2021 the GIA transfer completed. 
Barclays looked into Ms Ks concerns, it acknowledged its errors and along with an apology, 
offered £350 compensation for what happened. Our investigator thought this offer was fair 
and reasonable, he also concluded that Ms K hadnt incurred a financial loss as a result of 
Barclays errors. However, Ms K is seeking an increased amount of compensation. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons: 
All parties agree that there was a delay in transferring Ms Ks GIA and ISA to another 
provider. When a business has delayed a transfer I firstly need to consider if there was any 
financial impact. From what Ive seen, Ms K was told her transfer should be complete within 
30 days. Barclays received the request from the other provider on 24 May 2021, so I think it 
was reasonable for Ms K to expect her transfer to complete by around 24 June 2021. But the 
ISA transfer didnt complete until August 2021 and the GIA transfer didnt complete until 
September 2021. I can see that the funds in Ms Ks GIA account were transferred in-specie 
which due to the nature of the transfer can typically take longer. Nonetheless, the transfer 
completed significantly later than the timescales Barclays gave to Ms K. 
Barclays has accepted it made several errors which caused the transfers to take much 
longer than they should have, so I need to consider the impact this had on 
Ms K. I think Barclays couldve transferred Ms Ks funds much quicker than it did and 
therefore, Ive considered whether she suffered any financial loss because of Barclays 
delays. 
Ms Ks GIA account was transferred in-specie which meant that she wasnt out of the 
market whilst the transfer process was taking place. I dont dispute that it wouldve been 
frustrating for Ms K to not have access to her funds at a time she expected to. I appreciate 
Ms K has said due to Barclays delays she has lost out on the opportunity to sell shares at a 
time that was more favourable. Ms K has said the shares lost value from when the transfer 
shouldve completed in June 2021 to when it eventually completed in September 2021. Ive 
thought about this and considered 
Ms Ks actions following the transfer. Ms K did sell and buy back shares but this didnt 
happen until January 2022 and so Im not persuaded Ms K had the intention to imminently 
sell her shares following the transfer. Ive also not seen anything else to indicate this was her 
intention to do so whilst the shares were transferring.  
On balance, I think the evidence supports that Ms K had no specific intention to buy or sell 
immediately on transfer. I think its more likely than not this was decided at a later point in 
time. Under these circumstances I cant fairly say that Ms K has lost out on any specific 
opportunity because of Barclays mistake. So, I wont be asking it to compensate Ms K for 
any financial loss she says shes made. 
Nonetheless, I accept Barclays couldve caried out the transfer more quickly. It didnt 
communicate effectively with Ms K to manage her expectations about how long the transfer 
was going to take and Im satisfied there was a delay as well as poor customer service. Ms K 
has said the delays caused her stress and anxiety  shes also said she suffered panic 
attacks and wasnt given any assurances. 
I empathize with Ms Ks trouble and upset; effectively Ms K was left feeling stressed and 
anxious about what was happening. And I think Barclays could have sorted things out much 
sooner had it handled the transfer more effectively. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Barclays has made errors, it has also caused Ms K distress and 
inconvenience. I find that a payment of £350 is fair compensation to reflect the impact on Ms 
K of the admitted shortcomings on the part of Barclays and the poor customer service. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £350 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay £350. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman