DRN-2059016
The complaint
Miss L complains that the loan provided to her by MYJAR Limited (MyJar) wasnt 
affordable.
What happened
This complaint is about the £800 instalment loan MyJar provided to Miss L. She said that 
she had to borrow more to make the repayments and that had proper checks been carried 
out then MyJar would have realised that the loan wasnt affordable. 
MyJar said that when Miss L applied for the loan it undertook a number of checks including 
gathering information from Miss L and from external sources such as a credit reference 
agency check. It said its checks suggested the loan was appropriate. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. 
Miss L didnt accept our adjudicators view. She said that at the time of the loan she had 
other loans outstanding and a history of short-term borrowing. She said she was having to 
borrow more to pay her previous loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MyJar needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Miss L 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MyJar was required to establish 
whether Miss L could sustainably repay her loan - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint.
In this case Miss L took out one loan with MyJar. This was for £800 and was repayable over 
12 monthly instalments, each of around £120. Given the size and duration of the loan, I think 
it reasonable that MyJar gathered information about Miss Ls income and expenses 
(including her credit commitments) before the loan was provided.
I have looked at the information Miss L provided at the time of her application and can see 
that a monthly income of £2,500 is initially noted and then this was updated to £2,750. The 
income figure of £2,500 was used in the assessment. I think it reasonable that MyJar relied 
on the information Miss L provided about her income and note that it also carried out a 
validation check. Having looked at Miss Ls bank statements from the time the income 
appears accurate. 
Miss L also provided information about her expenses and MyJar has explained it also uses 
other data sources as well. In the assessment, Miss Ls monthly housing costs are recorded 
as £800 and her credit repayments as £500. There is also a note of other expenses being 
£100 although MyJar has explained that it carried out a calculation to establish a monthly 
expense amount which was higher than the amount provided by Miss L. MyJar calculated 
Miss Ls monthly disposable income and has explained that a customer is allowed up to 40% 
of the calculated disposable income which gave an amount of just over £300 for Miss L.
While I note the comments Miss L has made about her other credit commitments at the time, 
given this was her first loan with MyJar and noting the repayment amounts compared to her 
monthly income, I find the checks carried out were proportionate. As these suggested that 
the loan repayments were affordable for Miss L, I do not find that MyJar did anything wrong 
by providing this loan to Miss L. Because of this, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against MYJAR Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020. 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman