DRN-3229818
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
when the payment holiday on his loan came to an end.
What happened
Mr C has a personal loan with Barclays. In October 2020, Mr C was approved a three-month 
payment holiday on his loan which was due to end in January 2021. In early January 2021, 
Mr C says he contacted Barclays to enquire about a payment holiday extension. He says he 
was told that he would receive more information with a simple code or link to use to extend 
the payment holiday.
Mr C says he didnt receive this information, but rather received details that his payments 
would resume in early February 2021. So, he contacted Barclays again near the end of 
January 2021.
During the call, Mr C was approved for a further payment holiday. He says he was told his 
existing direct debit needed to be cancelled to ensure payment wouldnt be taken in a few 
days time. Mr C says he did cancel the upcoming direct debit for the loan repayment as he 
couldnt afford to pay it. Barclays say they also told Mr C in the call that he would need to set 
up a standing order before his next payment was due in May 2021.
In April 2021, Mr C received a letter and a text message informing him that his payment 
holiday was ending soon and that his payments would resume in early May 2021. Barclays 
say they also told Mr C that he would need to reinstate his direct debit if it has been 
cancelled.
Near the end of May 2021, Mr C says that he noticed in his banking app that he had missed 
the payment date of his loan. He says that when he spoke to Barclays, they only attempted 
to take payment around mid-May. He explained that while it was partially an oversight by him 
of not noticing he hadnt made a repayment, he also feels he wasnt reminded to set up 
another direct debit.
Mr C says he is happy to continue repayments on his loan, but as it was required to make 
two payments close together  one for his regular monthly repayment and the other for the 
missed May 2021 payment, he asked if the missed payment could be spread across the 
remaining term of the loan or added on to the end of the term. Mr C says Barclays declined 
and said the missed May repayment was due.
Mr C complained to Barclays. Barclays say they gave Mr C enough notice that a direct debit 
would need to be set up in time for the May repayment. They also say that it is the 
customers responsibility to make sure their loan payments are made on time. So, they say 
Mr C should contact their collections team to arrange clearing the arrears now appearing on 
his loan with them.
Mr C, unhappy with Barclays response, brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator found that Barclays hadnt done anything unfair or unreasonable. He explained 
that Barclays did tell Mr C by letter that his direct debit had been cancelled. He says they 
also followed up with another letter to say when his payment holiday was due to end, and 
that, if his direct debit had been cancelled, he would need to set a new one up. So, the 
investigator believes Barclays gave a reasonable amount of notice to Mr C to be aware that 
he would need to reinstate a direct debit to be able to repay his loan amount.
Mr C disagreed and outlined guidance he has read on how lenders should treat its 
customers experiencing financial difficulty. And so, this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Mr C wished to extend his payment holiday in January 2021, and this was approved by 
Barclays. But as it was approved within a few days of his next scheduled repayment, he 
decided to cancel his direct debit. This was to ensure payment would not be made in early 
February 2021 and he could benefit from the payment holiday extension given to him. I can 
see that a letter dated 29 January 2021 was sent to Mr C confirming that his direct debit was 
cancelled. 
Another letter dated 12 April 2021 was sent to Mr C informing him that his payment holiday 
was coming to an end and that hell need to make payment by 2 May 2021. Within that same 
letter, I can see under a section called, What do you need to do next, it says:
If you cancelled your Direct Debit, youll need to set up a new one at least 14 days before 
your next payment is due. You can do this by calling us on.
Barclays has also shown us a text message that was sent to Mr C on 19 April 2021 that 
explains that his payment holiday would end in around two weeks and that theyve sent him 
a letter to let him know what happens next.
So, considering the letters and text message sent to Mr C prior to his payment holiday 
coming to an end, I think Barclays has taken reasonable steps to make Mr C aware when he 
was due to make a repayment and what he would need to do in order to pay it.
Mr C has told us that he didnt notice his repayment didnt commence in early May 2021 as 
he thought it should have. He has also explained that he feels Barclays have acted unfairly 
by taking around 26 days to inform him about his missed repayment. Barclays say that it is 
Mr Cs responsibility to ensure payments are made on time.
I cant say that Barclays has acted unreasonably in this instance. It is Mr Cs responsibility to 
ensure he makes payments on time, and as Ive said above, Barclays took reasonable steps 
to remind him of his need to set up another direct debit if it has been cancelled.
Mr C also believes businesses should work with their customers to support them if they are 
in financial difficulty as set out in guidelines published by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Barclays has a duty to treat Mr C positively and sympathetically once it became aware he 
was experiencing financial difficulties. And I think Barclays has done so, by giving Mr C the 
opportunity of approximately a six-month payment holiday on his loan repayments and 
extending the term of the loan to allow him to pay the deferred monthly payments at the end. Ive also noted that Barclays told Mr C in their final response to contact the collections team 
to discuss clearing his arrears.
In these circumstances, I cant say Barclays needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman