DRN-1912877
The complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about a lifetime mortgage she and her late husband took out in 2003 
with Aviva Equity Release UK Limited. She says she wasnt aware of the early repayment 
charge (ERC) when she decided to sell her home after her husbands death. She doesnt 
think this exit penalty is fair as it amounts to over £60,000.
What happened
Mrs H and her late husband took out a lifetime mortgage on a jointly owned property in 2003. 
Mrs H also owned another property in her sole name. The mortgage was sold to them by a 
firm of independent financial advisers (IFA). 
Following Mr Hs death, Mrs H decided she wanted to sell the jointly owned property and live 
permanently in her other property. She says she discovered the early repayment charge 
when she started looking into selling. She has said she thinks the terms and conditions are 
obtuse and confusing, with many ifs and buts and maybes. She complained to Aviva.
Aviva explained that it isnt responsible for the sale of the mortgage and she should refer her 
concerns about the advice shed received to the selling IFA. In relation to the ERC, it 
explained why it had been applied and how it was calculated. It said the ERC was payable 
unless Mrs H had left the property permanently and met its criteria for needing long term 
care.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Hs complaint and explained to her that her 
complaint about the suitability of the mortgage for her circumstances wasnt Avivas 
responsibility as it was sold by an IFA. Mrs H accepted this, so the investigator went on to 
consider her concerns about the ERC. He didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mrs H didnt accept the investigators conclusions and reiterated her concerns about the 
fairness of the ERC in the situation where the surviving partner didnt want to keep the 
property or couldnt afford to do so. She asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mrs H has accepted the investigators conclusion that Aviva isnt responsible for 
the sale of the mortgage and the advice Mrs H received. For completeness I have reviewed 
this issue and I agree with the investigators conclusions  the responsibility for the suitability 
of the mortgage for Mrs H is the selling IFAs. 
Whilst I wont comment on the suitability of the advice Mrs Hs IFA gave her, I will make 
some comments on the process that should have been gone through at the time of the sale 
to provide some context to my findings. The key elements of the mortgage and how it 
worked should have been explained to her by the IFA. This included what would happen if 
Mr and Mrs H wanted to sell the property at any point in the future; that there could be an 
ERC applied, in what circumstances it would be applied and how the amount was calculated. 
When selecting a mortgage product for a consumer, it would be for the adviser to explore the 
consumers circumstances, needs and requirements to ensure an appropriate product was 
selected.
I note Mrs H has referenced a newspaper article in which it was stated that new customers 
of Aviva can obtain mortgages with fixed term ERCs and that such mortgages are available 
from other providers. Whilst I am not fully aware of the detail of Avivas current range of 
mortgage products, I do know that other lenders have had fixed term ERC products available 
for some time. There is nothing inherently wrong with a mortgage with an ERC that lasts for 
the entire term. However, such an arrangement may not be suitable for all consumers, but 
that would be a consideration of the advice process. 
I am unable to ask Aviva to waive the ERC if what it is proposing to charge is in line with the 
agreement Mr and Mrs H signed in 2003. The mortgage agreement they signed up to makes 
it clear that it is designed to be in place for the remainder of their lives and if it is paid off 
before death or a move to care, an ERC would be chargeable.  It is not unreasonable or 
unfair that Aviva requires the terms and conditions of the agreement to be complied with.  
I know Mrs H thinks the ERC is a punitive penalty and that the amount Aviva wants paid as 
the ERC is too high. ERCs are commonly used and are designed as a way for a lender to 
hedge against losses it can suffer if a contract is terminated early. Aviva set this out in the 
mortgage documentation, and it is entitled to make a charge in line with what it said it would 
do.
I understand Mrs H thinks the ERC is unfair, but whilst I can sympathise with her situation, 
I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong in asking Mrs H to comply with the contract she 
agreed to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 
11 September 2020.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman