DRN-3285666
The complaint
Mr N complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited turned down his private medical insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mr N took out the policy on 17 March 2020 for him and his wife. It was taken out on a 
moratorium basis. That meant that they didnt have cover for claims relating to pre-existing 
conditions within the last three years. 
On 30 March 2020, Mr N called AXA to make a claim. He wanted to see a dermatologist as 
he was concerned about a spot on his face. AXA confirmed that Mr N would need a GP 
referral. 
In June 2020, Mr Ns GP advised him that the spot was a haemangioma. 
In August 2020, Mr N had a consultation with a dermatologist. The dermatologist 
recommended the spot be removed as it was thought Mr N may have skin cancer. The 
procedure was arranged for 14 August 2020. AXA wanted more medical information before it 
authorised the procedure.
Mr N went ahead with the procedure on 14 August 2020 anyway. He was then diagnosed 
with skin cancer on 28 August 2020. 
AXA said it wasnt willing to pay for the treatment that Mr N had on 14 August 2020. It said 
the spot had been present before the policy was taken out, and so AXA thought the claim fell 
under the moratorium. 
Unfortunately, AXA paid the claim in error on 27 August 2020. It advised Mr N this had been 
paid in error, and confirmed it would recoup the payment. 
Unhappy with AXAs decision not to cover his treatment, Mr N brought a complaint to this 
service. He said hed been diagnosed with a haemangioma, and it was only in June 2020 
that the spot changed in size and colour and became cancerous. 
Ultimately, our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it had 
been reasonable for AXA to conclude that Mr Ns claim fell under the moratorium.
Mr N didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the moratorium, Mr N doesnt have cover for pre-existing conditions in the last three 
years.
The policy defines pre-existing condition as:
any disease, illness or injury for which:
you have received medication, advice or treatment; or
you have experienced symptoms;
whether the condition has been diagnosed or not in the three yearsbefore the start of your 
cover.
Mr N first noticed a spot on his face before he took out the policy. When he called AXA in 
March 2020 to ask if it would authorise a consultation with a dermatologist, he explained that 
he occasionally gets spots, but was concerned about this one because after bleeding, a 
scab had formed but hadnt fallen off. Mr N confirmed hed experienced skin cancer 
previously.
In June 2020, Mr Ns GP thought he had a haemangioma on his right cheek.
Mr Ns consultant dermatologist (Dr C) said he saw Mr N on 8 August 2020. He explained 
that Mr N had developed a lesion on his right upper cheek which started in March and had 
grown fairly quickly to be about a centimetre across. Dr C said it was a darkly pigmented 
nodule which on dermoscopy did show homogeneous colour with no features to suggest a 
benign haemangioma. He said whilst this may still be the diagnosis, he was concerned that it 
might be a nodular melanoma and said that it needed urgent excision and histology. 
After Mr Ns lesion was removed, Dr Cs suspicions were confirmed that it was a malignant 
melanoma.
Mr N is not suggesting that his haemangioma developed into skin cancer. However, he says 
that the surrounding skin cells of a haemangioma can become cancerous, and he thinks this 
is what happened. In Mr Ns view, he had two separate conditions, and says it was only the 
haemangioma that was present before he took out the policy.
I think its apparent from Dr Cs comments that the lesion was initially thought to be a benign 
haemangioma, however, he thought it was a melanoma. Dr C didnt suggest there was still a 
haemangioma, and that the area surrounding this was a melanoma. So I dont think Mr N 
has shown that there were two separate conditions.
Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied it was reasonable for AXA to conclude that 
Mr N was experiencing a symptom of his condition of skin cancer before the policy started, 
and therefore his claim falls under the moratorium.
Mr N later told this service that the spot hed told AXA about in March 2020 was located in 
an entirely different place to the melanoma. He says the melanoma was on his right cheek, 
but the spot hed told AXA about in March 2020 was located to the left side of his nose. 
In Mr Ns complaint, he said that his GP had examined a small spot hed had on his face 
since February/March 2020, and the GP had thought it was a haemangioma. I can therefore 
understand why AXA thought the spot he was referring to was the same one that hed called 
AXA about in March 2020. Though even if there were two different spots that appeared 
around February/March 2020, I dont think this changes anything. I say that because Mr N 
accepts that the spot which was thought to be a haemangioma (and was later found to be 
skin cancer) existed before he took out the policy. I therefore remain satisfied that this falls 
under the moratorium. AXA paid £1,172 for Mr Ns claim in error. However, shortly after doing so, it advised him 
that this had been paid in error and that it would be recouping the payment (presumably from 
the provider). AXA was entitled to do this, as the claim wasnt eligible. I dont find that Mr N 
was caused any inconvenience by AXAs error.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman