DRN-2276362
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the decision by The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited 
(Shepherds) to decline his claim under his income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S was a director of, and employed by, a company which provided engineering services. 
He held an income protection policy with Shepherds. The policy would pay a regular benefit, 
after a waiting period of two weeks, in the event that Mr S was unable to work due to illness 
or injury.
In April 2020, Mr S made a claim to Shepherds. He said he was unable to work due to 
stress.
After obtaining further information, including from Mr Ss GP, Shepherds declined the claim. 
It considered the reason for Mr S suffering a loss of income was not illness but was the 
effects of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr S complained to Shepherds about its decision but it wouldnt change its position. Mr S 
therefore referred his complaint to us. He considered that under the terms of the policy he 
was eligible to receive benefit.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In her opinion, it 
had been fair for Shepherds to decline the claim.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings. He said his stress started in February 2020 as 
he watched his wifes business become destroyed through the effect of Covid-19 and that 
this eventually caused him to be signed off work which meant he could no longer earn 
money through his own business. He said that if the GP notes said otherwise, it was 
because he hadnt been able to describe matters properly at the time due to his stress. 
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy states that benefit will be paid:
If you are incapacitated such that you are not able to do your "own occupation" due to 
physical or mental illness or injury and as a result have a complete or partial loss of income
This means that it is not enough for Mr S simply to show he was too ill to perform his 
occupation; he must also be able to show that his illness resulted in a loss of income.
The UK entered lockdown due to Covid-19 on 23 March 2020.
Mr S phoned his GP on 6 April 2020. The entry reads:
recently lost job due to coronavirus pandemic. Getting stressed re: finances 
The GP certified him as unfit to work due to stress.
Mr S had further consultations with his GP during April and May 2020 in which he continued 
to refer to the fact he was finding it hard to cope since losing his job.
Furthermore, when Shepherds asked Mr S for further details of his stress, he said it was 
caused by:
Immediate loss of income for both myself and my wife because of Covid-19
 He further explained:
I have not had, or been able to get, work because of the shutdown. That, along with my wife 
losing her income for the same reason, is what triggered the stress.
I consider the evidence indicates that it was the lockdown due to Covid-19 which caused 
Mr S (and his wife) to have no work and hence no income. This resulted in him becoming 
stressed. However, while the stress may have meant he was unable to perform his 
occupation, by this time he had no work and hence no income in any case. So I dont 
consider that Mr S can reasonably be said to have been deprived of income by illness.
Mr S has sought to argue that it was his wifes loss of income, rather than his own, which 
caused him to become stressed. However, this isnt borne out by the evidence. Instead, it 
appears that if Mr S hadnt first suffered a loss of income through an inability of his company 
to obtain work, he wouldnt have become ill. And while I sympathise with him, the policy is 
there to cover loss of income due to illness and not for other reasons.
After taking everything into account, I consider it was fair for Shepherds to decline Mr Ss 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman