DRN-2840336
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his motor 
policy as if it never existed and it failed to return his keys and log book so he could release his car 
from the police salvage yard which meant his car was then needlessly destroyed. 
  
What happened
Mr Bs car was stolen in October 2019. He made a claim to Advantage and it asked him to 
send in his keys and log book in the normal way for the purposes of a theft claim.
Advantage then went through the process of validating Mr Bs claim. It said it found out he 
had failed to disclose some speeding points on his licence. It said had it known this it 
wouldnt have offered him a policy, so it cancelled his policy as if it had never existed on 
November 2019 as in it voided it.
This meant he had no cover for the theft of his car. 
However, in February 2020, the police said they had recovered Mr Bs car and had it in 
storage. And he should collect it within 14 days or otherwise it would be destroyed. In order 
to release the car, the police said Mr B needed to show his log book and obviously he would 
need his keys also. Mr B asked Advantage to return both him at least twice. Advantage 
failed to do this so Mr Bs car was then destroyed on 6 April 2020.
Mr B complained about his policy being cancelled and the fact that Advantage failed to 
return his keys and log book ensuring his car was destroyed needlessly. Advantage didnt 
think it had done anything wrong in cancelling his policy. It agreed it had delayed in turning 
Mr Bs keys and logbook. But it didnt think Mr B would have collected his car. So, it decided 
to pay him the salvage value of his car in the sum of £147.50 and it paid him compensation 
of £150.
Mr B didnt think this was reasonable and brought his complaint to us. The investigator was 
of the view that Advantage didnt do anything wrong in cancelling his policy. But she thought 
Advantage should have paid Mr B the market value of his car, which she thought was 
around £1,563 at the date it was destroyed. She thought as Mr B would have had to pay the 
police the £290 fee then that sum should be deducted from this market value plus the 
salvage value Advantage had already paid.
Advantage said in March 2021 that it would get the police to release photos of the car to 
show it was damaged so that paying the salvage value was reasonable. This further 
evidence never materialised so Mr Bs complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in part. Along the same lines as the 
investigator suggested. Ill now explain why.
First, Ill consider the cancellation of the policy. As the investigator explained the law 
covering this is called the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). As Advantage has shown us that Mr B didnt answer the question concerning 
driving related offences correctly, that means it is a qualifying misrepresentation under this 
Act. Mr B answered no to having any such offences on his driving record in the last five 
years, whereas in fact he had two speeding offences within that time period.
Advantage have also shown us that its underwriting guide wouldnt have permitted it have 
offered Mr B a policy had he answered the question correctly and disclosed the two 
speeding offences. So, on this basis I consider Advantage hasnt done anything wrong in 
cancelling Mr Bs policy as if it never existed. I also consider it was reasonable for 
Advantage to consider this misrepresentation as careless meaning that it refunded the 
premiums paid back to Mr B.
So that effectively left Mr B with no cover for his stolen car. However, his car was recovered 
by the police in February 2020. And the police told Mr B they could release his car to him on 
payment of the required fee, but it needed to see his log book. Mr B had given the log book 
and his keys to Advantage back in November 2019. He asked it for their return in February 
and again in March 2020, but Advantage didnt return the log and keys to Mr B. This meant 
his car was destroyed on 6 April 2021.
Im not persuaded by the various arguments Advantage has put forward as to why it believes 
that Mr B would never have collected his car or that he wouldnt have paid the fee. And nor 
do I consider it at all fair or reasonable that Advantage decided this then absolved it of all 
responsibility in returning Mr Bs property to him when he asked for it. There was no policy in 
place, given Advantage voided it in November 2019 and I consider once that was 
ascertained, Advantage should have then returned any property it had belonging to Mr B. I 
find it unreasonable that it just kept it and I find it even more unreasonable that once it was 
known the car had been recovered that it simply failed to then return Mr Bs property to him 
when requested.  
There is no worthwhile evidence of the extent of the damage to Mr Bs car except that it was 
minor and that it was to the front end of his car. I dont consider Advantages engineers 
evidence at all persuasive since he didnt look at the car and furthermore the issue of 
whether it was a write off or not is wholly irrelevant since Advantage were no longer insuring 
the car and therefore it had no legal interest in his car at all. In legal terms it had no business 
attempting to value his car in this way at all, given it had reasonably in my view voided the 
policy covering it. 
So, the fact that Advantage didnt return Mr Bs property, namely his log book and keys did 
mean it was far more difficult for Mr B to get his car back. Unlike Advantages experience, 
theres no evidence to show Mr B routinely dealt with recovering stolen cars from police 
pounds and understood all the various ways of getting around not having a log book or 
indeed the keys to the car in order to have the car released. 
Consequently, I find that Advantages failure to return the log book and the keys to Mr B 
when he asked it for them, caused his car to be needlessly destroyed. Therefore, I consider 
its fair that Advantage now pays Mr B the market value of his car, at the time the police 
destroyed it, less the fee Mr B would have had to pay to the police and less the salvage 
value it has already paid Mr B. I consider the figure of £1,125.50 as suggested by the investigator to be fair and reasonable in these circumstances.  It should add interest to this 
sum too. 
Advantage has paid Mr B compensation in the sum of £150 which I consider is reasonable 
here, given the issue was complicated by Mr Bs own failure to disclose his speeding 
offences.
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I partially uphold this complaint.
I now require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr B the sum of £1,125.50.
Adding interest of 8% simple per year from the date Mr Bs car was recovered by the 
police to the date it pays him. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, 
appropriate documentation should be provided to Mr B for HMRC purposes. 
Pay Mr B £150 compensation if it hasnt done so already.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman