DRN-3994734
The complaint
Miss M complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss Ms complaint is about a loan provided by Loans 2 Go. The loan was advanced in 
September 2022 for £1210 over a period of 24 months with monthly repayments of £162.95.
Miss M says the lending was irresponsible because she had other borrowing at the time 
which meant she was unable to afford the repayments.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. He said Loans 2 Go hadnt made a fair 
lending decision based on the results of the checks it carried out.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending, including 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, are set out on this services website. 
Ive had this approach in mind when considering Miss Ms complaint.
Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to make 
sure Miss M could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such a how much was 
being lent, the length of the agreement, the frequency and amount of repayments, the total 
amount repayable and what Loans 2 Gio knew about Miss M at the time she applied for the 
loan.
Loans 2 Go have provided evidence to show that it carried out checks before it approved the 
loan. Miss M declared a monthly income of £2050 when she applied for the loan. Loans 2 
Go verified this using an online verification tool. It looked at Miss Ms credit file and 
calculated her expenditure at around £1674, leaving her with around £375 monthly 
disposable income, which Loans 2 Go felt was sufficient to make the loan repayments of 
£162.95 affordable.
The checks carried out on Miss Ms credit file showed that she had five defaults at the time 
she applied for the loan. Of these, three defaults were still outstanding. The credit checks 
showed that Miss M had one credit card and one unsecured loan. Repayments of total 
existing credit commitments was around £350 per month. 
Im satisfied that the checks carried out were reasonable and proportionate. Ive gone on to 
consider whether the decision to lend was fair, taking into account the information Loans 2 
Go had gathered.
The number of defaults on Miss Ms credit file should have alerted Loans 2 Go to the fact 
that Miss M was having difficulty managing her finances, and that she was unlikely to be 
able to sustainably repay the loan. I appreciate that some of the defaults were registered 
some time before the application for the loan. However, I still think the significant number of 
defaults should have put Loans 2 Go on notice that there might be affordability issues.
Ive also taken into account Miss Ms income and the proportion of her income which was 
being used to repay existing consumer credit commitments. Before the loan was approved, 
Miss M was using a significant amount of her monthly income to repay debt. After the loan 
was approved, Miss M was using around 25% of her income to repay credit, which, in the 
context of her overall financial circumstances, wasnt likely to be sustainable.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Loans 2 Go acted responsibly when it approved 
the loan.
Putting things right
To put things right, Loans 2 Go Limited must:
Add up the total amount of money Miss M received as a result of being given the loan. 
Deduct the repayments made by Miss M from this amount.
(a)if this results in Miss M having paid more than she received, any overpayments should be 
refunded along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date the overpayments were 
made to the date of settlement*
(b)if any capital balance remains outstanding, Loans 2 Go must arrange an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss M
Remove any negative information relating to the loan from Miss Ms credit file
*HMRC require Loans 2 Go to take tax off this interest. Loans 2 Go must give Miss M a 
certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman