DRN-3130082
The complaint
 Mr M has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) acted irresponsibly by 
increasing the limit on his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty and that the fees 
charged were unfair.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that RBS should have stopped 
charging overdraft fees from 28 November 2019 as by this point it was clear Mr M was in 
financial difficulty and RBS shouldnt have accepted Mr Ms request of an overdraft limit 
increase. 
RBS didnt accept the adjudicators view but as a gesture of goodwill it was prepared to 
make an offer in-line with the adjudicators recommendation but that it would deduct the 
£246 in charges already refunded from the interest refund and credit the remainder to Mr Ms 
outstanding debt. It would also reduce the overdraft facility to £2,200.
Mr M disagreed, he thinks increase to his overdraft in December 2014 was unaffordable and 
wants to be compensated for this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what RBS has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have.
So where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable  in this 
case from 28 November 2019. And if those interest and charges were paid also add 8% 
simple interest per year.
RBS has told us that Mr M is left with an outstanding debt, once all adjustments have been 
made, and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by his overdraft 
increase from 28 November 2019. So while Mr M has been left with a balance and he might 
be unhappy with this, RBS has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provide credit when it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr M says RBS should do something different here. He says RBS shouldnt have allowed 
the overdraft limit increase in December 2014. 
Ive thought about what Mr M has said. And what hes said about the affordability of the 
overdraft increase in December 2014  rather than November 2019. 
RBS needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is it 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M would be 
able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our website sets out 
what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Mr Ms overdraft is what we refer to as an open-ended credit facility. This means the checks 
RBS carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether Mr M would 
be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
Mr Ms application for an overdraft increase from £1,200 to £1,900 was credit scored taking 
into account information Mr M provided about his income and how he had managed his 
account with it, as well as information held by other lenders provided through credit 
reference checks. And based on this information RBS was satisfied his score was high 
enough to provide him with the overdraft facility he requested.
I accept that Mr Ms financial position may well have been worse than the credit check 
carried out showed or in any information he disclosed to RBS at the time. And it is possible 
that further checks might have told RBS this. But RBS was reasonably entitled to rely on the 
credit check it carried out. 
There were regular incoming credits into the account at the time and Mr M was able to bring 
the overdraft down before once again going on to use his overdraft to make debit card 
transactions and further money transfers. And given the amount of credit being advanced 
was relatively low (£700), I think RBSs checks went far enough. 
But by November 2019 when he applied for a further overdraft increase of £1,100 it was 
evident he was in financial difficulty  Mr Ms statements showed that he was gambling 
significant sums and was in a cycle of repeated payday borrowing. Which is why Im in 
agreement with our adjudicator here that it is from this point RBS shouldve done more.  And 
this is the reason why I think it is fair RBS refund all charges from this date. 
All the interest, fees and charges RBS shouldnt have added have been removed from what 
he now needs to pay. So what Mr M is left with to repay are the funds which he used and 
benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have left him with a debt 
that he wouldnt otherwise have been left with. Indeed, this is supported by Mr Ms 
statements at the time which show transactions to parties other than existing creditors. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind Mr M spent them, I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to expect Mr M to repay these funds. And I dont think that Mr Ms unhappiness 
at having a debt to repay, even after his complaint has been upheld, is in itself a compelling 
reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what RBS has already agreed to do to put things 
right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr M to decide whether he 
wishes to accept RBS offer.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman