DRN-2469683
The complaint
Mr W complains that Loans 2 Go Limited has treated him unfairly in respect of a loan he took 
from the firm in March 2019. In particular he complains that he wasnt given sufficient 
information before he agreed to the loan, and that the settlement figures Loans 2 Go has 
quoted when he wanted to repay the loan early were not supported by evidence.
What happened
Mr W has taken two loans from Loans 2 Go. He first borrowed from the lender in July 2018 
but appears to have cancelled that loan on the same day it was taken out. His second loan, 
and the subject of this complaint, was taken in March 2019. That loan was for £250 and was 
due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments. Mr W repaid his loan early, in October 2019.
Mr W has said that he was unaware of the terms of the loan. Mr W says he was struggling to 
manage his money when the loan was agreed. He says he thought he had taken the loan 
over a two-month repayment period and he was surprised at the amount of interest he was 
charged. He says that the various early settlement figures he was quoted by the lender 
changed with no explanation. 
Mr Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that 
Loans 2 Go had done anything wrong, either before it lent the money to Mr W or over the 
course of the loan. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr W didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Mr Ws original complaint to Loans 2 Go didnt refer to the actual lending decision that it 
made. But, since the matters he is complaining about, are so closely connected to that 
lending decision I think it reasonable that I should consider it as part of my decision.
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Mr W before it agreed to lend to him. It asked 
him for details of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file. Ive 
seen the results of the credit check and they dont show any adverse information that I think 
should have caused additional concerns to the lender.
The amount that Mr W needed to repay on the loan was relatively small compared to the 
income hed declared. And it appeared to be affordable based on what hed said about his 
disposable income. I think that the checks Loans 2 Go did before agreeing the loan were 
proportionate. Given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for Loans 2 Go to ask him for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the loan. So I dont think 
Loans 2 Go was wrong to give this loan to Mr W.
Loans 2 Go has provided us with copies of the pre-contract credit information that it sent to 
Mr W before he took the loan. That document sets out that the loan would be repaid over 
18 monthly instalments. It tells Mr W the amount of each of those instalments, when the first 
instalment is due, and both the total amount hed need to repay and the interest rate he was 
being charged. Mr W electronically signed that document to confirm he had received it. So 
I cannot conclude that Loans 2 Go failed to provide Mr W with information about his loan.
I have considered that Mr W says he didnt receive or sign any documentation for this loan. 
On balance I find that difficult to accept. A signed loan agreement is a fundamental part of 
the lenders application process. Without that document it would be unable to seek 
repayment of the money it is lending. It doesnt appear that Mr W is saying the application for 
the loan was made by someone else  perhaps fraudulently. So it seems to me the only 
plausible explanation here is that Mr W did sign the loan agreement, but perhaps given the 
passage of time he has forgotten doing so.
Mr Ws loan was due to be repaid in monthly instalments of £57.14. So given he had 
borrowed £250 even the most basic calculation would suggest that the term was far longer 
than the two months Mr W is now saying was his understanding.
I can see that over the life of the loan Mr W regularly asked Loans 2 Go to provide him with 
early settlement figures. The method of calculating those figures is relatively complex and 
defined in legislation by the Consumer Credit Act. Each settlement figure is valid for a period 
of 28 days, to reflect that further interest would be due in the future, and so would need to be 
added to the outstanding loan balance. So it isnt surprising that the settlement figures 
quoted to Mr W changed from month to month.
The calculation of early settlement figures is something that is closely monitored by the 
regulator. Given the nature of loan interest it is normal to see early repayments being used 
to repay more interest than capital. So it isnt surprising that Mr Ws early repayments made 
little impact on what he owed to the lender. I havent seen anything to make me think that the 
early settlement figures Loans 2 Go provided to Mr W were incorrect.
So in summary, I dont think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give this loan to Mr W and the 
information it provided to him was sufficient for him to understand the financial commitment 
he was taking on. I dont think Loans 2 Go has treated Mr W unfairly in the calculation of the 
early settlement figures it provided to him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 Paul Reilly
Ombudsman