DRN-3548865
The complaint
C complains that Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE did not include certain clauses 
within its sports insurance policy, and that this meant C was unable to successfully claim for 
loss of income resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of the relevant events. It should also be 
noted that some of the relevant actions were taken by Allianzs agent; however, as Allianz is 
ultimately responsible for these actions, Ive only referred to C and Allianz for the sake of 
simplicity. 
C operates as a climbing company and, in 2019, took out an industry specific insurance 
policy ultimately underwritten by Allianz. The policy provided cover for a number of areas of 
risk, including a Consequential Loss section providing cover for business interruption. As 
well as the standard cover provided by this section, it was possible for supplementary 
clauses to be added to the policy. These included a Notifiable Diseases clause and a 
Prevention of Access clause. Due to an error that Allianz has accepted responsibility for, it 
seems these two supplementary clauses were not added to Cs cover. 
C had to close in March 2020 as a result of the government-imposed restrictions introduced 
to control the spread of COVID-19. It contacted Allianz to claim. After initially advising that 
the policy did not include the relevant clauses, Allianz accepted that there had been an error 
here. But said that the clauses did not offer cover in the circumstances anyway. Allianz said 
the Notifiable Diseases clause only provided cover in relation to a list of specified diseases, 
and this did not include COVID-19. And that the Prevention of Access clause requires the 
cause of prevention to be Damage, and also that the Governments actions to contain the 
pandemic was not the action of the military, police, or other similar security authority for 
reasons of security. 
C brought its complaint about this to our Service. But our Investigator did not think the 
complaint should be upheld. She agreed that an error had been made in the supplementary 
clauses not being added to the policy. But she considered the impact of this, that C wasnt 
able to claim under these clauses, was not material as she didnt consider a claim under 
these clauses would have been met in Cs circumstances. Essentially, she agreed with 
Allianzs reasoning as to why the clauses didnt cover the circumstance of the claim. 
C responded, pointing out that the courts had already found that policies providing cover for 
notifiable diseases did provide cover in circumstances such as this. And that the 
Government is a security authority and its actions were taken to secure the nation against 
the COVID-19 pandemic. Cs complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on C, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
Firstly, I will just cover off an administrative point; C has argued that it is making two claims. 
However, whilst it might be possible to claim under different parts of an insurance policy, it is 
only possible to claim for losses once. I should also point out that the complaint effectively is 
that the appropriate cover was not added to the policy, and this event only happened at one 
point in time, so we would not consider there to be multiple complaints either. It appears this 
would only be a potential issue if the complaint were to be upheld anyway, as only then 
would it be necessary to consider any financial limits that might apply. As I am not upholding 
the complaint, this issue is reasonably redundant. But hopefully this clarification is useful 
regardless. 
In terms of the complaint, it is accepted that an error was made when the policy was set up. 
Clauses that should have been included in the cover were not. So, it is necessary for me to 
consider the impact of this error. 
Allianz has said that the clauses were options offered to insureds who were part of the 
Climbing Scheme' at no additional cost. So, there does not appear to have been a direct 
financial detriment in terms of what was charged for the policy. I am also conscious that C, 
as the complainant, is a limited company. So, whilst I understand Cs director might be 
unhappy with the situation, it cannot be said that C itself has suffered any distress as a result 
of Allianzs error.  
As such, the impact of Allianzs error essentially comes down to whether the clauses would 
have provided cover in the circumstances C found itself in, had they been included at the 
time the contract of insurance was entered in September 2019.
I understand that C closed its business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of its business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy C took out and the clauses that 
were not included but should have been.
The standard cover provided by the Consequential Loss section of Cs policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Cs business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that purely 
rely on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Cs claim. And I 
think Allianz acted fairly and reasonably in saying Cs claim would not be met under this area 
of cover. I will now go onto focus on the two relevant supplementary clauses.
Notifiable Diseases clause
In terms of the supplementary clauses that this complaint is focussed on, the first of these 
provides cover where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But this is limited to providing cover in the event of certain diseases.
The clause provides cover, in part, where a Notifiable Disease has occurred within 5 miles 
of the insured premises. But the policy defines Notifiable Disease as having a particular 
meaning within the policy. This is:
illness sustained by any person resulting from:
1.31.1. food or drink poisoning, or
1.31.2. Legionnaires Disease and Legionella Virus or
1.31.3. any human infectious or human contagious disease, (excluding Acquired 
Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition), an outbreak of 
which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them, 
comprising:
Acute encephalitis; Meningococcal septicemia; Smallpox;
Acute poliomyelitis; Mumps; Tetanus;
Anthrax; Ophthalmia neonatorum; Tuberculosis;
Cholera; Paratyphoid Fever; Typhoid Fever;
Diphtheria; Plague; Typhus;
Dysentery (amoebic or 
bacillary);Rabies; Viral Flaemorrhagic Fever;
Leprosy; Relapsing Fever; Viral Flepatitis;
Leptospirosis; Rubella; Whooping Cough;
Malaria; Scarlet Fever; Yellow Fever;
Measles; Smallpox;
Meningitis; Scarlet Fever;
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided C with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt one 
of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for Allianz to include it in the 
policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I 
dont think Allianz intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. 
Allianz deliberately chose to define Notifiable Disease by reference to a static list of certain 
diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. The use of the word comprising supports this. There is nothing in the policy 
which implies that it provides cover for other diseases, including any new diseases which 
might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. The courts have found, 
as C has said, that these policies might, depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But 
this is not the type of policy C has. I do note that the policy uses the term Notifiable Disease, which is the same name given to 
the Governments list. But the policy makes it clear that this term has a specific meaning 
within the policy  stating in more than one place in the policy that certain words have 
specific meanings. And I dont think this term in the policy could be reasonably interpreted as 
a reference to the Governments list. Whilst different sources call the different lists by the 
same name, they are not the same list. The policy does not respond to all the diseases in 
the Governments list.
I also note that the policy definition does repeat the term Scarlet Fever, and also contains 
other potentially unnecessary references (for example to AIDS). But I do not consider this 
means the term is unclear or that it can be fairly read to include cover for COVID-19.
I think the purpose and effect, of the clause that should have been included in the policy C 
has, is to provide cover in the event of the diseases listed in the policy definition of 
Notifiable Disease in the policy. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the 
policy does not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont 
think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside 
of the defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Cs claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Cs policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Allianzs decision to decline the claim was in 
line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Prevention of Access (including actions of Security Forces) clause
This supplementary clause reads:
The Insurance of Estimated Gross Profit or Estimated Gross Revenue (whichever is 
applicable) is extended to include any loss caused by an Insured Peril under Material 
Damage resulting in interruption to, or interference with Your Business at the 
Premises, as a consequence of Damage to surrounding areas and/or to property in 
the vicinity, within a 5 mile radius of Your Premises, which shall prevent or hinder 
Your use thereof or access thereto whether Your Premises or Property Insured is 
damaged or not. This Clause shall include any loss resulting from any action taken 
by the military, police or other similar security authorities preventing or hindering the 
use of or access to Your Premises for reasons of security, whether hoax or not.
The first part of this clause clearly requires there to have been Damage. As explained above, 
I dont consider that there was any such damage that led to an interruption of Cs business. 
So, I dont think this part of the clause applies. 
Allianz has suggested that Damage is required for this clause to apply in all circumstances. 
However, whilst I do agree both sentences of this clause need to be read together, I am not 
sure I entirely agree with Allianzs interpretation. The clause specifically provides cover in the 
event of a hoax. And, whilst it would not be impossible for a hoax bomb scare to lead to 
damage, I think a person reading this clause would reasonably understand the cover to 
include situations where there has been a certain set of events that required certain action, 
even where those events did not include actual damage having occurred. 
That said, the events would have to be those that required action by; the military, the police 
or other similar security authorities for reasons of security. It is not, as C has suggested, any action of these bodies that is covered  it only those taken 
for specific reasons  those of security. And I do not think the Governments actions in 
controlling the COVID-19 pandemic could reasonably be considered as such. C has argued 
that the Governments actions were taken for the security of the health of the public. But 
whilst I appreciate the argument C is making, I dont think it is likely that a person reading the 
policy at the time it was taken out in 2019 would have considered that the clause covered 
the kind of actions taken by the Government in controlling the COVID-19 pandemic. 
However, even if that were something that could be successfully argued, the key issue for 
me is that I do not consider term other similar security authorities could be interpreted as 
referring to the Government. 
C has said that the Government is the ultimate security authority. And that they make the 
decisions which are then enforced by the police. However, even if this is the case, I consider 
this merely emphasises the fact that the Government are not a similar security authority. 
There are clearly separate roles that are being performed. And I dont think it is reasonable 
to consider the Government similar to either the military or the police. 
Whilst not binding on this service, and whilst also in relation to different policy wording, I am 
mindful of Lord Mances comments in a recent Arbitration between China Taiping Insurance 
(UK) Co Ltd and some of its policy holders  a copy of the Award can be found here 
https://uk.cntaiping.com/tplresource/cms/www/taiping/file/Award_ANNEXA.zip. This 
Arbitration, in part, considered whether the actions of the Police or other competent local 
authority could include the actions of the Government. And whilst much of the argument 
here focussed on the meaning of the second part of this term, Lord Mance was not 
persuaded that the reference to the Police in this policy could reasonably be interpreted as a 
reference to the national Government. 
Ultimately, the Government is the executive branch and may well be responsible for creating 
rules which might then be enforced by the police, but the two are clearly not similar bodies. 
I consider that a person, with all the relevant background knowledge, reading the policy in 
September 2019 would not have interpreted this clause to refer to the actions of the 
Government in controlling the spread of disease. It follows that I dont think Allianz acted 
inappropriately when saying this clause would have provided cover for C in relation to the 
circumstances it encountered.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Allianz should have met Cs claim, even had the supplementary clauses 
been included in the original cover. As such, I dont consider there to have been an impact of 
not including these that Allianz now needs to remedy. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for C and its director, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough 
explanation of why this policy wouldnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman