DRN-2012121
The complaint
Mr B complains about inaccurate information he was given by Scottish Equitable Plc (trading 
as AEGON), when he was trying to access his pension and take tax-free cash. He says if 
he had known about the length of time it would take, he would have acted differently and has 
suffered a loss as a result.
What happened
Mr B had a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with AEGON. He wanted to take 25% of 
the value of his pension fund as tax free cash and transfer the remainder to a drawdown 
plan. He spoke to AEGON by phone on 7 May 2019 and was given the value of his fund and 
told it wasnt guaranteed. He was happy with the value but was told it took four working days 
for the transaction to be processed and he would get the value of the fund on the fourth day. 
AEGON explained that it might be possible to go through an independent financial adviser 
(IFA) and that would reduce the time it took to process the transaction. It also explained that 
it was possible for the fund value to drop between it receiving his instruction and the 
transaction being finalised. Mr B mentioned waiting until the stock market was more stable, 
as stock prices had fallen, and he said he would wait and call back when he was ready to 
proceed.
Mr B phoned AEGON on 8 May 2019 and said he was looking to go ahead as nothing had 
changed since Friday (3 May 2019). AEGON explained that it would proceed, and it would 
take four days. 
Mr B phoned on 15 May 2019, five working days later, and said he was unhappy because 
there had been a delay in the transaction being completed and the fund value had fallen by 
around £4,000 since 8 May 2019.
AEGON explained it was currently in the process of selling the units in his fund and it could 
take between five and eight working days. Mr B said he might have made a different 
decision if hed been told that in the first place. For example, he might have gone through an 
IFA or held off trading until he was confident the market was in a better place. AEGON 
explained there was a previous trade already going through on his account and that had 
caused delay as it had to be settled before the new transaction took place. 
By 22 May 2019 the units had been sold and Mr B received around £3,000 - £4,000 less 
than he thought he would have done if the transaction had taken the four working days he 
was told it would take.
Mr B complained to AEGON, which upheld his complaint and offered him £400 
compensation for the inaccurate information hed been given. Mr B didnt think this was 
enough compensation and brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One 
of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint, but he thought AEGONs offer was fair. Mr 
B has asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a consumer has been given incorrect or inaccurate information, my aim isnt to put 
the consumer in the position they would have been in if the inaccurate information was 
accurate. My aim is to put the consumer back in the position they would have been in, so far 
as is possible, if they had been given the correct information in the first place. 
Whatever Mr B chose to do there would always be some delay between him giving the 
instruction to sell and the units in his fund being sold. During that time the value of his fund 
would fluctuate. It is possible he would have chosen to delay the sale if he had been told this 
period could be eight working days, rather than four. But even if he had, he had no way of 
knowing whether delaying the sale would result in him getting more or less than he actually 
received. Prices could have continued to fall. There was some suggestion that going through 
an IFA could have sped-up the process, although AEGON later advised that this wasnt the 
case. In any event, there would have been charges associated with going through an IFA 
and I think that these would have meant Mr B is unlikely to have pursued that route. This 
would have ultimately had roughly the same effect, reducing the final value he received from 
the sale of the units in his fund.
So while there were errors, if it had been explained to Mr B, on 7 or 8 May 2019, that it could 
take around eight working days to complete this transaction, Im not persuaded its more 
likely than not he would have decided to wait. He wanted to access his tax-free cash. I think 
its at least equally possible he would have decided to proceed in case his fund value fell 
further. If he had delayed, it is very difficult to say when he would have decided to sell and 
whether he would have achieved a better price.
AEGON offered Mr B £400 compensation for the misinformation it had given him. This was 
not designed to compensate for the difference between his fund value on the day AEGON 
originally told him the transaction would complete and the day it actually completed. Thats 
because there was no error in processing the transaction. But it did recognise that it had 
caused a loss of expectation. 
If I was persuaded that, with full knowledge of the real timescales, Mr B wouldve done 
something different, I would look to put him back in that position. But as explained, the 
evidence doesnt persuade me its more likely than not that he wouldve taken a different 
course of action. And if he did, theres little way of knowing whether he would be better off as 
a result. Having considered everything thats been provided to me, overall, I think AEGONs 
offer of £400 is fair and reasonable. It recognises Mr B has been caused distress and put to 
some inconvenience in trying to sort out the problem and is proportionate, bearing in mind 
the time taken, the additional phone calls and emails. My final decision
My final decision is that Scottish Equitable Plc, trading as AEGONs offer of £400 is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, so I direct it to pay Mr B £400 if it hasnt already done 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Greg Barham
Ombudsman