DRN-4247770
The complaint
Miss B complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund the money she lost when 
she was the victim of what she feels was a scam.
What happened
In late 2020, Miss B was looking to renovate her property and so searched for builders on a 
trade association website. She found a builder she was interested in, met with them and was 
provided with a quote for the work. Then, in February 2021, Miss B decided to go ahead with 
the work and so paid a deposit to the builder. It was agreed the work would start in March 
2021, lasting for 12 weeks, and Miss B would make weekly payments to pay the remainder 
of the balance.
The builder started the work as agreed, and Miss B made the weekly payments. But then in 
May 2021, after the final weekly payment had been made, the builder told Miss B that there 
would be a delay in completing the work. Miss B says the builder then stopped working on 
the property and later asked for more money to complete the work. Miss B made a few 
further payments to the builder over the following months, and she says some occasional 
further work was done at the property. But ultimately the work wasnt completed and Miss B 
found out the builder was seeking insolvency. So she reported the payments she had made 
to Nationwide as a scam and asked it to refund the money she had lost.
Nationwide investigated but said that as the builder had started the work and met with 
Miss B regularly, it felt this was a private civil dispute between them. So it didnt agree to 
refund the payments Miss B had made. Nationwide did pay Miss B £25 compensation for 
giving her incorrect information about the outcome of her claim. Miss B wasnt satisfied with 
Nationwides response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the case. They said they felt this was a civil dispute 
between Miss B and the builder, as they werent persuaded the builder had set out with the 
intention to scam Miss B from the outset. So they didnt think Nationwide should have to 
refund the payments Miss B had made. Miss B disagreed with our investigator, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Nationwide to refund the money 
Miss B has lost. Ill explain why below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Nationwide is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victim of certain types of scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But customers 
are only covered by the code where they have been the victim of a scam.
The CRM code says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. So in order 
to determine whether Nationwide should refund the money Miss B lost under the CRM code, 
I need to consider whether she has been the victim of a scam  or, in other words, whether 
the builder set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud her.
Miss B says she found the builder on a trade association website, and that the builder had 
won awards with the trade association and had a number of good reviews on the website. 
But this isnt how I would typically expect a scammer to get in contact with someone, and I 
wouldnt expect a scammer to be able to arrange these kinds of awards or reviews.
The builder started the work at Miss Bs property at the agreed time and appears to have 
been working there for a number of months before there were significant concerns about the 
work being done. And from Miss Bs descriptions of the work that was done, it appears the 
builder did a significant amount of work, and more than just destructive work  including 
removal of a wall and construction of a new one, painting of walls and woodwork, installing 
carpet and wood flooring and installing toilets, sinks and showers. Whereas Id usually 
expect a scammer to do as little work as possible in order to get the maximum possible profit 
in the shortest period of time. So the builder did more work than Id expect from a scammer 
who never intended to complete the work.
The reasons the builder gave Miss B for the delays and the increase in costs, such as supply 
issues and the global pandemic, also seem plausible and I dont think these necessarily 
suggest the builder was trying to scam her. And Miss B was able to contact the builder after 
shed made most of the agreed payments, which I also wouldnt expect from a scammer who 
never intended to complete the work.
The bank the payments were sent to has also told us that it hasnt had any other scam 
reports made against the builders account and had no concerns about the activity on the 
account. And from what Ive seen of the activity on the account the money was sent to, it 
appears to have been run as I would expect a legitimate account to have been.
I appreciate how Miss B feels about this case, and that her property was left unfinished and 
she now cant afford to finish the intended work. And some of the information she had sent 
us does suggest the builder wasnt acting legitimately, such as the apparently incorrect 
statements and misleading paperwork the builder provided relating to insurance Miss B 
would be covered by.
But I must apply the definition of a scam as set out in the CRM code, even though it may not 
be exactly the same as the legal or criminal definition of fraud Miss B has mentioned. And, 
where the evidence available is incomplete or inconclusive, I must make a decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more 
likely the builder here was attempting to operate as a legitimate business at the time and that 
other factors ultimately meant the building work wasnt completed. I dont think the builder 
set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud Miss B, or that Miss B has been the 
victim of a scam here.So I dont think the payments Miss B made to the builder are covered under the CRM code, 
or that Nationwide should be required to refund the money she lost.
Miss B has mentioned the possibility of getting quotes to show how much completing the 
remaining work would cost. But I dont think these would change the outcome of this 
complaint as the fact that the work wasnt completed, or how much it would cost to complete, 
is not in dispute.
I sympathise with the position Miss B has found herself in, and Im in no way saying she did 
anything wrong or that she doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the builder. But, for 
the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it would be fair to hold Nationwide responsible 
for the money shes lost.
Nationwide has paid Miss B £25 for the incorrect information it gave her about the outcome 
of her claim. And I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman