DRN-3951673
The complaint
Miss O is unhappy with a car she acquired under a hire purchase agreement provided by 
247 Money Group Limited (247).
What happened
In July 2021 Miss O acquired a used car funded by a hire purchase agreement through 247. 
The car was around seven years old and had covered around 95,674 miles. The car cost 
£4,750.
Unfortunately, Miss O says the car broke down around June 2022. At the beginning of July 
2022 Miss O took the car to a garage who gave her a quote for repairs to the clutch and 
flywheel, gear cables and power steering. The estimate came to £2,701.40.
Miss O complained to 247 and it arranged an independent inspection of the car. 247 then 
sent Miss O a final response to her complaint in August 2022. This said, in summary, that 
the inspection had concluded that the faults werent present or developing when the car was 
supplied to Miss O. So, it said it wasnt upholding the complaint.
Miss O brought the complaint to our service. She said the car shouldnt have gone wrong 
when it did. And she said the garage had told her the car had been previously repaired 
before she got it.
Our service began to investigate. While we were looking into things, Miss O said shed taken 
the car to another garage who found further issues. She provided a further estimate in 
October 2022 that noted additional issues with brakes, wheel bearings and the battery. The 
cost of repair was estimated at just under £4,000.
Our investigator issued an opinion. She explained she didnt think the faults were present or 
developing when the car was supplied to Miss O. So, she didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld.
Miss O was unhappy with this. She said, in summary, that the issues actually appeared in 
March 2022 and she didnt drive the car for several months because of this. She said she 
had to have the brakes repaired shortly after getting the car. And she said the mechanic 
from the independent inspection didnt look at the car properly.
I sent Miss O and 247 a provisional decision on 23 January 2023. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Miss O complains about the quality of a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. 
Entering into regulated consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity, so Im 
satisfied I can consider Miss Os complaint against 247.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  247 here  has a responsibility to 
make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person 
would expect  taking into account any relevant factors.
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. So, Ill keep in mind that the car Miss O acquired was around seven 
years old, had covered nearly 100,000 miles and cost less than £5,000  which is a very 
significant discount on what the car wouldve cost new. So, I dont think a reasonable person 
wouldve expected the car to be in the same condition as a newer, less road worn one. But, I 
think they would expect it to be free from major issues and to be road legal and safe.
So, what I need to consider here is whether the car supplied to Miss O was of satisfactory 
quality or not.
Firstly, I do think its likely this car developed faults with the power steering, gearbox and 
clutch. I say this as these are noted in the independent report and the estimates from the 
garages. So, I need to consider whether this means the car was of unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied.
Ive considered what the independent inspection said here. Its worth noting that the mileage 
is recorded as 98,000 miles on this report. But the report says the battery was totally flat  so 
it appears this is an estimate. I can see the mileage was recorded as 99,865 a couple of 
months later on the MOT  so I think its most likely the car had covered more than 98,000 
miles at this time.
The independent report says:
Due to the time that has elapsed since the vehicle was purchased, we do not consider the 
reported faults to be present or developing at the point of inception
I appreciate Miss O says the inspector didnt look at the car properly. But, I havent seen 
enough to persuade me that the conclusions of the report arent valid.
Ive thought about this. At the time Miss O initially said the car broke down, shed had it for 
over ten months. And shed covered, at least, around 2,500 miles. Given this, I think its most 
likely the report is correct and that the faults were not present or developing at the point of 
supply.
Ive gone on to consider whether a reasonable person would consider the car to have been 
durable. But, thinking about the cost of the car along with its age and mileage, I dont think a 
reasonable person would consider that the car wasnt durable considering when it went 
wrong.
Ive considered that Miss O took the car to a garage who identified further faults since the 
inspection. But, I havent seen enough to persuade me these faults were present or 
developing at the point of supply.
Ive also thought about the fact Miss O said a garage told her the car had been previously 
repaired. But, Ive seen no further evidence of this. And the independent report specifically 
says:
There is no evidence of any previous unsuccessful repairs
So, this doesnt change my opinion.
Ive gone on to consider what Miss O said in response to the investigators view. She said the car actually went wrong in March 2022 and then wasnt driven. Im not sure why she 
initially told us the car broke down in June 2022 if this was the case. And, I can see on the 
independent inspection that the car was noted as failing in June 2022. But, I dont think I 
need to make a finding here on what likely happened.
I say this as, even if I accepted what Miss O said here, if the car did go wrong in March 
2022, I still wouldnt have seen enough evidence to persuade me that the faults were 
present or developing at the point of supply, nor that the car wasnt reasonably durable. I say 
this as Miss O wouldve been driving the car for over seven months since she got it at this 
point. So, either way, this wouldnt change my opinion.
Miss O also said she had to have work completed on the brakes a couple of months after 
getting the car. But, I can see the car passed an MOT around a month before Miss O 
acquired it. I appreciate there is something of a lack of evidence here. But I havent seen 
enough to make me think the brakes werent legal nor safe when Miss O acquired the car. 
So, it follows this doesnt change my opinion.
I gave both parties two weeks to come back with any further comments or information. 
Neither Miss O nor 247 responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about all of the information and evidence on this case again, I still dont think 
it should be upheld.
This is due to the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman