DRN-4011622
The complaint
Miss L complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) unfairly 
cancelled her policy. 
What happened
Miss L took out a motor insurance policy with Advantage. When a third-party tried to make 
claim on her policy in November 2022 Advantage became aware she was employed as a 
delivery driver, but it was recorded on her policy she was unemployed.
Advantage said shed not informed it of her change of employment status during the term of 
her policy. It said it did not offer cover for delivery drivers. It issued a notice to cancel her 
policy and did not accept the claim. It said she still needed to pay the outstanding policy 
premiums.
Miss L said she did not require cover for being a delivery driver because she was covered by 
her employers motor insurance policy whilst she was at work. 
Miss L brought her complaint to our service and our investigator thought it should be upheld. 
They said Advantage shouldve treated what happened as a misrepresentation. They felt it 
was fair for Advantage to avoid the policy from the point of misrepresentation and refund her 
premiums. And it should stop chasing Miss L for the remaining policy premiums. 
Advantage doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
It said if it avoided Miss Ls policy, it would be recorded on external databases and be 
declarable for the foreseeable future. Additionally it would need to make Miss Ls new 
insurer aware of the policy voidance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage cancelled Miss Ls policy because it said it did not offer cover for delivery drivers. 
I saw the policy was initially taken out in July 2020 and at this point Miss L was unemployed. 
But she did not inform Advantage when she became employed and started a job as a 
delivery driver. I saw Miss L said she had been employed as a delivery driver for some time, 
approximately two years before the claim was made in November 2022. 
Ive looked at the opportunities Miss L had to update Advantage with her change of 
employment status and occupation. 
Miss Ls policy has renewed twice since it was first taken out and I saw the renewal 
paperwork that was sent to her to be checked for accuracy had her recorded as 
unemployed. In addition she changed her car in September 2022 and again new documents 
were sent for her to check and the documents said she was unemployed.
Miss L said she tried to change her employment status a number of times, but she has not 
provided any evidence of this.
Advantage provided records of contact from Miss L. These were in July 2021 when she rang 
about her renewal price, March 2022 when she made a claim which she said was a social 
journey and then a call in August 2022 when she changed cars. She did not mention her 
change of employment status or occupation at all during any of these calls.
I think Miss L failed to take reasonable care to inform Advantage of the changes in her 
circumstances. In this case her change in employment status and occupation details.
Because Miss L failed to update Advantage of her change of details, this means Im satisfied 
Miss Ls misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
I think Miss Ls misrepresentation was careless. She said because her employer covered her 
on its business insurance whilst she was at work, she did not realise she still had to disclose 
her occupation as a delivery driver.
As Im satisfied Miss Ls misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions Advantage can take in accordance with CIDRA.
In this case Advantage said if Miss L had told it she was a delivery driver, it would not have 
been able to continue offering her insurance. It said this is irrespective of there being 
alternative business insurance in place when at work, as in Miss Ls case, or not. It said this 
was because ultimately, it would still be exposed to meet any potential third-party claim if the 
business insurer declined to meet a claim. 
Advantage provided evidence of its underwriting criteria, which I reviewed, and it confirms it 
would not have continued to offer a motor insurance policy to her if she had informed it that 
she was working as a delivery driver.
Under the terms of CIDRA as Miss L has made a careless misrepresentation and Advantage 
would not have offered cover it is entitled to avoid Miss Ls policy. It can avoid the policy 
from the point of misrepresentation. In this case the date the misrepresentation was found, 
and return any unused premiums paid.
Advantage did not follow CIDRA. It said it has cancelled Miss Ls policy and it requires her to 
pay for the remaining policy premiums. It said avoiding the policy is recorded on external 
databases whereas their cancellation of the policy is not. In addition it said, should it avoid 
the policy it means she would have been driving with no insurance.We dont know if Miss L is going to be better or worse off with future premiums as different 
insurers ask different questions and/or use different risk ratings when calculating policy 
premiums.
Although I dont think Advantage should reinstate Miss Ls policy I think the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this case is that Advantage should follow CIDRA. 
Advantage should avoid the policy from the date it became aware of the misrepresentation 
and return any overpayment of premiums to Miss L. And it should stop chasing her for the 
premiums for the rest of the policy intended term.
If Miss L accepts my decision the policy avoidance will need to be declared as Advantage 
should add this to their external databases in line with CIDRA. If Miss L rejects my decision 
Advantage can require payment of the policy premiums, but Miss L may not need to declare 
the cancellation if Advantage hasnt recorded anything on their external databases.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to follow CIDRA and avoid Miss Ls policy. 
Advantage should avoid the policy from the date it became aware of the misrepresentation 
and return any overpayment of premiums to Miss L. And it should stop chasing her for the 
premiums for the rest of the policy intended term.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman