DRN-3314079
The complaint
Mr M complains that BUPA Insurance Limited turned down a claim he made on a corporate 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M was enrolled onto a corporate private medical insurance policy on 1 February 2019. In 
September 2020, Mr M made a claim for gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GERD).
BUPA turned down Mr Ms claim. It said the medical evidence Mr Ms GP had provided 
indicated that Mr M had began to experience symptoms of GERD in late January 2019, 
which pre-dated the start date of the policy. So BUPA considered GERD to be a pre-existing 
medical condition which had existed prior to Mr Ms enrolment in the group policy. Pre-
existing medical conditions were specifically excluded by the policy terms and therefore, 
BUPA said Mr Ms condition wasnt covered.
Mr M was unhappy with BUPAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. In 
particular, he said hed felt his earlier symptoms had been of simple heartburn and he hadnt 
known they were symptoms of GERD. He also said hed declared all of his existing 
conditions when he applied for the policy.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She felt the medical 
evidence suggested that Mr M had been experiencing symptoms of GERD before the policy 
began. She acknowledged that Mr M might not have realised that his symptoms were of 
GERD. But she felt that the condition fell within the scope of BUPAs definition of a pre-
existing medical condition. So she concluded itd been fair for BUPA to turn down Mr Ms 
claim.
Mr M disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He maintained that 
hed answered questions about his health at the point of policy application. The form had 
specifically asked whether hed had indigestion hed seen a GP about and he considered 
this was what BUPA had wanted to know, rather than about a period of non-specific 
symptoms. He considered the terms would reassure a consumer that they didnt need to tell 
BUPA about a short episode of symptoms. He maintained hed had no knowledge of GERD, 
which hadnt been excluded from cover. He felt the investigator had misinterpreted the 
relevant policy exclusion and had reached unsustainable conclusions.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think it was fair for BUPA to turn down 
his claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr M that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to our service, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent 
us. Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point Mr Ms raised and nor do 
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Ms policy and the available evidence, to decide whether BUPA handled the 
claim fairly.
Theres no dispute that Mr M applied for the policy on 30 January 2019. He was enrolled 
onto the policy with effect from 1 February 2019, although his policy certificate wasnt issued 
until 22 February 2019. On the application form, Mr M declared conditions and symptoms 
hed previously suffered from, which BUPA excluded from cover. Its common ground that Mr 
M didnt declare symptoms of heartburn.
When Mr M made a claim for GERD in September 2020, BUPA assessed the claim in line 
with the policy terms, taking into the account the available medical evidence. I find this was 
in line with BUPAs usual claims handling process and that it was entitled to be satisfied that 
Mr Ms claim was covered by the terms of the policy. So Ive turned to look at the policy 
terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Ms contract with BUPA.
The policy terms set out a specific list of things BUPA has chosen to exclude from cover. 
Page 51 sets out Exclusion 23  Pre-Existing Conditions. This says:
For underwritten members we do not pay for treatment of a pre-existing condition, or a 
disease, illness or injury that results from or is related to a pre-existing condition.
Exception: For underwritten members we pay for eligible treatment of a pre-existing 
condition, or a disease, illness or injury which results from or is related to a pre-existing 
condition, if all the following requirements have been met:
you have been sent your membership certificate which lists the person with the pre-
existing condition (whether this is you or one of your dependants) 
you gave us all the information we asked you for, before we sent you your first 
membership certificate listing the person with the pre-existing condition for their 
current continuous period of cover under the scheme
neither you nor the person with the pre-existing condition knew about it before we 
sent you your first membership certificate which lists the person with the pre-existing 
condition for their current continuous period of cover under the scheme, and
we did not exclude cover (for example under a special condition) for the costs of the 
treatment, when we sent you your membership certificate.Page 61 sets out what BUPA means by a pre-existing medical condition. This is defined as:
any disease, illness or injury for which in the seven years before your effective underwriting 
date:
you have received medication, advice or treatment, or
you have experienced symptoms
whether the condition was diagnosed or not. (Emphasis added).
BUPA considered the available medical evidence and concluded that Mr M had been 
suffering from symptoms of GERD before the policy began. So Ive looked closely at all of 
the evidence to decide whether this was a fair conclusion for BUPA to draw.
In September 2020, both Mr M and his GP completed a medical assessment form which was 
sent to BUPA. This stated that Mr M had been suffering from persistent reflux. In Mr Ms 
description of his symptoms, he said:
I cannot remember exactly when my symptoms beganSome of the symptoms must have 
been present earlier, because when I saw my GP in late January 2020, I think I had been 
getting symptoms for the last year at least. I think I put earlier symptoms down to eating 
too much, or too quickly, at the time I had these symptoms. (Emphasis added).
Mr Ms GP stated that the very first signs and symptoms of the condition were 29 January 
2019. And in a referral letter, dated July 2020, the GP said:
I would be grateful for your expert opinion on (Mr M) who has been suffering from dyspepsia 
and reflux for the last 18 months. He was taking antacids that helped initially and then he 
went onto daily omeprazole which up until recently has controlled his symptoms.
Taking all of this evidence together, I think it was reasonable for BUPA to conclude that     
Mr M was experiencing symptoms of GERD in the seven years before the effective policy 
underwriting date. Thats because by Mr Ms own account, when he saw the GP in late 
January 2020, hed been experiencing symptoms for the last year at least. As the policy 
commenced on 1 February 2019, Mr Ms testimony supports a reasonable conclusion that 
his symptoms had begun during the previous month at least. And the GPs evidence states 
that Mr M experienced symptoms very shortly before he applied for the policy. Their referral 
letter too indicates that in July 2020, Mr M had been experiencing symptoms for the last 18 
months. This then would suggest that Mr Ms symptoms had begun in January 2019  before 
the policy underwriting date. 
It's clear that Mr M feels strongly that his claim falls within the exception to the pre-existing 
condition exclusion. I disagree. The terms clearly state that all four limbs of the exception 
must be met before claims for a pre-existing condition will be paid. As Ive set out above, the 
exception includes the following limb:
neither you nor the person with the pre-existing condition knew about it before we 
sent you your first membership certificate which lists the person with the pre-
existing condition for their current continuous period of cover under the scheme, and
I dont dispute that Mr M likely did not realise that the symptoms he was experiencing when 
he took out the policy were down to GERD. I also accept that he may not have thought that 
these symptoms would ever lead to a claim. But the definition of a pre-existing condition 
includes symptoms  a policyholders knowledge of a diagnosis itself isnt necessary. BUPA issued Mr Ms first policy certificate on 22 February 2019.  And it remains the case that in my 
view, the evidence points to Mr Ms symptoms beginning in January 2019. So even though it 
appears he didnt know what was causing the symptoms, I think he was most likely aware 
that he was experiencing symptoms of a condition he later claimed for at the time the 
certificate was issued. This means I dont think it was unfair for BUPA to conclude that this 
limb of the exception hadnt been met.
In summary, I sympathise with Mr Ms position, as I understand NHS treatment for the 
condition has been delayed. However, I find that it was fair for BUPA to rely on the medical 
evidence to conclude that GERD was a pre-existing condition in line with the policy terms. 
And so I think it was fair for BUPA to turn down this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman