DRN-3071132
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) didnt complete a 
withdrawal instruction that hed made in a timely manner.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr P wanted to withdraw some money from his NS&I account and so issued 
an instruction to NS&I to transfer £9,975.00 to his current account, which was held with a 
third-party bank. As per NS&Is stated withdrawal timeframe, Mr P expected the money to be 
in his bank within a few days. However, Mr P was contacted by NS&I who advised him the 
withdrawal request had been flagged for some additional security checks and who asked   
Mr P to provide a bank statement for the account hed requested the money to be 
transferred to as theyd been unable to verify the account themselves.
At this time, NS&Is advisor also explained to Mr P that because NS&I had had to issue a 
recall request to the third-party bank and that they wouldnt be able to complete any verified 
transfer to Mr Ps chosen account until the recalled funds had been received back to NS&I, 
which could take up to 15 working days. Mr P wasnt happy about this, so he raised a 
complaint with NS&I.
Mr P provided the bank statements to NS&I as requested. A few weeks later, Mr P chased 
NS&I, having heard nothing from them about the status of his withdrawal request or his 
complaint. NS&I confirmed to Mr P that theyd received his statements but that they were 
waiting for the money to complete the process of being recalled back to NS&I, at which point 
Mr P could then put in a new request to withdraw the funds back to his (now verified) current 
account.
A few days later, NS&I confirmed to Mr P that the funds had been received back to them, 
and Mr P then successfully completed a new withdrawal request, with the funds being 
received to his current account shortly afterwards.
NS&I looked at Mr Ps complaint, but while they apologised for the delay in Mr P receiving 
the funds, they felt that the additional security checks had been reasonable and justified.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response, especially as the investment vehicle hed 
intended to put the withdrawn money into had increased in price during the delay. So, he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that the additional 
security checks that NS&I had undertaken had been reasonable, and so they didnt uphold 
Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr P that his requested withdrawal 
was delayed because of the additional security checks that NS&I felt were required before 
allowing the withdrawal to complete.
However, like all financial institutions, NS&I have a responsibility to ensure that adequate 
security measures are in place to protect their customers money. And unfortunately, these 
security measures can occasionally entail a degree of necessary inconvenience for their 
customers, which can include delays such as that which took place here. 
NS&I have confirmed that in regard to Mr Ps request to withdraw £9,975, they were unable 
to verify that the legitimacy of the current account to which Mr P had requested the funds be 
withdrawn to via their usual electronic process. And it was for this reason that NS&I asked 
Mr P to provide copies of bank statements for that account. 
This seems reasonable to me, and it wouldnt be expected that NS&I would allow a large 
transfer such as Mr P was requesting here to take place without being assured of the validity 
of the recipient account. 
Mr P may argue that hed made an earlier withdrawal request for £25 to the same account 
which NS&I had fulfilled, and which hadnt been selected for any further security checks. But 
NS&I have confirmed that they focus their security measures on high value transfers, which 
is why the low value transfer of £25 wasnt subject to the same checks as the later higher 
value transfer that Mr P requested. This focus on higher value transfers seems reasonable 
to me, and I dont feel that NS&Is approach in this regard is unusual.
It's notable having listened to the telephone calls between Mr P and NS&I that Mr P appears 
to have felt that hed provided the necessary verifications over the telephone to NS&I. 
However, it must be noted that the telephone security process that Mr P completed was 
undertaken to allow NS&Is agent to confirm his identity in order to speak with him over the 
telephone and didnt impact NS&Is need to verify the bank account in order to allow the 
withdrawal of funds to that account.
Additionally, when NS&I first confirmed to Mr P that his request had been flagged for further 
security checks, it was explained to Mr P at that time that no replacement withdrawal request 
could be fulfilled until the original funds were recalled to NS&I, and that this could take up to 
fifteen working days. Mr P then sent his bank statements to NS&I as requested, and these 
were verified so that when the money was received back to NS&I  which did take place 
within 15 working days  Mr P could immediately make a new withdrawal request. 
As such, while I can appreciate Mr Ps dissatisfaction at having to wait until the funds were 
received back to NS&I in order to re-request the withdrawal, Im satisfied that the additional 
checks and the process that NS&I undertook were fair and reasonable and that the Mr P 
was eventually able to re-request the withdrawal within the 15 working day timeframe that he 
was originally advised of by NS&I. 
All of which means that while I dont dispute that Mr P was inconvenienced by what took 
place here, I feel that the degree of inconvenience that Mr P experienced was fair and 
reasonable and unfortunately necessary when considered against NS&Is wider obligations 
to have adequate security measures in place to protect their customers money. And given that I dont feel that NS&I have acted unfairly here, it follows from this that I wont 
be upholding this complaint as Mr P would like, or instructing NS&I to cover any investment 
loss that Mr P feels that hes incurred. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr P was wanting, but I hope that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman