DRN-4368465
The complaint
Mr P and Mr S are business partners, trading as S. They complain HCC International 
Insurance Company Plc turned down a claim they made on their Tradesman, Contractors 
and Professionals policy and voided that policy from the outset.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr P and Mr S had business equipment stolen from them and made a 
claim on their policy. After investigating HCC turned down the claim. It said the goods stolen 
werent ones Mr P and Mr Ss policy covered. And they were also stolen from a location that 
wasnt their insured location. 
HCC also said if it had known the true nature of Mr P and Mr Ss business it wouldnt have 
offered cover for this. In addition, if it had known Mr S was under 18 at the point the policy 
was taken out, that would also have led it to decline cover. 
Our investigator thought HCC had acted fairly in concluding the items stolen werent covered 
by the policy and werent stolen from the insured location. In relation to the information 
provided when the policy was taken out she thought the relevant legislation was the 
Insurance Act 2015. And she agreed Mr P and Mr S hadnt made a fair presentation of risk 
to HCC. She was satisfied HCC wouldnt have offered cover if it been aware of the correct 
position and thought it acted reasonably in voiding the policy and refunding the premiums 
Mr P and Mr S paid for it. 
Mr P and Mr Ss representatives didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to review 
matters. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say HCC has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive thought first about whether HCC was right to turn down the claim Mr P and Mr S made. 
Ive looked at their policy schedule and I can see they didnt have cover for Tools and 
Business Equipment. However, under Contract Works, Own and Hired in Plant they are 
insured for up to £30,0000 for Own Plant. Thats defined in the policy as Plant scaffolding 
site huts and temporary buildings owned by You
I dont think the items stolen from Mr P and Mr S could fall within that definition. Ive 
reviewed the invoices supplied and I can see the items relate to audio visual equipment. I 
dont consider any of those could constitute scaffolding, site huts or temporary buildings. Ive 
thought about whether they could fall within plant but I dont think that is the case. That term 
isnt further defined in the policy but I think a reasonable dictionary definition would be 
a large, heavy machine or vehicle used in industry, for building roads, etc. That clearly 
wouldnt include the items stolen from Mr P and Mr S. 
So I think HCC acted fairly in turning down the claim on the basis there wasnt cover for the 
loss suffered by Mr P and Mr S. I appreciate HCC also expressed concern about whether 
the items in question were being stored at an insured location. But as Im already satisfied 
those items arent covered by the policy at all I dont need to decide that. 
Ive gone on to consider whether HCC was right to void the policy from the outset. Mr P and 
Mr Ss representatives have suggested the test which should be applied here is that set out 
in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). They say 
given Mr Ss age and experience it would be fair to do that and treat him as an 
unsophisticated policyholder.  
However, CIDRA only applies to consumer insurance contract. A consumer is defined as 
someone who enters into the contract wholly or mainly for purposes unrelated to their trade, 
business, craft or profession. That clearly wasnt the case here as this was a commercial 
policy to protect Mr P and Mr Ss business. And commercial policies are covered by the 
Insurance Act 2015
In some limited circumstances we might nevertheless think it was fair to apply the tests set 
out in CIDRA when considering a commercial complaint. The age and experience of the 
complainant could be relevant when considering this. And I appreciate Mr S appears to have 
been extremely young when the policy was taken out. But as I understand he was assisted 
by a broker when doing that Im not persuaded it would be unfair to apply the provisions set 
out in the Insurance Act. In any case I dont think this is material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Thats because even applying the test set out in CIDRA I think HCC was entitled to void the 
policy. I understand that when taking out the policy Mr S was asked What is your Trade or 
Occupation?. The Statement of Fact (and policy schedule) records Mr S as saying TV 
Aerials and Audio Visual Installer. But I dont think that was correct.  Mr P and Mr Ss 
representatives told HCC the insured business rented out screens, lighting and sound. I 
understand it would then install those for one off client events following a referral from an 
event management company also owned by Mr S. I think thats a different business activity 
to the one recorded in the Statement of Fact. 
And the Statement of Fact says the Insurers have used the information you have supplied 
to determine the terms on which they are prepared to provide the insurance and the 
premium they require. It is extremely important that you check this document most carefully 
to ensure that you have taken care to honestly provide this information and that to the best 
of your knowledge and belief, it is accurate
I think its reasonable to expect Mr S to have provided accurate information about what his 
business did when answering the question HCC asked or to have clarified that with HCC 
once the Statement of Fact was provided to him. And Ive seen underwriting information 
which satisfies me HCC wouldnt have offered cover if provided with correct details about the 
nature of Mr Ss business.  
HCC has accepted the misrepresentation in this case wasnt deliberate or reckless and has 
avoided the policy (meaning the claim Mr P and Mr S made wouldnt be covered in any 
case) and refunded the premiums paid. Thats in line with the remedies set out in both 
CIDRA and the Insurance Act and I think its acted fairly here. My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
22 November 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman