DRN-3853981
The complaint
Miss J complains about R&Quiem Financial Services Limiteds advice to transfer her defined
benefit pension scheme into a Group Personal Pension Plan (GPP), which she says has
disadvantaged her financially. R&Quiem objected to our Service considering this complaint
because they think Miss J referred it too late.
As Miss J is represented by a third party, Ill refer to all submissions as made by Miss J for
ease of reading.
What happened
On 12 January 2023, I issued a provisional decision about this complaint. In it, I set out the 
background to this complaint as follows:
Miss J was a member of her employers defined benefit pension scheme from 1991 until
2000. In 2012, R&Quiem approached Miss J to tell her she was eligible for an enhanced
transfer value if she agreed to transfer the benefits accrued in her defined benefit scheme
into a GPP.
R&Quiem completed a fact-find to gather information about Miss Js circumstances and
objectives. R&Quiem also carried out an assessment of Miss Js attitude to risk, but it has
not, to date, disclosed its assessment.
Miss J was offered a transfer value of £46,740.46 plus an enhancement of £2,305 (£1,654 of
the enhancement could be paid to Miss J in cash). R&Quiem advised Miss J to transfer her
pension benefits into the GPP  but it advised against her taking the enhancement in cash.
Miss J agreed to the transfer, taking the maximum possible of the enhancement in cash
when the transfer of her funds into the GPP was completed in April 2012.
In April 2018, Miss J took a 25% tax-free cash lump sum and has taken further drawdowns
from the remaining funds.
In 2021, Miss J complained to R&Quiem about the advice provided in 2012. She said the
advice to transfer wasnt suitable for her, she wasnt aware of the fees involved in
transferring her pension, she wasnt aware she was giving up a guaranteed income or that
her GPP would be reliant on investment returns.
R&Quiem said it wasnt obliged to respond to Miss Js complaint because it was made too
late  it was more than six years since its advice, and R&Quiem thought more than three
years had passed before Miss J ought reasonably to have been aware she had cause to
complain.
Unhappy with this response, Miss J referred her complaint to our Service. She said she
became aware she had cause to complain around 2019 after receiving a letter from the
provider of her GPP that indicated the value of her pension would be lower than Miss J had
expected. This prompted her to try find out about the transfer. Miss J said she couldnt recall
receiving any paperwork about the transfer process. Miss J said it was only after
complaining about R&Quiems advice to transfer her pension that she became aware she
had been disadvantaged financially.
One of our Investigators reviewed Miss Js complaint and thought it was one we could
consider, saying it was brought to us within three years of when Miss J ought reasonably to
have become aware she had cause to complain. At the time Miss J transferred out her
benefits from her defined benefit scheme, it was projected to give her an income of £5,079
per year. But the statements Miss J received from her GPP provider didnt provide a like for
like comparison. Further, the value of Miss Js GPP continued to grow until she began to
make withdrawals in 2018. So, our investigator didnt think the statements Miss J received
from her GPP provider ought reasonably to have given her cause to complain about the
advice she was given to transfer her pension. And because the value of Miss Js GPP grew
after the transfer of her funds, our Investigator thought it was unlikely Miss J would have
been aware that R&Quiems advice might have caused her to lose out financially. Our
investigator was satisfied it was reasonable for Miss J to have become aware she had cause
to complain after contacting her defined benefit scheme in 2019.
R&Quiem disagreed with our Investigators opinion, noting the 2013 statement for Miss Js
GPP showed a projected income of £2,340 a year in retirement. So it thought this should
have made Miss J aware she had cause to complain about the advice it had given in 2012,
as her DB scheme was projected to pay an income of around £5,000 per year. R&Quiem
noted Miss J switched the funds her GPP was invested into in 2016 so someone with
Miss Js level of understanding would appreciate the difference between the two values of
projected income in retirement. Our investigator explained Miss J switched funds in the
same year she made further transfers into her GPP and remained of the view her complaint
was brought to us in time. So, this has come to me for a decision.
In my provisional decision, I explained I thought Miss J only became aware she had cause to 
complain in 2019, and made her complaint in 2021. So, I thought this complaint was brought 
to us within the relevant time limits. I went on to consider the merits of Miss Js complaint, 
and explained why I thought, on balance, R&Quiem should not have advised her to transfer 
the benefits accrued in her defined benefit scheme into a GPP. I also explained what I 
thought R&Quiem should do to put things right. Miss J accepted my provisional decision but 
R&Quiem didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no substantive comments were provided by either party in response to my provisional 
findings, I see no reason to depart from them. So, Ill reiterate again here my findings in my 
provisional decision of 12 January 2023.
Jurisdiction  is this a complaint I have the power to consider?
If R&Quiem doesnt consent, we cant consider a complaint if it was brought to us:
more than six years after the event theyre complaining about;
or if the six years have passed, more than three years from the date on which the 
consumer became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, that they had 
cause for complaint.
Miss J is complaining about the advice she received from R&Quiem in 2012, which is more
than six years ago. But I dont agree with R&Quiem that Miss J ought reasonably to have
been aware she had cause for complaint in 2012, or 2013 as R&Quiem has suggested. Illexplain why.
In 2012, R&Quiem told Miss J her defined benefit scheme offered fixed pension benefits
based on her length of service within the scheme and her salary when she ceased to be a
scheme member. Her basic pension income, calculated at the date of her leaving the
scheme, was £1,236.76 per annum in the Enhanced Transfer Value (ETV) Report. The
report said:
As at the date you ceased to be an active member under the Scheme, 30 June
2000, you were entitled to a pension income calculated as £1,256.76 pa (before
tax).
In the transfer analysis document, the £5,079 figure is quoted in two illustrations on page 3
and 21 of the document. On page 10 and 14 of the analysis, R&Quiem quotes an annual
pension benefit under the existing scheme of £5,001 and a figure of £5,185 is listed on
page 11. Ive not seen a clear explanation was given to Miss J about the differences in the
values given in the illustrations in the analysis or how those were calculated  and why these
figures were higher than the £1,236.76 per annum figure quoted above.
Furthermore, the suitability letter doesnt make it clear to Miss J what her pension would
likely be worth if she didnt transfer out of her defined benefit scheme. Overall, I dont think it
was sufficiently clear in the documentation given to Miss J that she was giving up an
expected income of over £5,000 a year given the different values given to her. So, I dont
think its reasonable to say Miss J should have known she was likely to receive significantly
less than this when she received her 2013 statement from her GPP provider, which showed
a projected monthly income of around £195 (£2,376 per year) if she retired at 65. I also note 
her fund value grew, and I dont think there were any significant decreases in the fund
value on a yearly basis that ought to have alerted Miss J she should have cause to complain
that she may have been given unsuitable advice to transfer her pension.
Miss J says she realised she may have cause to complain in 2019, after undertaking her
own enquiries with her defined benefit scheme provider. I dont think this is unreasonable,
given what Ive said above. Miss J made her complaint to R&Quiem in 2021, which is within
three years of when I think she ought reasonably to have become aware she had cause to
complain. So, I dont think this complaint has been brought to us too late and it is one we can
consider.
The merits of the complaint
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of R&Quiem's actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them
fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, R&Quiem
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in
Miss Js best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it
was in her best interests.
Financial viability
R&Quiem carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing
how much Miss Js pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the
same benefits as her DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when
the advice was given in this case.
Miss J was around 48 years old at the time of the advice and was unsure when she wanted
to retire. The critical yield required to match Miss Js benefits at age 65 was 7.5% if she took
a full pension and 5.6% if she took tax-free cash (TFC) and a reduced pension. This
compares with the discount rate of 6.3% per year for 16 years to retirement from the time the
transfer went ahead. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time
was 9%, the middle projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%. Whilst the critical
yield rate was marginally lower than the discount rate, the difference is only 0.7%. Further,
the critical yield and the discount rate were above the regulators lower projection rate of 5%,
which I think is the appropriate rate to consider in this case as I think Miss J had a low
attitude to risk for the reasons Ill explain below.
In the suitability letter R&Quiem said it considered Miss Js attitude to risk was adventurous
and she had good investment experience  but I dont think this view is reasonable given the
evidence we have available. Miss J ticked two boxes when asked about her attitude to risk 
she selected Low Risk/Very Cautious. The Aggressive/Adventurous box is also ticked and
dated after Miss J signed the Fact Find, suggesting her answer was revised at a later date.
Theres no context as to why Miss Js answer changed, and no evidence to support the
belief that her attitude to risk was indeed adventurous or aggressive, so I dont think this
answer can be relied on.
Theres also no evidence to substantiate R&Quiems claims that Miss J was an experienced
investor. Following its phone call with Miss J, conducted after she filled in the application
form, R&Quiem ticked the box that indicated she had good investment experience and had
been investing for several years within a broad range of different asset classes and had
knowledge and/or experience of investing in a variety of investments such as cash, fixed
interest, property, UK and overseas shares. This seems to contradict Miss Js initial answerto this question, when she said she has someone who has/is looking after my pension and
happy with him looking after this pension. Further, Miss J indicated she had no savings or
investments on R&Quiems Fact Find and wanted to be a Low Involvement investor
following the transfer  I dont think these answers support the claim she was an
experienced investor. Theres no evidence whatsoever to justify R&Quiem revising Miss Js
Fact Find to show she had good investment experience. And theres no evidence to show
Miss J had the opportunity to confirm the amended answers were indeed correct, which has
led me to treat these amended answers with greater caution. Based on the evidence
available, I think it would have been reasonable to consider Miss J as having a low attitude
to risk  as per her original answer on R&Quiems Fact Find.
Further, R&Quiem failed to undertake any investigation into whether Miss J had the capacity
to lose some or all of these funds. R&Quiem obtained no details of her other pensions. Our
investigator asked Miss J for details of any other pensions Miss J held in 2012. Miss Js
representative has said:
Miss J confirms she had three policies at the time of advice aside from [this]
scheme. She had two occupational schemes, one with [employer A] (administered by
[company A] with approx. 11 years of service and one with [employer B] (now
administered by [company B] with approx. 3 years of service. She also had one
personal pension with [company C] which was active for approx. 5 years.
Unfortunately, she cannot recall any of the values for these schemes and has not
retained any documentation to evidence them.
On R&Quiems Fact Find, I note Miss J ticked no when asked if this pension was the
cornerstone of her retirement planning. But on the other hand, Miss J said she was not sure
how important this pension was in relation to her total pension provision. So, I have treated
Miss Js responses to R&Quiems question about whether this pension was a cornerstone of
her retirement planning with caution. And based on the little information available, I dont
think theres enough evidence to show Miss J had the capacity to risk the loss of this
pension.
Given Miss Js low attitude to risk and the lack of evidence showing she had the capacity to
risk these funds, I think its even more important to emphasise that whilst the critical yield of
5.6% could potentially have been matched, there was little prospect of the value of Miss Js
fund outperforming the critical yield. Without the opportunity to improve on the benefits, in
my view there was little reason to give up the benefits of a guaranteed pension. And I dont
think it would be reasonable to conclude the very small (only £1,654) enhancement Miss J
received  that she didnt intend to use for herself  was sufficient enough reason to advise
her to give up the very valuable guaranteed income provided by her defined benefit pension.
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Miss Js best interests. But,
Ive gone on to consider the other reasons given by R&Quiem in its Suitability letter to
support the recommendation to transfer out, to determine whether doing so was suitable
despite the lower anticipated retirement benefits Miss J would likely receive.
Flexibility and income needs
On R&Quiems Fact Find, Miss J said she would like to have more flexibility and control over
her future pension income  but Miss Js preference alone does not mean R&Quiems
advice to transfer her pension was suitable. I dont think theres any evidence to show
Miss J required flexibility in retirement  theres no evidence in the fact find that suggests
she had a genuine need to access her TFC earlier than the normal scheme retirement age.
Theres also no evidence to suggest Miss J had a strong need for variable income
throughout her retirement.Miss J was unsure when she wanted to retire and so theres no detail of the level of income
shed need in retirement in R&Quiems Fact Find or sales documentation. In her complaint to
our service, she said she was interested in using any cash made available through the
transfer to help her parents repay debt. But theres no evidence to say the merits of taking
this course of action were discussed with Miss J or that R&Quiem satisfied itself Miss J could
not have achieved this by staying in the DB scheme or drawing on her other personal
pensions. Theres also no evidence to demonstrate that R&Quiem considered the impact of
Miss J using her pension in this way on her income in retirement.
So, Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me that Miss J needed flexibility in retirement or
that she wasnt relying on the income the DB scheme provided to support her needs in
retirement.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Miss J, as I note she had sadly
lost her son and wanted to pass on benefits to other family members. But whilst I appreciate
death benefits are important to consumers, and Miss J might have thought it was a good
idea to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was
to advise Miss J about what was best for her retirement provisions.
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think R&Quiem
explored to what extent Miss J was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in
exchange for higher death benefits.
Furthermore, if Miss J genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for her family, which didnt depend
on investment returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her death, I think
R&Quiem shouldve instead explored life insurance. This would likely have been a cheap
alternative of providing a legacy without Miss J risking her own security in retirement.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a GPP justified
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Miss J. And I dont think that insurance was
properly explored as an alternative.
Control of Miss Js pension benefits
I think Miss Js desire for control over her pension benefits was overstated. As Ive explained
above, Miss J declared she was not an experienced investor and R&Quiem acknowledged
she would not be an involved investor in its Fact Find. I cannot see that she had an interest
in or the knowledge to be able to manage her pension funds on her own at the time she was
advised to transfer her benefits. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Miss J
 it was simply a consequence of transferring away from her DB scheme.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Miss J. But
R&Quiem wasnt there to just transact what Miss J might have thought she wanted. The
advisers role was to really understand what Miss J needed and recommend what was in her
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Miss J was suitable. She was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income and I dont think this was suitable for her, given
it was unlikely her transferred pension would exceed the critical yield needed to match the
valuable guaranteed income she was giving up. In my view, the very modest enhancementoffered would not justify a transfer and outweigh this. Miss J shouldnt have been advised to
transfer out of the scheme just to repay debts that were affordable, or werent hers, and the
potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with her
DB scheme.
On balance, I think R&Quiem shouldve advised Miss J to remain in her DB scheme.
Ive considered whether Miss J wouldve gone ahead with the transfer regardless of the
advice she received. But Im not persuaded that any concerns Miss J may have had about
her death benefits were so great that she wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a
professional adviser, whose expertise she was relying on, didnt think it was suitable for her
or in her best interests. And I also dont think the enhancement being offered if Miss J
transferred out of the DB scheme was enough to make her want to proceed with the transfer
even if shed been clearly told it wasnt in her interest to do so. So, I dont think Miss J would
have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think R&Quiem should compensate Miss J for the unsuitable advice,
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Miss J whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
Miss J didnt make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case she doesnt 
want to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Miss J. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Miss J, as far as possible,
into the position she would now be in but for R&Quiems unsuitable advice. I consider Miss J
would have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
R&Quiem must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pensionreview guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, whilst Miss J has withdrawn benefits from her GPP, she has not yet retired and
she has no plans to do so at present. So, I think Miss J has only taken some benefits from
her GPP by virtue of the flexibility she got from transferring  I dont think she wouldve
otherwise taken her DB scheme benefits. For this reason, compensation should be based on
her normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Miss Js acceptance of the decision.
R&Quiem may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain
Miss Js contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation,
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Miss Js
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Miss Js pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Miss J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15%
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount
must where possible be paid to Miss J within 90 days of the date R&Quiem receives
notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes R&Quiem to pay
Miss J.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect R&Quiem to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require R&Quiem Financial 
Services Limited to pay Miss J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally requireR&Quiem Financial Services Limited to pay Miss J any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require R&Quiem 
Financial Services Limited to pay Miss J any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
R&Quiem Financial Services Limited pays Miss J the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Miss J.
If Miss J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on R&Quiem Financial 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Miss J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Miss J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman