DRN-2407873
The complaint
Mr H complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc offered to settle a claim he made under 
his home insurance policy following an escape of water.
What happened
Mr H holds a home insurance policy, which is underwritten by AXA. On 11 April 2020 he 
noticed his kitchen ceiling was damp. Mr H said this was caused by an extensive escape of 
water from his central heating system into the space between the upstairs bedroom floor and 
kitchen ceiling.
On 14 April 2020 Mr H reported the damage to AXA in order to make a claim under his 
policy. AXA instructed a building surveyor (B) to attend Mr Hs property and inspect the 
damage sustained. 
B visited Mr Hs home on 21 April 2020. During its attendance it inspected the kitchen 
ceiling. It subsequently provided a report to AXA, which attached photographs and confirmed 
the extent of the visible damage and how it could be repaired. It recommended AXA resolve 
Mr Hs claim by a patch repair, which involved skimming the existing ceiling plaster and 
repainting it.
Mr H disagreed with the remedy AXA proposed. He said the repair offered was cosmetic 
only and said the nails holding the plasterboard up had suffered water damage. He felt it was 
obvious from the visible damage on the kitchen ceiling that water had soaked through the 
existing plaster board and through the plaster. And he was concerned that no consideration 
had been given to whether the plaster board and ceiling joists had been damaged, which 
might only become evident later. He thought a fuller investigation was warranted. So, he 
rejected AXAs proposed resolution to settle his claim and complained. 
AXA investigated Mr Hs concerns about how it was proposing to settle his claim and sent 
him its final response to his complaint on 8 June 2020. In its final response letter, AXA told 
Mr H it wasnt upholding his complaint. It said it had acted reasonably in relying on Bs report 
and was satisfied, after reviewing the scope of work B had drawn up, that it had offered a fair 
resolution to his claim. It also explained that if any further damage was identified whilst 
repairs were being completed it would look to cover the additional damage.
Unhappy with this, Mr H brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator empathised 
with him but didnt recommend upholding this complaint. They agreed with the resolution 
AXA had proposed and didnt require it to do anything else to settle Mr Hs complaint. But Mr 
H disagreed with our investigators view of his complaint and asked an ombudsman to 
review it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr H experienced here. I know he feels very strongly 
about this matter. And I appreciate the reasons hes brought this complaint to our service. 
I understand that Mr H has raised a number of complaints about other issues affecting his 
escape of water claim and Ive seen the final response letters AXA sent him about those 
matters. Hes also raised new additional concerns with our service, which I understand have 
not yet been properly considered by AXA. 
I wish to be clear for Mr Hs benefit that this complaint reference deals only with the 
concerns he raised with our service about whether AXA offered a fair settlement insofar as 
the remedial work to his kitchen ceiling is concerned. Ill therefore limit the scope of this 
decision to whether I think AXA erred, or treated Mr H unfairly, in how it offered to repair his 
ceiling  such that it needs to now put things right. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Id like to thank Mr H and AXA for the 
level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive read and considered all the information 
provided and, if I havent specifically referred to a point that Mr H or AXA have made it isnt 
because I havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the key issues, 
which is an approach that reflects the informal nature of this service.
Theres no dispute that water damage occurred to Mr Hs kitchen ceiling. However, theres a 
dispute between Mr H, AXA and its appointed agents about the correct outcome of this 
claim. 
AXA has proposed to settle Mr Hs claim by a patch repair. But Mr H doesnt feel that 
proposal is adequate. As I set out in the background to this complaint, hes unhappy that the 
scope of works recommended by B only covers visible damage. Hes also concerned there 
may be damage to the ceiling joists and plasterboard, which isnt yet visible. And he believes 
AXA have offered him a cost avoidance solution.
In determining whether AXA acted reasonably in offering to settle Mr Hs claim Ive carefully 
considered the evidence from both parties.
Ill address Mr Hs concerns about the adequacy of Bs inspection first. Its clear that he has 
concerns about the time B spent assessing the damage to his kitchen ceiling. He says B was 
at his home for 10 minutes and he said only a cursory inspection took place during its visit. 
But I can see B provided a detailed report to AXA, which I think shows it undertook an 
appropriate inspection here. The report it produced is similar in detail and length to those 
seen by our service in similar claims. And it contains the information Id expect to see. Like 
our investigator, I wouldnt expect B to open the kitchen ceiling to assess damage here. Im 
therefore not upholding this part of Mr Hs concerns.
In addition to taking issue with the adequacy of Bs inspection, Mr H has also taken issue 
with the qualifications of the surveyor who attended his home. I recognise that hes unhappy 
with the opinion B provided. But B is a recognised organisation that regularly assesses 
property damage on behalf of insurers. So, it isnt unreasonable for AXA to use, and rely on, 
Bs knowledge and expertise in assessing a claim for ceiling damage. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest that the surveyor who provided a report to AXA wasnt appropriately 
qualified. Im therefore not upholding this part of Mr Hs complaint.
Ill turn now to whether AXAs proposal to settle Mr Hs claim is reasonable. But before I do, I 
want to assure Mr H that I understand his concerns about potential undetected water 
damage that might only become apparent in the future. And I appreciate why he might be 
worried about potential future damage. It appears Mr H wants AXA to replace his kitchen ceiling. But Im not persuaded this would be a reasonable resolution to his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Currently AXA is only able to authorise remedial work if it can be evidenced and seen. This 
is an approach our service would endorse. So, I cant find AXA has been unfair in the 
approach its taken here.
Given Mr Hs dissatisfaction with the scope of works recommended by B, AXA explained to 
him on a number of occasions that it would revisit his claim if he provided two estimates 
showing the cause, nature and extent of damage and a full breakdown of the scope of works 
required to restore his property to its pre-loss state. This was a reasonable approach for 
AXA to take here.
Mr H has told AXA and our service that he was unable to obtain quotes from tradesmen due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions. However, while I empathise that he may have 
encountered difficulties in obtaining quotes from tradesmen, I can only form an opinion on 
this complaint based on the evidence before me. And, as Mr H hasnt provided AXA, or our 
service, with any evidence discrediting Bs opinion as to the remedial work required to put 
his property right, I cant fairly conclude that AXA erred in how it assessed and dealt with this 
claim.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied AXA dealt with Mr Hs concerns about unseen 
damage reasonably. I say this because it told him settling his claim doesnt mean the claim 
is settled for good. And its provided an assurance to him that if further damage is noted 
once the repairs commence it would look to cover the cost. I think this is a fair and proper 
approach for AXA to take. I dont think it can reasonably be expected to offer anything further 
at the stage of Mr Hs claim.
While Ive taken on board everything Mr H has said about this complaint, I havent seen any 
evidence to demonstrate that the patch repair AXA has proposed in resolution of this claim is 
inappropriate. Im not persuaded its a cost avoidance tactic as Mr H believes. And, in the 
overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied AXA acted fairly and reasonably in 
offering to settle Mr Hs claim. 
I understand Mr H hasnt yet informed AXA how he wishes to proceed with his claim  Ill 
leave it up to him to contact it further about this. This now brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with AXA informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr H any 
further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman