DRN-2281660
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car he took on hire purchase from Blue Motor Finance Ltd wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr B took a car on hire purchase from Blue Motor Finance. The cash price 
was just over £9,000 and the car was a little over three years old with a recorded mileage of 
nearly 33,000.
In or about April 2019 Mr B says he began experiencing problems with the car. The engine
management light (EML) was coming on and the engine was mis-firing and going into limp
mode, losing power. He contacted the dealership, which inspected the car and carried out
some repairs  replacing coils and spark plugs.
Mr B says however that this didnt resolve the issues with the car, and it broke down a 
couple of days later. Although Mr B was able to re-start the car, he again suffered a loss of
power. He says he carried out his own checks using his diagnostic testing kit, which 
indicated mis-firing.
Around a week later the dealership carried out a 100-mile road test. It identified that cylinder
injectors had been swapped, but once they had been swapped back there were no warning
messages and no problems during the test drive.
In July 2019 Mr B obtained a report from an engineer, E, which concluded that the car was
not fit for purpose and unroadworthy. Mr B contacted Blue Motor Finance to say that, despite 
repairs, there were still problems with the car. Blue Motor Finance arranged for a further 
inspection to be carried out, this time by a company, S. That inspection didnt identify any 
faults, and the engineer didnt report any warning lights or defect codes. It did suggest 
certain pieces of routine maintenance that might resolve the issues that had been reported. 
Blue Motor Finance wrote to Mr B to say that it didnt uphold his complaint. The most recent 
inspection hadnt established that there were any obvious faults with the vehicle, and so it 
felt it had no responsibility.
Our initial assessment
Mr B referred the complaint to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. She
thought that Mr B had shown that the car was not of satisfactory quality and that he was
therefore entitled to reject it and cancel the hire purchase agreement. She recommended
that Blue Motor Finance refund all the payments Mr B had made, with interest.
Blue Motor Finance didnt agree with the investigators recommendations and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
My provisional decision
Because I didnt agree with the investigators initial conclusions and to give the parties (and 
in particular Mr B) an opportunity to make further submissions, I issued a provisional 
decision. I set out below the reasons for my provisional findings:
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the hire purchase agreement was to be treated as
including a term that the car would be of satisfactory quality. Goods are of satisfactory
quality if they meet the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking
account of all relevant circumstances, including the price. In my view, relevant
circumstances here also include the age of the car and its mileage.
Mr B has reported an intermittent fault with the car, which Ive described above. Hes said
too that repairs carried out to the car havent resolved it. Hes also provided photos and a
video of the EML flickering. I have taken into account his evidence about the car  including
of course his accounts of what happened. As well as that though, there have been three
inspections of the car following the repairs carried out by the dealership. They were:
a road test carried out by the dealership in May 2019;
the [E] inspection in July 2019; and
the [S] test carried out in August 2019.
Of these, only the [E] inspection report concluded that the car wasnt of satisfactory
quality. I have therefore considered carefully the reason for the different conclusion. The 
report says that the car was presented with a history of misfiring on cylinders 2 and 3.
Thats consistent with Mr Bs own tests and with what the dealership identified before it
carried out its 100-mile road test. It is therefore a statement of what Mr B reported to the
engineer, not what the engineer found in his own inspection.
The report goes on to say that the engines plugs, coils and injectors were inspected and
tested and found to be working as they should. It continues: Faults persist in cylinders 2 and
3 which would be consistent with no faults being found with those parts. It isnt however
apparent from the report on what basis the engineer has concluded that there is a fault in the
cylinders; he hasnt suggested that the engine was mis-firing at the time of inspection, that
hed identified that from any diagnosis carried out at the time or that any warning lights had
been seen. It appears therefore that this conclusion was based on what Mr B had told the
engineer, rather than on what the engineer actually observed. The reports overall
conclusion  that further investigation is needed  is consistent with the engineer not having
identified a problem.
Two other inspections and tests  one carried out before the [E] inspection, and one
carried out after it  didnt identify any problems with the car.
In addition, Mr B has provided photographs and a video of the EML flickering. I dont believe
however, given the inspection reports, that I can fairly say this shows the car was not of
satisfactory quality at the point of delivery.
I have no reason to doubt what Mr B has said about the problems hes had with the car.
Those problems dont however appear to have come to light until around seven months after
he acquired it and havent been apparent when third parties have investigated. Three
separate inspections havent managed to identify the source of the problem reported by Mr B
(save for the swapping of cylinder injectors); none has observed the problem he reported. A
number of possible causes and resolutions have been put forward for the problem reported 
some matters of relatively minor routine maintenance, some more serious  but no firm
conclusion has been reached.
For these reasons, I didnt think I could fairly conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when Mr B took it on hire purchase. Mr Bs response to my provisional decision
After he received my provisional conclusions, Mr B arranged for a further inspection and 
diagnostic test. He said the mechanic identified a coolant leak, the repair of which would cost 
around £200. 
The diagnostic test also indicated that the engine was mis-firing in two cylinders, 
demonstrating that the replacement of plugs and coils hadnt resolved the problems with the 
car. Mr B provided evidence in the form of screenshots of the diagnostic test and a quote for 
repairs. 
Mr B also commented further on the report which had been prepared by S. He felt it had 
been rushed; it hadnt identified the coolant leaks and hadnt involved a test drive. He said 
too that the mis-firing issue had been present both before and immediately after the test.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I indicated in my provisional decision, I have no reason to doubt what Mr B has told us 
about the problems hes had with the car. I accept too that those problems are continuing  
as evidenced by the recent diagnostic test. 
I also said in my provisional decision, however, that three separate inspections hadnt 
revealed the source of those problems, but that a number of possible explanations had been 
put forward for them. Some of those explanations indicated a relatively minor source of the 
problem, consistent with routine maintenance being required; some were more serious. 
I noted too that Mr B hadnt reported any issues with the car until around seven months after 
he took delivery of it. And the issue I have to consider is not whether Mr B experienced 
problems with car (I accept both that he did and that those problems havent been resolved), 
but whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the time he entered into the hire purchase 
agreement. I dont believe I can properly assume that faults emerging after seven months 
were present at the time of delivery. 
Whilst Im grateful to Mr B for providing further evidence in response to my provisional 
decision, that evidence again doesnt really reach any conclusions about the reason or 
reasons for the mis-firing; nor does it express any view on whether the problems described 
by Mr B and confirmed by the diagnostic test were likely to have been present at the time of 
delivery. To that extent, therefore, the evidence doesnt demonstrate anything new.  
As Ive indicated, Mr B also provided evidence of an issue with the engines cooling system  
which S hadnt identified in its report. Again, however, the report doesnt comment on 
whether this was likely to have been present or developing at the time of supply, the 
underlying causes or whether this is an issue of routine maintenance. And again, its an 
issue that came to light some time after delivery of the car. I dont believe I can fairly 
conclude that it was something that was present in October 2018 or that it meant that car 
was not of satisfactory quality. 
In summary, therefore, I accept that the car has had and continues to have problems. In the 
circumstances, however, I dont believe I can safely conclude that this means it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when Mr B took out the hire purchase agreement.      
My final decisionFor these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Blue Motor Finance Ltd to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman