DRN-2461970
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc offered him a higher interest rate on a loan instead of one 
which was advertised on their website.
What happened
Mr B wanted an unsecured personal loan and saw that TSB had a headline rate of 2.8% so 
applied for a loan with them on 29 July 2020. TSB accepted his application but offered him a 
rate of 6.9%. The last day for the loan to be processed was 28 August 2020.
Mr B complained to TSB as he felt that he should get the 2.8% interest rate based on his 
credit file showing an excellent rating, no late payments, low credit utilisation, low short 
term debt and also complained regarding poor experiences with the system and customer 
service. TSB said they enclosed a cheque for £30 which was £25 for the customer service 
issues and £5 to cover the cost of phone calls but explained the 2.8% is the lowest possible 
rate which can be offered and 39.9% was the maximum interest rate.
Mr B then tried to complete the loan process on 28 August 2020 and had four phone calls 
with TSB. The first call handler explained that as Mr B didnt have a current account with 
them, it can take up to two working days for the funds to be paid. Mr B asked to speak to a 
manager, but as one wasnt available the call handler attempted to take his telephone 
number, then the line cut off. The second and third call handlers explained the lending 
department were extremely busy but attempted to put Mr B through to them. The last call 
was the original handler ringing him back and informed Mr B that to complete the application 
they would have to validate his bank details electronically to meet anti money laundering 
regulations.
TSB said that if the electronic verification didnt validate these details then then Mr B would 
need to supply supporting evidence. The system verification wasnt successful and as he 
wasnt able to supply supporting evidence by the deadline there wasnt enough time for the 
application to be completed. 
Mr B complained to TSB for them not offering him the rate of 2.8% considering his credit 
score, the time taken for them to respond to his original complaint and poor customer 
service. They explained again that the rate offered is after consideration with other factors, 
not based solely on his credit rating. They acknowledged that they had 8 weeks to respond 
to his original complaint and that they were well within this timeframe, however, due to the 
frustration and inconvenience suffered by Mr B they said they would send a cheque for £25 
in the next few working days and informed him of his rights to take his complaint to our 
service which he did.
The investigator said that TSB does not need to take any further action. He felt that TSB 
advertised the rate correctly and while Mr B may have had a good credit score  thats only 
one factor TSB would consider when assessing an application. He also said that the 
amounts offered for compensation were fair too.
 
TSB accepted the view of the investigator, but Mr B did not. He asked for the case to be 
referred to an ombudsman and wanted specific reasons why he couldnt get the 2.8% 
interest rate. He also felt he shouldve had more time to have considered his options and 
that TSB has offered him a new loan at a considerably higher rate, which he feels is because 
he has complained here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a number of points to both TSB and this service and Ive considered and 
read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body Ill only be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here.
TSB have explained that they dont just use credit scores when they offer an unsecured 
personal loan. So while I know Mr B thinks he should have been offered the loan at the 
headline rate  that was never a guarantee  even with a history of good credit. The terms of 
the loan made that clear too. Having looked at what TSB have sent  Im satisfied that they 
treated Mr Bs application fairly  and as they would any other customer that was applying in 
these circumstances. That didnt result in Mr B getting the rate he wanted or expected  but 
deciding that rate was something that TSB were entitled to do as a business.
I agree Mr B has the right to ask the specific reason(s) he did not get the 2.8% interest rate 
and TSB explained that the interest rate offered is based on a number of factors. I 
appreciate this doesnt go into the level of detail Mr B wanted, but I think its a fair 
explanation of how they determine the rate offered. I dont think they needs to go into further 
detail  especially where some of what Mr B wants to know might be commercially sensitive 
to TSB.
Given the information provided as a part of the application  I think both parties understood 
that the loan had to be processed by 28 August 2020. I realise that Mr B emailed TSBs 
Chief Executive Officer to ask further questions about the situation. But while I understand 
the reasons why Mr B wanted to wait for a response, this did not change the deadline date of 
the loan and TSB were under no obligation to extend this. So when Mr B tried to complete 
the process on the final day of the deadline, Ive seen that the staff he spoke to tried their 
best to assist him. Unfortunately the verification of the bank details could not be completed in 
time though, as he was unable to provide the required documents in time. That will have 
been frustrating for Mr B  but I dont think itd be fair to hold TSB liable for this here.
I can understand Mr Bs concerns here - as hes had multiple phone calls with TSB. But I 
think that TSB have been fair in compensating him initially with £30 and a further £25.
Lastly, I know Mr B feels the issue of the new loan application should be dealt with in this 
complaint but because he has not complained to TSB regarding this issue, I cant comment 
on this as part of this complaint. He can make a new complaint regarding the new 
application, but I wont be commenting on it here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021. Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman