DRN-3604021
The complaint
Mr G complains that he was misled by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) about the cover 
provided by his Current Account plus Travel Pack (CATP), and he says he lost out as a 
result.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings and forms part of this final decision:
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G originally had a Current Account Plus and this migrated into a CATP (with Tech Pack 
also) in 2016.
Mr G says that he phoned Barclays in 2019 and was told that the car breakdown 
component of the CATP did cover his partner, when, in fact, it didnt, and she made a 
journey without any breakdown cover.
And Mr G says that he was not informed his partner had been removed from his travel 
insurance cover benefit in February 2021, and he continued paying for the CATP for several 
months when he otherwise wouldnt have done so.
Barclays has provided evidence that it has checked all its records relating to 2019, and it 
has provided copies of those records to this service. Ive reviewed them and there is no 
mention of a call from Mr G or any discussion with him at that time.
So, while I acknowledge that Mr G is adamant he made the call and I dont doubt his honest 
recollections, I think its more likely than not that his memory is mistaken, and Barclays 
didnt
tell him the car breakdown benefit covered his partner.
Page 2 of 
2
However, Barclays has admitted that it informed Mr G incorrectly in February 2021 that 
his partners travel insurance was continuing as a benefit, when in fact, it was being 
removed.
Mr G says that he would have stopped paying for the CATP in February 2021 if hed 
been correctly informed, as he subsequently did in June 2021.
I can see the CATP was less valuable to him without his partners travel cover, and that he 
did act to stop the CATP once he knew of the change. So, I think its more likely than not 
that he would have closed the CATP in January if hed been correctly informed.
So, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this part of his complaint.
Putting things right
Im minded to require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Pay Mr G the amount Mr G paid each month for the CATP from 
February 2021 until it was closed in June 2021.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid them until he gets 
them back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr G has saved money because of a better rate on his overdraft or any loan 
by having the packaged account and Barclays can show exactly how much Mr 
G saved, it may deduct his savings from the amount it pays him  but only 
after it has calculated the two points above. Barclays must explain clearly and 
simply to Mr G how it has worked out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclays must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my final decision, Mr G had no further comments, and Barclays accepted my 
provisional conclusions.
So, my conclusions remain as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr G redress as specified in the Putting things right 
section of my provisional decision. For clarity Barclays may deduct that part of the fees Mr G 
paid from February 2021 to June 2021 that it has already refunded to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Gs complaint and require Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to pay him redress as specified above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 Richard Hill
Ombudsman