DRN-3400612
The complaint
Mr K complains that Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd (trading as Sterling Insurance 
Services) didnt cancel his motor insurance policy when asked but kept on asking him for 
further information. He said it didnt accept his information, so Mr K felt forced to cancel the 
policy and he incurred cancellation fees. 
What happened
Mr K took out a non-advised policy through Sterling. He was asked to provide documentation 
to validate the policy. When he sent this, he said Sterling didnt accept it. Mr K said he asked 
to cancel the policy, but Sterling asked for the same information again. 
Eventually, the policy was cancelled, and Mr K was charged for his time on cover and 
cancellation fees. Sterling said these had been applied in keeping with its Terms of 
Business, but it reduced its charge for lost commission as a gesture of goodwill. But Mr K 
remained unhappy. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Sterling 
hadnt mis-sold the policy as it had provided Mr K with sufficient, clear and non-misleading 
information about it before he decided to buy it. She thought it was entitled to ask for 
supporting documentation and some of that provided by Mr K was out of date. 
She thought Mr K had asked to cancel the policy, but then he agreed to provide further 
documentation. She thought Sterling had correctly cancelled the policy due to Mr K not 
providing the information it needed. And she thought it had applied cancellation charges in 
keeping with its Terms of Business.  
Mr K replied that he didnt agree. Mr K asked for an Ombudsmans review, so his complaint 
has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Ks feelings of hurt and upset caused by his experiences with 
Sterling. I can understand that it must be very frustrating trying to understand and respond to 
its enquiries when they are not in his first language. Mr K has told us that he wants his 
money back, in full. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted 
in line with its Terms of Business and fairly and reasonably.
I can see from the file that Mr K first tried to take out a policy over the phone, but he 
abandoned this. He then applied for a policy online. So the sale was non-advised. But, as 
our Investigator has already explained, wed still expect Sterling to provide him with enough 
clear, fair and non-misleading information about the policy so that he could make an 
informed choice about whether the policy suited his needs. 
Ive looked at the information Sterling provided before the sale. I can see that it provided its 
Privacy Notice and its Terms of Business. Both of these state that documents may be 
required to validate the policy. I dont think this is unusual. 
And I think the documents requested before the policy started werent unusual either. These 
were Mr Ks proof of No Claims Bonus (NCB), his driving licence DVLA check code, a copy 
of the cars V5 registration document, and a Limited Mileage Declaration. 
So I think Mr K was provided with clear information about the policy and the validation 
documents required so that he could make an informed choice about whether or not the 
policy suited his needs. And so I dont think the policy was mis-sold to him.
But Mr K said Sterling bombarded him with requests for these documents. And he said he 
felt he had to cancel the policy. Ive looked at the documents that Mr K sent to Sterling. He 
sent in the Limited Mileage Declaration. But the licence check code was invalid, and I cant 
see that he provided proof of his NCB or his V5. 
So Sterling repeatedly asked Mr K for these documents and I think it reasonably warned him 
that the policy may be cancelled if they werent provided in a timely manner. Mr K thought 
Sterling could have asked his previous insurer for these. But I think Sterling correctly 
explained it couldnt do this because of data protection rules. 
Mr K told Sterling that he wanted to cancel. But when it explained the charges that would be 
applied, he changed his mind. And he then agreed for Sterling to write to him again 
explaining the documents it required. So I cant say that Sterling didnt cancel the policy as 
Mr K requested. 
Two months after the policy had started, Sterling still hadnt received all the requested 
documents. So it sent Mr K seven days notice of cancellation of the policy. And then it 
cancelled the policy and applied its and the insurers cancellation charges. 
I think Sterling gave Mr K ample time to provide the requested documents, but he didnt do 
so. And so I think it fairly and reasonably cancelled his policy. 
If Mr K is unhappy with the insurers charge for his time on cover and its cancellation charge, 
then he should complain directly to it. I cant consider this here as its a separate business to 
Sterling. 
Ive looked at Sterlings Terms of Business, which Mr K agreed to when he bought the policy, 
and I can see that the cancellation charges are clearly set out. So I cant say it was unfair for 
Sterling to apply them or ask it to give Mr K a full refund. 
Sterling did reduce its charge for its lost commission to the minimum, as a gesture of 
goodwill, which I think was fair in the circumstances. I dont require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman