DRN-2551068
The complaint
Mr M complains hes been treated unfairly by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as 
NatWest) when looking to change his mortgage interest rate. 
What happened
Mr M had an offset mortgage with NatWest which he first took in 2005. He moved house in 
2016 and took this mortgage with him. In late 2020 Mr M wanted to change this to a 
standard residential mortgage with a new rate. The rate he was offered was higher than that 
offered to new customers, and he was charged an arrangement fee of £995. So, he 
complained to NatWest. Mr Ms new mortgage with NatWest completed in early 2021.
NatWest didnt agree it had done anything wrong. It explained that rates offered to existing 
customers may not always be the lowest available, but this was something it was entitled to 
do. It said it hadnt handled his complaint as well as it should and offered Mr M £50 
compensation for this.
Mr M didnt accept this and referred the complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into things. Our investigator explained that NatWest is entitled to set its 
mortgage rates as it sees fit. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr M didnt agree and responded in detail. He said that rates offered to existing customers 
should be the same as those offered to new customers. He said that hed been charged a 
£995 arrangement fee as well as a deeds release fee of £18 and a Chaps fee of £36. He 
didnt think these fees were fair either. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me.
I reviewed the complaint and explained I didnt think NatWest shouldve charged the deeds 
release fee or the Chaps fee given that the deeds hadnt been released and no money was 
transferred by Chaps. NatWest agreed to refund these fees. Mr M accepted the refund of 
these fees but remained unhappy with the fact that hed been charged an arrangement fee 
and a higher rate compared to those available to new customers. So, the complaint has 
been passed back to me to review and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has agreed to accept a refund of the deeds release fee and the Chaps fee. Ive already 
explained I think these were incorrectly applied, and that the refund fairly resolves this. So I 
wont comment on this part of the complaint further. 
Moving on to the complaint about the interest rate offered, I want to reassure Mr M that I 
have considered everything hes said. I may not respond in detail to every point hes made. I 
mean no disrespect by this, it simply reflects the informal nature of this service. Instead Ill 
focus on what I consider the crux of the remaining complaint to be  that new customers can 
access lower mortgage rates than existing customers.
As the majority of active mortgage lenders do, NatWest offers new fixed and variable interest 
rate products to most customers who would otherwise move onto the standard variable rate. 
However, not all rates are offered to all customers. NatWest will set criteria to decide who 
can take which rates. Typically factors such as the loan to value will be taken into account 
when making these decisions. In Mr Ms case, he complains that he was excluded from 
certain products because he was an existing borrower, rather than new to NatWest.
NatWest wants to attract new customers, so at times it reserves its most competitive rates 
for them. NatWest has explained a number of factors are taken into consideration when 
setting rates, and that existing customers may not always be able to obtain the cheapest rate 
it offers, and that Mr M may indeed find a cheaper rate with another lender. 
Ultimately, NatWest is a commercial organisation. And it is dependent on its ability to both 
retain customers but also attract new customers. As other lenders do, it sets the prices it 
charges based on various factors  including its costs, but also including the emphasis it 
wants to place at the time on attracting and retaining different types of customers. 
The rules of mortgage regulation require lenders to treat their customers fairly. But within 
that theres a broad commercial discretion available in how they run their businesses  and 
set their prices. NatWest is required to treat its customers fairly. But treating each customer 
fairly doesnt mean it must treat all customers the same. It is, in my view, fair and reasonable 
for NatWest to set different prices to attract particular groups of customers. And whilst this 
may mean Mr M pays slightly more than a new customer, this is a decision its entitled to 
make. Based on this, I dont think NatWest has treated Mr M unfairly. 
NatWest made Mr M aware of the rate it was willing to offer him, and the product fee he 
would have to pay. And it was his choice whether to proceed, or to look to move to another 
lender. Whilst I appreciate why Mr M feels hes been treated unfairly, Ive set out why I dont 
think thats the case. So, Im not going to ask NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to 
refund the Chaps fee of £36 and the deeds release fee of £18. I make no award in relation to 
the complaint about the interest rate offered.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman