DRN-3443176
The complaint and what happened
Mr J, in his capacity as the director of a limited company which Ill refer to as M, complains 
that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont reimburse in full the money M lost to an investment 
scam.
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
in detail here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points and focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision:
Mr J was looking to re-invest Ms funds to maximise interest earnings. He came 
across an investment opportunity after completing a web form and receiving a call 
from an individual who discussed his needs. Unfortunately, the company that Mr J 
was recommended had been impersonating a well-known financial business. 
Mr J only realised that hed been scammed after hed already parted with £77,000  
hed noticed a discrepancy in his portfolio balance and ended up ringing the genuine 
business after looking up its complaints departments phone number on the internet. 
HSBC accepted it should have done more to protect Ms money before it executed 
the payment instruction. But it also held Mr J equally liable on the basis that he didnt 
conduct proper checks into the investment opportunity before making the payment. 
HSBC re-imbursed 50% of the amount that M had lost.
Our investigator concluded that Mr J had a reasonable basis for belief in who he was 
paying and was due full reimbursement under the Lending Standard Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. He asked HSBC to refund the 
remaining 50% along with interest. HSBC disagreed that Mr J had a reasonable 
basis for belief and so the matter was escalated for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
HSBC is a signatory of the CRM code which requires firms to reimburse customers 
who have been victims of authorised push payment fraud, except in limited 
circumstances. Those exceptions are:
oThe customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being 
made.
oThe customer made the payment without reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment 
was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person with whom they 
transacted was legitimate.
HSBC hasnt relied on Mr J ignoring an effective warning in deciding not to reimburse 
him in full. Rather, it doesnt believe that Mr J had a reasonable basis for belief. So, 
Ive carefully considered the arguments HSBC has put forward in relation to this.
I dont agree with HSBCs assertion that Mr J departed from his no cold calls rule on 
this occasion. In his submissions to HSBC, Mr J explained that he had completed an 
online questionnaire. In my view, a call-back in such a situation doesnt constitute as 
being cold called. For all intents and purposes, the call wasnt unsolicited  even if at 
first Mr J wasnt sure who he was speaking to. Mr J did attempt to independently 
verify the identity of caller, but this was a sophisticated scam and the phone number 
listed on the business website also turned out to be fake. 
I dont think the correspondence Mr J received ought to have led him to be 
particularly concerned about whether he was dealing with a genuine financial 
business. The promotional literature and the email correspondence from the 
scammer looked reasonably professional. The literature had quite convincing and 
professional looking features, including information about the Financial Conduct 
Authority and the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. 
Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr Js belief that he was dealing with a genuine 
business was reasonable. He checked the business website and logged on to the 
customer portal before deciding to invest. He also spoke to his financial advisor 
about the returns. I dont think the rate of return was so high that Mr J ought to have 
thought the opportunity was too good to be true. 
I dont agree with HSBCs suggestion that Mr J didnt carry out proper checks 
because he made general enquiries instead of seeking formal advice from his 
financial advisor. Mr J has said that the reason for contacting his financial adviser 
was to check that the business hed been recommended offered a competitive return. 
That he chose to invest without obtaining advice formally was a matter for his 
judgement in relation to the suitability of the investment. It doesnt imply that Mr J 
didnt carry out sufficient checks into the authenticity of the investment, or that he 
wasnt vigilant to scams. 
While acknowledging that Mr J could have done more  as can most customers  
overall, Im not satisfied that HSBC has established he didnt have a reasonable 
basis for belief that he was paying a legitimate person/business for genuine goods or 
services. It follows that Im not persuaded that the exception for reasonable basis for 
belief applies to Mr J, such that HSBC can choose to hold him jointly liable for the 
financial loss suffered by M.
Putting things right
To put things rights, HSBC UK Bank Plc needs to:
reimburse the remaining 50% of Ms loss; and
add 8% simple interest per year to that sum, less any lawfully deductible tax, 
calculated from the date it declined to offer a full refund to the date of settlement. It 
has been our approach for many years to add interest at 8% simple on loss in these 
types of situation and I see no reason to depart from that here.  My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to put matters right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman