DRN-3171803
The complaint
Mr W is seeking to recover around £14,800 from The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op); a 
payment he made as a result of a third-party scam.
What happened
Mr W received a message on social media from someone claiming to be a well-known 
presenter of a series exploring investments including bitcoin and cryptocurrency. The 
presenter messaged Mr W and encouraged him to invest in bitcoin and offered to mine it on 
his behalf to increase its value.
As Mr W had seen an investment series presented by this individual recently, he was 
convinced it was the well- known presenter. Mr W used a forum to find a bitcoin seller and 
under the fraudsters instruction opened a wallet with a third-party cryptocurrency exchange 
to place the purchased bitcoin. Mr W shared his cryptocurrency exchange log in details and 
password with the fraudster on the understanding that the fraudster would mine the bitcoin 
on his behalf.
Mr W made the following transactions:
Transaction Value Date
£3,000 24 June 2020
£1,500 25 June 2020
£2,900 29 June 2020
£7,418.26 3 July 2020
Initially, the investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said the complaint wasnt covered 
by the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM code) because it concerned a 
legitimate purchase and there was no loss caused in the transactions between Mr Ws Co-op 
account and the bitcoin seller. However, she reconsidered the position and felt that the final 
payment Mr W made, ought to have caused Co-op concern Mr W was at risk of financial 
harm. She felt that if Co-op had intervened by the fourth transaction, it ought to have realised 
that Mr W was falling victim to a cryptocurrency scam. 
Mr W still felt all four transactions should have triggered but accepted the offer to refund the 
final payment as outlined in the investigators letter.
Co-op didnt agree. It said the transfers processed by the bank reached the intended 
destination and it cannot be held responsible for the actions of a customer thereafter. It feels 
Mr Ws actions with regards to his bitcoin account were irresponsible and he recklessly 
divulged his log in details to a fraudster.
 
It considers that a sending firms liability concludes when the payment instruction is executed 
in accordance with the customers instruction, where that payment successfully reaches its 
intended destination and the amount transmitted complies with the customers instruction.
As the case could not be resolved informally, it was been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im also required to take into account:
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice;
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant
time.
It is not in dispute that Mr W authorised the payments. Mr W was duped into sending funds 
from his bank account to a cryptocurrency exchange where he purchased cryptocurrency 
from genuine sellers. The scammers deceived him over social media into thinking he was 
making a legitimate cryptocurrency investment for further trading. So, although Mr W did not 
intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, 
and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr W is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
As the investigator explained, Mr Ws complaint is not covered by the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). This is because the payments were made to a 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange from where Mr W transferred the purchased 
cryptocurrency into an account in his own name with second exchange company. So, 
because the payment didnt go directly to the scammer from Mr Ws Co-op account, its not 
covered by the CRM Code. 
And it doesnt automatically follow that Co-op is liable for a loss, just because a customer is 
a victim of fraud.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
What can be considered unusual or uncharacteristic activity clearly requires reference to 
common activity on the account. So, Ive looked back at the account statements as far as 
December 2019. 
The first payment did in fact flag on Co-ops systems. As a result, it sent Mr W a text 
message asking him to confirm the transaction as genuine. There is a balance to be struck 
between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments and it would be impossible to prevent all fraud without a significant 
number of genuine payments being delayed considerably and inconveniently. It remains that 
the payment wasnt fraud on the account itself. To the bank, it was a genuinely authorised 
payment. And Mr W was confirming this was the case. On the face of it, it seems to me that 
that there was no reason why the payment wouldnt have seemed genuine, after the check 
Co-op made had been carried out. I dont think there was enough suspicion about the size of 
the payment, that Co-op needed to do more. I think the text message it sent was 
proportionate in the circumstances. The two payments that followed were similar and Co-op 
no longer holds any records of whether these payments triggered on its systems  but by 
now they were to the same known payee and the amounts were relatively small  so I dont 
think Co-op needed to intervene at this point.
But I think the payment on 3 July 2020 was unusual and uncharacteristic for Mr W and the 
account. There had been no comparable legitimate payments in recent times  with the 
largest amount being the £3,000 on the 24 June 2020. In my opinion, the payment for 
£7,418 was a payment instruction that Co-op ought to have realised warranted additional 
checks before it simply processed it without question. I think in a situation like this Co-op 
should have spoken with Mr W to check everything was in order, to protect him from the risk 
of financial harm. I have therefore thought about what most likely would have happened if 
Co-op had spoken appropriately to Mr W about his instruction for the £7,418 payment on 3 
July 2020, before it executed it.
As a financial services professional, I think Co-op would have been aware at the time that 
fraudsters use genuine firms offering cryptocurrency as a way of defrauding customers. 
Cryptocurrency scams had been increasing in frequency and both the FCA and Action Fraud 
had published specific warnings about these scams in 2018. In my view, by 2019, Co-op had 
had time to understand these warnings and put mechanisms in place to detect and prevent 
this particular type of fraud.
Whilst it may have appeared on face value to have been a legitimate payment to a legitimate 
organisation, and even though the money appeared to be going somewhere safe or on (as it 
did) from here to the consumers own wallet, I dont think the conversation should have 
stopped there.
Based on the industry warnings at the time, I think Co-op ought to have had a good enough 
understanding of how these scams work  including that consumers often move money to a 
wallet in their own name before moving it on again to the fraudster or (as I understand was 
the case here) the fraudster having control or access to the wallet. 
Co-op could have asked how the customer had been contacted, whether hed parted with 
personal details in order to open a trading account, whether the investment opportunity was 
linked to a prominent individual, advertised on social media.
 
If Co-op had asked who Mr W was paying his cryptocurrency to when he was making the 
£7,418.26 payment, I think Mr W would have told them about the social media contact from 
a well-known presenter and that he had shared personal details with them including his 
password and Co-op would have been concerned about this. With further questioning, I think 
Co-op would have been on notice that Mr W was falling victim to a scam. And if Co-op had 
given Mr W some warnings about cryptocurrency scams; including pointing out that scam 
firms can manipulate software to distort prices and returns and scam people into buying non-
existent currency  I think this would have caused sufficient doubt in Mr Ws mind not to 
proceed with the payment.  In other words, if the Co-op had carried out further or better 
questioning in line with the banks duty of care, it seems probable that Mr W would have 
become credulous about the scam in time and stopped the payment in its tracks. The fraud 
would have been uncovered and Mr W would not have lost £7,418.26.Ive thought carefully about what Co-ops obligations were, as set out above. But another key 
issue is whether Mr W acted reasonably taking into account all the circumstances of the 
scam. So, I have also considered whether Mr W should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence.
However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising the payments, he was 
still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what he was doing or the 
consequences of his actions. I realise Co-op thinks Mr Ws actions were irresponsible and 
it feels he recklessly divulged his log in details to a fraudster, but Mr W thought he was 
dealing with a genuine expert in cryptocurrency at this point. Mr W told us he searched the 
company online and found nothing of concern. As I understand it, he was also provided 
with a trading platform or portal in which he could view the investments increasing in 
value. Overall, I think this was a very sophisticated and believable scam, and I am 
satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this occasion, Mr W was simply the 
unwitting victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the professional in financial matters; 
Mr W was a layperson.
In the circumstances I am satisfied Co-op should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr W for 
the loss he suffered without any reduction together with interest. Mr W says hes not sure 
what he would have done with the money but may have bought household equipment or 
paid off bills. I think its likely that he would have used his money if he had not been 
defrauded or spent it on other things. So, I consider it fairest to award 8% simple interest.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr W, Co-op should:
Refund the payment of £7,418.26 
Add simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the date the transaction was 
made to the date of settlement
If Co-op deducts tax from this interest, it should provide Mr W with the appropriate tax 
deduction certificate.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman