DRN-2846081
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the support provided to him by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) after he began experiencing financial difficulties. 
What happened
Mr D has a current account and personal loan with RBS. He has explained that in May 2019, 
due to a change in his circumstances, he was no longer able to meet the contractual 
repayments on his accounts. He informed RBS he was experiencing some financial 
difficulties, provided it with details of his income and expenditure and made a repayment 
proposal. He also requested that it stop applying charges and interest until his situation 
improved.
RBS transferred his accounts to its collections department in June 2019, after this 
notification. It says however that it was unable to accept the repayment proposal as it 
thought the supporting information was incomplete.
Mr D wrote to RBS several times in the weeks and months following this, making the same 
repayment proposal and providing an explanation for the information that RBS had said was 
missing. He again requested that charges and interest be stopped. RBS did not accept his 
proposal.
The accounts were eventually defaulted. And they were passed to RBS recoveries 
department in December 2019. RBS says no further interest or charges have been added 
since that time.
Mr D complained to RBS about the lack of compassion while he was in difficulties. He said 
that it was the only one of his creditors that refused to come to an arrangement.
Mr D has said he has been contacted by collections firms acting on behalf of RBS since his 
accounts were referred to its recoveries department, but he has not reached an arrangement 
with them as he wants his complaint to be addressed first. RBS has also indicated agents 
are acting on its behalf in recovering the balance.
In response to Mr Ds complaint RBS said it felt it had offered support to Mr D. It said it had 
responded to his repayment proposals explaining it required more information and had 
attempted to arrange calls with him after further correspondence, but these attempts had 
been unsuccessful. So, it didnt think it had acted incorrectly and that, as payments were not 
being made, it was right to default the accounts. It said it wasnt obliged to suspend interest 
on the accounts but as a gesture of goodwill would refund all interest applied to both 
accounts from June 2019 onwards - when Mr D had first notified it of his financial difficulties. 
It also said that no charges or fees had been applied to the accounts since June 2019. RBS 
also offered Mr D £25 for issues hed had with calls being disconnected.
Mr D asked our service to consider the complaint. He said while he was pleased that interest 
had been refunded, he felt this shouldve been suspended to begin with anyway. He said he 
didnt agree hed been treated fairly and that this whole situation had caused him significant 
distress.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He agreed that there seemed to have 
been a breakdown in communication between RBS and Mr D and he felt that matters 
couldve been handled better. But overall, he felt what RBS had already done  refunding 
interest applied to the accounts from June 2019 and paying £25 was fair.
Mr D did not agree. He said he felt RBS had done the bare minimum in refunding interest 
and its offer did not address the distress caused to him. 
As Mr D did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a customer informs a business that they are having difficulty making repayments, Id 
expect that business to act positively and sympathetically and look at what it can do to assist 
its customer. There isnt though a set definition of what this will look like or a requirement 
that a business must take specific actions. 
One thing a business might consider is suspending interest or charges on an account, while 
someone is in financial difficulties. But a business is not obliged to do this. Here RBS 
continued to apply interest to Mr Ds accounts from June to December 2019. I can see that 
Mr D requested that it not do so but given this was added in line with the terms and 
conditions of each agreement, I dont think RBS was necessarily wrong to continue to 
charge this.
Likewise a business is not obliged to simply accept an offer of repayment. I think it is 
reasonable that it takes steps to verify that this is affordable, sustainable, and that it is fair.
It appears that the issues here stemmed from RBS trying to get more details about the 
repayment proposal. While I dont think it was necessarily wrong to do this, based on what 
Ive seen I think the communication here could have been better. 
Ive seen copies of the letters that Mr D sent to RBS with his repayment proposal, where he 
offered to pay £178 per month. The first letter in which this proposal was made only 
references the account number for the loan. As a result, RBS wrote back to Mr D asking 
what he intended to do about the current account, and for details of his outstanding balances 
with other creditors so that it could establish if the offer made to it was in line with what was 
being repaid elsewhere. I dont think RBS was unreasonable to request this at that point.
Mr D replied with a summary of his creditors. And I can see he referred to the repayment 
proposed to RBS as being in respect of the loan / overdraft  suggesting it was to cover 
both. Although the covering letter again didnt include details of the current account such as 
the account number. Ive seen evidence that RBS attempted to call Mr D following this letter 
to discuss matters further but was unsuccessful. So, it wrote to him again, asking about the 
current account. I think more couldve been done at that point. Although an attempt to call 
was made, I think it probably wouldve been reasonable for RBS to try and call more than 
once to discuss this. And I think the subsequent letter sent could also have been better. 
Specifically, it could have asked a more direct question  by referring to what Mr D had 
summarised and questioning this, rather than another generic statement about details of the 
current account not having been included.Mr D replied via letter several weeks later confirming that hed included the overdraft and 
loan together when making his repayment proposal. I can see that RBS tried to contact Mr D 
several times after this via phone but was unable to make contact or the calls were 
disconnected while speaking to him. Its notes suggest that the repayment proposal had been 
rejected and this is what it was attempting to call Mr D to discuss. While RBS is entitled to 
decide whether it accepts a repayment proposal or not, again I think the communication here 
couldve been better. When the first couple of attempts to call were unsuccessful, RBS 
couldve sent a letter explaining why the repayment proposal wasnt acceptable. But I cant 
see any evidence that it did, even though Mr D kept asking why in further letters.
As a repayment plan could not be agreed, and repayments had not been made for some 
time, the accounts were defaulted and moved to RBS recoveries department. I dont think 
these actions were unreasonable given the position of the accounts. And they did result in 
no further charges or interest being applied. But while I dont think the steps taken by RBS 
with the accounts were unfair, as Ive explained, I think the communication around this 
couldve been better.
Given that I think RBS couldve done better here Ive thought about what a fair way to 
address this is. 
RBS has refunded interest applied to the two accounts from June 2019, when Mr D first 
informed it he was experiencing financial difficulty, totalling £706.79. And again, RBS was 
not obliged to suspend interest, and this was applied in line with the terms of the accounts. It 
has also paid £25 for the issues with calls being disconnected.
Mr D has said, he doesnt think this goes fair enough. He says that RBS was the only 
creditor not to agree to his repayment proposal and that this matter caused him significant 
distress. And I dont doubt that this was upsetting, particularly given what hes explained 
about his circumstances at the time. 
Taking everything into account though, while I know Mr D is likely to be disappointed, I think 
that what RBS has already done  refunding over £700 of interest, that was charged in line 
with the account terms, and making a payment for the upset caused by the issues with calls 
not connecting  is a fair way to address the poor communication. So, I dont intend to 
require it to do anything more. 
Moving forward, as there is an outstanding balance due to RBS, I dont think it is 
unreasonable that it, or its appointed agents, continue to contact Mr D to discuss repayment. 
Again, though Id expect it to act positively and sympathetically and have regard for his 
specific circumstances when discussing a plan for repayment.
Mr D has added that he is unhappy with how his complaint was dealt with after RBS issued 
its final response  particularly that he was unable to speak to it further despite being invited 
to in the final response. RBS has said that it has no records of the calls. Although this is not 
entirely unexpected given that Mr D has said the calls did not connect fully or successfully. I 
have no reason to doubt what Mr D has said about him trying to get in touch with RBS. And I 
dont doubt that this caused additional frustration. But given that the final response correctly 
provided referral rights to our service and he was able to take matters further that way, I 
dont think he has lost out, so I dont think RBS needs to pay any further compensation in 
respect of this.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman