DRN-4196055
The complaint
Ms S complains about cancellation of her motor insurance policy by her insurer, Spitfire 
Insurance Company Limited (Spitfire). 
References to Spitfire in this decision include their agents.
What happened
Mr G took out a motor insurance policy with Spitfire through a comparison website in June 
2022. A couple of months later she received a text message asking her to phone them. But 
Ms S thought the message could be fraudulent, thinking if Spitfire wanted her to contact 
them they would phone, email or text her saying what it was they wanted to discuss. 
A few weeks later, Ms S received another text message from Spitfire saying she had an 
important letter from them with a link. When she opened the link she found a letter saying 
her policy had been cancelled and she owed them money. Ms S rang Spitfire to say she 
hadnt cancelled the policy and she still needed insurance. 
Spitfire said theyd sent her several emails requesting further information about her no 
claims discount (NCD) and previous claims history. Ms S said she hadnt received any 
emails. Spitfire said theyd also sent her text messages asking her to check her emails  but 
Ms S said she hadnt received any text messages asking her to do this. Ms S checked her 
text messages and didnt have the messages (though she found other messages theyd 
sent). Ms S told Spitfire her email address, but they said it didnt match the one in their 
records. She asked why Spitfire didnt text, write, or phone her telling her they were going to 
cancel the policy. Spitfire said that wasnt their practice.
Spitfire said they didnt think Ms S had the level of NCD shed put down and shed not 
declared two previous claims (she said the accidents were when her son was driving under 
her policy  not her accidents). But Spitfire refused to reinstate her cancelled policy and 
advised she would be charged £133.01 (including a cancellation fee of £75).
Unhappy at what had happened, Ms S complained to Spitfire, but they didnt uphold the 
complaint. In their final response they said theyd tried to contact Ms S about her NCD and 
claims history in August 2022, including text messages asking her to check her emails. 
Theyd made the request about NCD and claims history as theyd found the two claims (Ms 
S hadnt declared them when taking out the policy). Due to this (and the consequent need to 
revise her NCD) Spitfire said theyd emailed Ms S (September 2022) advising an additional 
premium was due under the policy. And that if the additional premium wasnt paid, the policy 
would be cancelled. As Ms S hadnt contacted them, theyd cancelled the policy.
Spitfire acknowledged there was an error in the email address they had for Ms S in their 
records but said it was the address entered on the comparison website she used to take out 
the policy (the details would have been carried over to Spitfires systems when setting up the 
policy). So, they hadnt made an error with the email address. As an online insurer they 
communicated with policyholders via text message and email (to request documentation to 
validate information provided when a consumer took out a policy). And it was the consumers 
responsibility to ensure their contact details (including email address) were correct.
Spitfire said they couldnt reinstate Ms Ss policy, but as a goodwill gesture (as the original 
email address was incorrect) they said they would waive the £75 cancellation fee. That left a 
balance of £58.01 (the additional premium for the time on cover).
Ms S then complained to this service. She was unhappy at what had happened and having 
her policy cancelled. Shed had to make an extra payment of £58.01 and because shed had 
to declare shed had insurance cancelled, shed had to pay £1,300 more to take out a new 
policy. She wanted record of the cancellation to be removed and the £58.01 refunded.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding there wasnt any action for Spitfire to 
take. Ms S input an incorrect email address on the comparison website, which meant Spitfire 
sent emails to the incorrect address. While recognising Ms S had difficulty recognising text, it 
was her responsibility to ensure information shed provided was correct. If she had any 
concerns about the accuracy of information supplied, she could have phoned Spitfire to 
check. The investigator noted Spitfire had sent several notifications to Ms S through different 
media, which is what shed expect in the circumstances. And Spitfire had acted reasonably 
in waiving the £75 cancellation fee.
Ms S disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. She said Spitfire could (when the emails they sent bounced back) have sent a 
text message, letter or phoned her to tell her they needed additional information (or they 
would cancel the policy).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Spitfire have acted fairly towards Ms S.
The key issue in Ms Ss complaint is whether Spitfire acted fairly in cancelling he policy. Ms 
S says they should have contacted her through other means to tell her they required 
additional information (or the policy would be cancelled). Spitfire say they arent responsible 
for Ms S providing an incorrect email address and they also tried to contact her through 
other media (text messages). So, they acted fairly in cancelling the policy.
In considering the issue, Ive looked at the sequence of events from the point Spitfire tried to 
contact Ms S to ask about her NCD and claims history. While it isnt part of this complaint, 
from what Ms S and Spitfire have said, it seems reasonable for Spitfire to have wanted to 
validate the information on her NCD and claims history, given the two claims Ms F 
acknowledges were made previously under her policy (when her son was driving). Ive also 
noted the Statement of Fact based on information provided by Ms S when she took out the 
policy doesnt record the two claims (accidents).
I can see from Spitfires case notes they sent Ms F an email and a text message on two 
occasions at the start of August 2022 saying theyd asked for some information. Given the 
nature of the request, I dont think it unreasonable they didnt detail the precise nature of the 
information. While Ms S wouldnt have received the emails (due to the incorrect email 
address) she did receive the text (from what she said when making her complaint to this 
service). And the text provides an email address for Spitfire (including their name) and a 
phone number to call, should she not have received the email. While I understand Ms S may 
have thought the text message potentially fraudulent, she could have checked both contact 
details to confirm they were genuine. And she later phoned Spitfire when she received the 
cancellation letter. Spitfire using two alternative means of contact to request the information needed to validate 
her policy is, Ive concluded, reasonable in the circumstances. And the use of a text 
message to mitigate the risk of Ms S not receiving the emails (which is what happened) is 
also fair and reasonable.
Having not received a response from Ms S, I can see Spitfire cancelled the policy (as they 
indicated they would) at the start of September. At that point, Ms S contacted Spitfire as set 
out above. 
Ive also considered the policy wording in respect of providing information. There are specific 
terms and conditions relating to supporting documents (including proof of NCD) that also 
make it clear that if they arent provided, the policy may be cancelled. And theres a separate 
requirement in respect of electronic documents, stating that because the policy documents 
and certificate of insurance are available online, a policyholder must provide a valid email 
address. Given the nature of Spitfire operating predominantly online, I think these are 
reasonable. 
Whilst the onus is on a consumer (Ms S) to provide accurate information (both in relation to 
information relevant to the policy, such as claims and NCD, and valid contact [email] details) 
Ive also considered her point about having difficulty recognising text. I dont doubt what she 
has told us and that it can present a challenge for her. But I dont think it absolves her of the 
responsibility. And given what Ive concluded about it being reasonable for Spitfire to have 
used a second media (text message) to mitigate the risk of an incorrect email address (or 
email(s) not being received) then I dont think this changes my conclusion Spitfire have acted 
reasonably in the specific circumstances of this case. 
Given the circumstances, I think its also reasonable for Spitfire to have waived the 
cancellation fee that would ordinarily have been due on cancellation of the policy. The 
residual balance (£58.01) is in respect of the additional premium due in respect of the policy 
(taking account of the information on Ms Ss claims history) up to the point it was cancelled. 
While I havent seen detailed calculations supporting this figure, the presence of two 
previous claims would have increased the level of risk assessed by Spitfire and would have 
been likely to lead to an increased premium.
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded Spitfire acted reasonably in cancelling 
the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Ms Ss complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman