DRN-3345712
The complaint
Mr H complained that Assurant General Insurance Limited, trading as Assurant, provided 
him with a replacement mobile phone of a different colour following a claim. 
What happened
Mr H had a current account with a high street bank that included mobile phone insurance 
underwritten by Assurant.   
In mid-January 2022 Mr H submitted an accidental damage claim in relation to a mobile 
phone owned by his teenage son. When Assurant checked the phone, it deemed it to be 
beyond economical repair. So, it arranged to send a replacement that was a different model 
and colour to the original phone. Mr H paid the policy excess of £75.  
Mr H contacted Assurant upon receiving the phone and said while he was happy with the 
model upgrade, he was unhappy with the colour of the new phone, as it was rose gold while 
the phone it was replacing was black. Mr H told Assurant his teenage son wouldnt use a 
phone of that colour as his son thought the colour was too feminine. Assurant declined to 
change the phone and so Mr H complained.  
Assurant responded to the complaint in January 2022. It said the requested colour was out 
of stock when the claim was accepted, so it sent the next available colour. Assurant said this 
was in line with the policy term that said we will attempt to replace your phone with one of 
the same colour but we cant guarantee to do this or replace any limited or special edition 
mobile phones. 
Mr H then brought his complaint to this service. He said the colour of the phone was 
important to his son and should be considered when providing a like-for-like replacement. 
He thought Assurant should have contacted him to say it couldnt provide a black phone, and 
he would have waited for a more suitable colour to become available or asked for a 
settlement figure. He said his son refused to use the rose gold phone and so Mr H had to 
buy a more suitable replacement at a cost of £178.96 and sold the rose gold phone for £130. 
So, Mr H said he was £48.96 out of pocket. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Mr H didnt agree with what our investigator 
said and so this came to me for a decision. 
After reviewing the complaint, I contacted both parties and said that I intended to uphold the 
complaint. I said that I could see Assurant acted in line with its terms and conditions. 
However, given the particular circumstances of this complaint  in that Mr H told Assurant 
his teenage son would not use the phone provided  I think Assurant acted unfairly when it 
refused to exchange the phone. I said I intended to ask Assurant to refund the difference 
between the cost of the new phone bought by Mr H and the sale price of the replacement 
phone sent by Assurant. I also said Assurant should pay Mr H £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. 
Mr H responded and agreed with the suggested outcome. 
Assurant also responded and didnt agree. In summary it said: 
The phone had been fairly provided, in line with its terms and conditions, so there 
was no reason to exchange the phone. 
There was no need for it to phone Mr H in advance to inform him of the change in 
colour, given the amount of information he was provided with at different stages. 
If it was required to call consumers about providing an alternative coloured phone 
then it would not be acting in line with ICOBS, as it would not be handling claims 
promptly and it would be causing inconvenience to consumers. 
Assurant said the phone in question comes in four different colours and it does not 
discriminate in relation to the colour of the phone based on gender. 
Ive considered all additional comments made by both parties and am now in a position to 
issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint.
I want to first of all say that this service has a fair and reasonable remit. So while we take 
terms and conditions into consideration, we also look at whether businesses acted in a fair 
and reasonable way, given the particular circumstances of the complaint in question. 
In this case, the damaged phone belonged to Mr Hs teenage son and the key issue here for 
Mr H is that the original phone was black in colour and the replacement phone sent by 
Assurant was rose gold. 
When Mr H received the replacement rose gold phone, he immediately contacted Assurant 
to say the phone was of no use to him, as his son wouldnt use one of that colour  his son 
felt it was too feminine a colour for him. So Mr H requested a different colour. I think this was 
a perfectly reasonable request to make in the circumstances. The replacement phone has to 
be one Mr Hs son can use. If his teenage son has made it clear that he wont use a phone 
of that colour, but would use a phone of another colour (and the phone comes in colours 
other than black and rose gold) then Assurant could have allowed him to return the phone 
and be provided with a replacement that was more suited to his particular needs. At that 
stage Mr H had not used the replacement phone and a swap could have been arranged.  
So while I can see that Assurant acted in line with its terms and conditions in providing Mr H 
with a different colour phone, Im satisfied it acted unfairly when it did not allow Mr H to 
return the rose gold phone and get a replacement phone of a different colour, when it 
became clear the phone would not be used by Mr Hs son. Assurant has discretion to decide 
whether exchanges can be made and given the particular circumstances of this complaint, I 
think it should have done just that here. 
The question now is how to put things right. Ive looked at the position Mr H would have 
been in if Assurant had allowed him to return the rose gold phone and it had provided a 
more suitable replacement. This is that Mr H would not have had to pay for another phone. 
I understand from Mr H that he paid £178.96 for the new phone and sold the rose gold 
phone for £130. So hes currently out of pocket by £48.96. Mr H shouldnt be out of pocket 
as a result of making the claim and so Assurant should refund the difference of £48.96.
Mr H originally asked for the excess and the cost of posting the damaged phone to Assurant to be refunded. But these costs do not need to be refunded. Mr H made a claim that was 
accepted by Assurant and these costs are fairly incurred by him as part and parcel of the 
claim. But I do think Mr H should be compensated for the inconvenience of having to deal 
with this matter, buy a more suitable phone and sell the replacement phone. And I think £50 
compensation is fair in these circumstances.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Assurant General Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr H a total of £98.96. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman