DRN-3386226
The complaint
Mrs S complains on behalf of Mr S that Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC trading as Hitachi Personal 
Finance (Hitachi) charged interest on his loan account after it had agreed not to.
What happened
 Mr S applied for a personal loan with Hitachi in May 2019 with a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) 
option, including a payment deferral for 12 months, from the date it was drawn in August 
2019. This meant no interest would be charged if the loan account balance was repaid in full 
during this deferral period.  
Following the Covid pandemic Mr S fell into financial difficulties and approached Hitachi for 
support and it agreed to provide an initial three-month Covid payment holiday, which was 
extended by a further three months ending in January 2021. Mrs S says the family income 
was still being affected at this time, so after discussions with debt advisors, she spoke to 
Hitachi in February 2021, who agreed a token payment arrangement on the loan account for 
a further 12 months, agreeing a token payment plan of £1 per month. 
Mrs S says during the telephone discussions in February 2021 with Hitachis advisor, she 
repeatedly asked if interest was payable while the payment plan was in place and was told 
there would be no penalty interest or charges. Mrs S says the following month Hitachi sent a 
letter which showed the total amount outstanding had increased and on questioning this with 
Hitachi she was told it was because interest had been applied, even though she had 
previously been told it wouldnt.  
Mrs S says Hitachi have accepted that during the initial telephone conversation she held with 
them, the advisor could have been clearer about the interest arrangements and offered £20 
by way of apology. Mrs S doesnt feel this goes far enough and wants Hitachi to remove the 
interest applied to the loan and allow the payment plan to proceed without any further 
application of interest. 
Hitachi have accepted it didnt explain the interest arrangement on the payment plan clearly, 
but no extra interest was being charged, only what was agreed in the original credit 
agreement signed by Mr S. Hitachi says it has apologised for the confusion it caused and 
paid Mr S £20 to recognise this.
Mr S wasnt happy with Hitachis response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Hitachi had acted fairly when agreeing the Covid payment holiday and the 
subsequent token payment plan. The investigator says although he accepts Hitachi could 
have been clearer about the interest arrangements on the loan account, when Mrs S phoned 
in February 2021, it had previously informed Mr S of the interest charges in the signed credit 
agreement. The investigator says he couldnt see that any confusion regarding the interest 
arrangements would have prevented Mr S entering the payment arrangement. The 
investigator felt the £20 payment by way of apology for any misunderstanding was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I was sorry to hear Mr S experienced financial difficulties following the Covid pandemic and 
this must have been a worrying time for him and his family. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Hitachi acted fairly when it informed Mr S 
interest was still chargeable on his personal loan account, while a payment plan was in 
place. 
Mr Ss complaint centres around what Mrs S believes was agreed by Hitachi, following a 
telephone conversation she held with them in February 2021, regarding the interest charges 
on Mr Ss loan account. Mrs S says she asked on three occasions during that phone call in 
February 2021 if interest would be payable and says she was told no interest penalties 
would be payable. Mrs S has made the point Mr S wouldnt have entered into this 
arrangement, if it had been made clear interest was still chargeable on the loan account. 
Its worth saying Hitachi have accepted their advisor could have been clearer about the 
interest arrangements going forward and have apologised for that and paid Mr S £20 in 
recognition. So while I accept Hitachi could have provided better service here, Im left to 
consider if the confusion that caused, would have altered Mr Ss decision to continue with 
the payment plan and as a result of that one phone call, Hitachi must now waive all interest 
on that loan account. 
While I understand the points Mrs S makes here Im not persuaded by her argument- let me 
explain why. The first thing to say here is Hitachi have acted reasonably when it provided the 
two Covid payment holiday plans with Mr S, in line with the guidance given by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) and subsequently agreed a token £1 per month payment plan for a 
further 12 months, when it was told of Mr Ss financial situation. Mrs S says she was told 
there would be no interest charged on the loan and its fair to say the advisor was in all 
probability referring to penalty interest. While accepting that point wasnt explained in the 
way we would expect, I cant see that one mishandled telephone call means Hitachi must 
change the terms and conditions of its credit agreement, Mr S originally signed. 
I say this because its clear in the credit agreement provided to this service, the interest 
deferral was to expire in August 2020 and if the capital sum was not paid off in full by that 
time, the contractual monthly payments (CMP) would begin. Its worth saying the credit 
agreement Mr S signed was one where interest is front loaded and the monthly payments 
over the term of the loan, here for 120 months, would be inclusive of that interest charge. 
Additionally, when the Covid payment holiday was first agreed in June 2020, this wasnt to 
extend the deferral period, whereby the capital could still be repaid without further interest, 
simply that the CMP had been put on hold - here for a total of six months. I am satisfied this 
was explained in letters to Mr S dated 7 June 2020 and 29 October 2020. What I mean by 
this is interest was always going to be payable, if Mr S didnt pay off the full amount 
outstanding within the agreed original deferral period. So with that in mind, even though Mrs S may not agree, when the token payment 
arrangement was put in place in February 2021, Mr S would have been aware the interest 
was still payable and I cant say it would be fair for me to ask Hitachi to now waive any 
interest on the loan as a result of a poorly phrased telephone call. What Hitachi had agreed 
to here and perhaps where the confusion lies, is that it would accept £1 per month in place 
of the CMP detailed in the credit agreement for a limited period without further interest 
penalties. 
Mrs S says if she had known the interest was payable, alternative arrangements would have 
possibly been put in place. While I understand this point, theres no way of me knowing that 
with any certainty, but even so, interest was always due on the loan account even before the 
telephone call in February 2021 and its fair to say Mr S would have been aware of that for 
the reasons I have already explained. So even if Mr S had wanted to have paid off the 
balance in February 2021, as Mrs S suggests was an option, there would have been interest 
payable on the loan at that time in any event.
Confirmation of the interest arrangements were also sent to Mr S in a letter dated 30 March 
2021. So here, Im satisfied that had been explained to Mr S in the letters I have already 
referred to, as well as the original credit agreement signed by him.
While Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Hitachi here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman