DRN-3058061
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the way Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) handled his claim 
for a faulty phone.
What happened
Mr F contacted AGI at the end of December 2020 as his phone was damaged and he 
wanted to make a claim. AGI accepted the claim and sent a replacement phone. The 
replacement phone developed a fault so a further replacement was sent at the end of 
February 2021. Mr F was unhappy with the quality of the phone sent to him so AGI agreed to 
exchange it for another phone. 
On 1 March 2021 a doorstep exchange was arrange and Mr F was provided with his 
replacement phone. On 11 March 2021 Mr F got in touch with AGI as he was unhappy with 
the quality of the phone. Mr F said the phone had marks and scratches on the back and 
damage to one of the buttons. 
AGI inspected the phone but found it passed their quality checks so they returned the phone 
to Mr F. They acknowledged that one of the previous phones they had sent to Mr F hadnt 
passed their quality checks so they apologised and paid Mr F £25.
Mr F remained unhappy with the quality of the most recent replacement phone he had been 
sent so he brought his concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, 
she felt AGI had been fair in their assessment so didnt ask them to do anything more. Mr F 
remained unhappy so asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the policy provide cover for damage and breakdown. It says:
If your device is damaged or breaks down we will either:
repair the device, or
replace it with a device of the same make and model. If we cannot do this you will 
be given a choice of models with an equivalent specification.
It then goes on to talk about what replacement means, it says:
Replacements
Where we replace the device the replacement may be a remanufactured (not brand 
new) device.
AGI have fulfilled the terms of contract as they have provided a replacement remanufactured 
phone.
Mr F accepts the replacement would be a remanufactured phone but has said refurbished 
phones are typically given a grade by retailers. He provided some detail of the typical 
grading retailers and trading standards refer to as he feels the phone he received as a 
replacement isnt of satisfactory quality. 
Ive considered if AGI have been fair and reasonable when replacing the phone. They were 
within their rights to inspect the returned phone to check it was operational and met the 
standards they set when providing remanufactured phones.
Ive seen the photographs of the phone and the quality check the phone went through after 
Mr F reported his concern. The report shows the phone is fully functional and was given a 
cosmetic grade of 1, which AGI say is equivalent to grade A  low signs of wear and tear, 
clear screen and containing no marks that affect the functionality or use of the device.  So, 
under the circumstances Im satisfied the phone was of satisfactory quality.
I appreciate Mr F doesnt agree the phone he received is grade A quality given the definition 
of this provided by other retailers. However, AGI didnt specify within the policy what grade 
phone would be sent. And from what I understand quality can vary with the grading system 
so therefore it can differ. 
The quality checks carried out by AGI say the phone is cosmetic grade 1 and given the 
definition provided, this doesnt seem unreasonable. Having seen details of the process AGI 
follow when providing replacement phones, Im satisfied theyve treated Mr F the same as 
they would any other customer.
AGI had accepted one of the replacements they sent previously wasnt of satisfactory quality 
so they apologised and arranged to pay Mr F £25 for the inconvenience caused. Considering 
this with the steps taken to arrange a replacement, I think this is a fair resolution to the issue. 
Im sorry to hear the impact it has had on Mr F. But overall, Im satisfied AGI have complied 
with the terms of the policy and treated Mr F fairly when replacing his phone and paying 
compensation for the inconvenience it caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Assurant General Insurance Limited should pay Mr F £25 if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman