DRN-2786635
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain because Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt paid a claim under their 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L hold a travel insurance policy, provided by Aviva, as a benefit of their bank
account.
Mr and Mrs L travelled abroad on a package holiday on 16 March 2020. The country they
were visiting went into lockdown as soon as they landed. Mr and Mrs L say they were
confined to their rooms, with meals being brought to them and they had no access to the
hotel facilities.
Mr and Mrs L say they unsuccessfully attempted to contact both their travel provider and
Aviva. They say they then spoke to the British Embassy, who advised them to get the first
available flight back to the UK. A friend of Mr and Mrs Ls booked new flights for them
through their original travel provider, at a cost of £1,050, and they returned home early.
At first, Mr and Mrs Ls travel provider said it would refund them part of the total cost of their
original package holiday. So, Mr and Mrs L made a claim with Aviva for the remainder of the
price of their original holiday as well as for their additional travel costs. However, Mr and Mrs
Ls travel provider subsequently refunded them the full cost of their original package holiday.
So, only Mr and Mrs Ls claim for their additional travel costs remains in dispute.
Aviva said Mr and Mrs Ls claim wasnt covered because their policy excludes cover for
costs that are recoverable from their travel provider. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs L brought their
complaint to our service.
Our investigator requested additional evidence from Mr and Mrs L and issued several
opinions about their complaint. Most recently, our investigator recommended that Aviva
should pay Mr and Mrs Ls claim for their additional flights, less the cost of the original flight
which was refunded by their travel provider. Aviva didnt agree, so the complaint was passed 
to me. 
I made my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Ls complaint in March 2021. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say an insurer must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, as well
as other industry guidance, into account when making my decision about what I think is fair
and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ls policy with Aviva outline the cover provided.
These say:
Cancelling or coming home early
If you unavoidably have to cancel your trip or come home early, we will pay for the
following:
non recoverable costs that each insured person has paid, or legally has to
pay for their own unused personal travel and/or accommodation. This also
includes the cost of pre-paid excursions and green fees: and/or
additional travel costs (if you cannot use your return ticket)necessary to
allow you to come home early
If you are unable to recover these costs from the provider.
If one of the following occurs
8. you are prevented from travelling within 31 days of your scheduled departure date
or have to come home early because:
(b) a Foreign and Commonwealth Office advisory notice is in place advising against
all travel or all but essential travel to your destination or, the FCO are advising British
citizens to leave the area in which you are staying.
Ive firstly considered whether I think the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls claim are covered
until this section of their policy. I think they are.
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) issued an advisory notice on 17 March
2020, the day after Mr and Mrs L arrived at their destination, advising against all non-
essential travel overseas.
Aviva says the reason Mr and Mrs Ls holiday was cut short wasnt because of FCO advice,
but because the hotel they were staying at was shutting down. The FCO didnt advise all
British travellers who were abroad to return to the UK until 23 March 2020, the day after Mr
and Mrs L flew home on the earlier flight theyd arranged.
While the FCO hadnt explicitly advised travellers to leave their destinations abroad at the
time Mr and Mrs L cut short their trip, the FCO had advised against all but non-essential
travel abroad. Mr and Mrs Ls policy says cover is provided for additional travel costs if a
policyholder cannot use their return ticket in the event of the FCO advising against all but
essential travel. In any event, Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable in the
circumstances for Aviva to treat Mr and Mrs Ls curtailment claim as arising from a situation
which is insured under their policy. I say this having considered the circumstances which Mr
and Mrs L found themselves in and the timing of the events in this case. Mr and Mrs L were
told their hotel was closing at the end of the week of their arrival and no alternative
accommodation was offered to them. Even if Mr and Mrs L could have found 
accommodation elsewhere, the FCO advised British travellers to return home the day after
they left their destination. At this point, Mr and Mrs L still had just under a week of their
original holiday left. So, even if Mr and Mrs L had stayed abroad, the rapidly changing
circumstances surrounding Covid-19 meant theyd have had a valid reason to make a claim
under the section of the policy which Ive quoted above before their original intended return
date.
Ive then moved on to consider whether I think Mr and Mrs Ls claim meets the other criteria
set out under their policy. In common with most, if not all, travel insurance policies on the
market, the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ls policy say a claim wont be paid if the
costs the policyholder is claiming for are recoverable from their travel provider.Aviva says the responsibility for refunding Mr and Mrs Ls additional flight costs lies with their
travel provider under the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018
(the PTR). The PTR says in circumstances such as this, in addition to its other obligations,
a travel provider should repatriate the traveller at no extra cost. This means, before I could
reasonably ask Aviva to pay Mr and Mrs Ls claim, Id expect Mr and Mrs L to pursue the
matter with their travel provider  and with any other relevant industry complaint schemes 
first.
Mr and Mrs Ls travel provider says it is unable to refund the additional flight costs paid by Mr
and Mrs L as the airline are unwilling to return the money. But, the travel providers
obligations to Mr and Mrs L under the PTR apply regardless of whether the travel provider
has itself been able to recover the money involved from any third party. However, when Mr
and Mrs L contacted the relevant trade association (The Association of British Travel
Agents), it said Mr and Mrs Ls travel provider has already gone beyond what it is liable for
under the PTR. This is because Mr and Mrs L have been given a full refund for their original
holiday, but a full refund wouldnt have been due as Mr and Mrs L used their outbound flights
and their accommodation until their early return.
Im satisfied based on the information Ive seen that Mr and Mrs L have made reasonable
attempts to recover their additional flight costs from their travel provider. ABTA has said it
doesnt recommend proceeding with a complaint about their travel provider and has
explained why. Therefore, Mr and Mrs Ls only remaining option in attempting to reclaim their
additional flight costs from their travel provider at this point would seem to be pursuing the
matter through the courts.
I dont think its fair or reasonable for Aviva to expect Mr and Mrs L to take such action. In
light of what ABTA has said in this case, I think the success of any legal action seems far
from certain. In addition, the Financial Conduct Authority, in its guidance on cancellations
and refunds, has explicitly stated it would generally view it as unreasonable to expect a
consumer to go to court to recover their losses. Mr and Mrs L hold an insurance policy which
would otherwise cover their claim. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable in the
circumstances for Aviva to decline Mr and Mrs Ls claim on the basis that the losses theyre
claiming for are recoverable from their travel provider.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ls policy allow Aviva to take proceedings in the
policyholders name to recover any payments made under the policy. So, its open to Aviva
to seek to recover the cost of Mr and Mrs Ls additional flights from the travel provider itself if
it wishes. I note Aviva has already told this service it reserves the right to do so.
Aviva has also said the fact that Mr and Mrs Ls travel provider has refunded them more than
they are entitled to means their additional flight costs have been indirectly refunded to them.
So, Ive thought about whether asking Aviva to accept Mr and Mrs Ls claim means they
would, in effect, be in a better position financially if their claim is paid  which isnt
something insurance is designed to achieve.
Mr and Mrs L are claiming for additional money they spent on new flights back to the UK.
Their policy provides cover for additional travel costs and Mr and Mrs L have provided
evidence that their financial loss in this regard is £1,050. I understand Mr and Mrs L have
already been refunded in full for their original holiday but, in the circumstances, I dont think I
can reasonably conclude this means Mr and Mrs L have had a free holiday and therefore
have profited from the situation they found themselves in.
Although Mr and Mrs L did use their outbound flights and their accommodation prior to their
return, I dont think its fair to say they had the benefit of a holiday within the ordinary,
everyday meaning of the word. Although they flew to their destination they were, in effect,confined to their room from the point of their arrival apart from exercising. In circumstances
such as this, I may have reached a conclusion that Mr and Mrs Ls holiday was effectively
curtailed under their policy and asked Aviva to refund a proportion of their accommodation
costs had these not already been refunded to them. The fact that the travel provider has
chosen to refund the full cost of the original holiday to Mr and Mrs L doesnt change my
provisional findings on what I think Aviva needs to do to put things right.
Our investigator said she thought the value of Mr and Mrs Ls original flights should be
deducted from the costs theyre claiming for. However, Mr and Mrs L have lost out financially
by £1,050. I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Aviva to pay the
full value of Mr and Mrs Ls claim.
Aviva said it had nothing further to add and accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs L 
replied to my provisional decision with comments about the price of the return flights they 
were originally quoted for. Theyve also mentioned the difficulties they had trying to contact 
Aviva while they were abroad, as well as the disappointment and stress they experienced. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no doubt that the situation Mr and Mrs L found themselves in will have been very 
disappointing and inconvenient, and I understand they faced difficulties in arranging flights 
back to the UK. The unprecedented and exceptional circumstances surrounding Covid-19 
are likely to have led to increased flight costs and placed a high demand on travel insurers 
resources to accept calls and provide advice to policyholders. So, unfortunately, Aviva was 
limited in its ability to assist Mr and Mrs L, and it was their travel providers responsibility to 
arrange for their return to the UK. 
Im satisfied that directing Aviva to pay for Mr and Mrs Ls additional flight costs is a fair and 
reasonable resolution to their complaint in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Aviva needs to put things right by paying Mr and Mrs Ls claim for their additional travel costs 
under the cancelling or coming home early section of their cover, subject to any applicable 
policy excesses and/or policy limits.   
Aviva should add interest at 8% simple per annum to the claim payment from the date Mr 
and Mrs L paid for the flights until the date the settlement is paid. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited and I direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman