DRN-3576176
The complaint
Ms G, as the owner of a reviewable whole of life policy with Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited [Aviva], complains that Aviva reduced the level of life cover on the policy at a review 
without her instruction. Ms G complains Aviva didnt support her when the policy lapsed, and 
she had to re-instate the policy by paying off the arrears.
What happened
Ms G is the owner of a joint life whole of life policy that was taken out in 1988 and Aviva took 
on responsibility for the policy some years later. In June 2018, Aviva wrote to Ms G to tell her 
the existing cover could no longer be guaranteed and that she would need to either increase 
the premium, or the cover would be reduced. Shortly after the review letter, Ms G spoke with 
Aviva and said she couldnt afford the increase in premium and Aviva reduced the level of 
cover the existing premium would provide. The following year the policy fell into arrears and 
at one point it lapsed. Ms G had been paying premiums through a direct debit and these 
were duplicated by a standing order payment. Although Aviva refunded the premiums Ms G 
had overpaid in this regard, further premiums werent collected between October 2019 and 
July 2020, and later from August 2020 to late 2021. Ms G complained to Aviva that she 
didnt know the policy benefits and premiums were reviewable and that the premium 
increase unaffordable. And that Aviva had cancelled the direct debit and not taken the 
premiums due between October 2019 and July 2020.
Aviva told Ms G that as it didnt sell the policy it was the responsibility of the financial adviser 
who sold it to ensure she understood how the policy worked. Aviva said that there had been 
a number of reviews where the premiums and benefits were maintained, but the review in 
2018 was the first review where the level of cover couldnt be guaranteed for the next five 
years. As Ms G didnt increase the premium, Aviva said it reduced the level of life cover to a 
level it could guarantee for the next five years and that this was the default option detailed in 
the review pack.
Aviva says it sent a letter to Ms G about the missed October 2019 payment, but that no other 
arrears letters were sent, and the policy lapsed. Aviva re-instated the policy after Ms G paid 
the arrears and paid one months premium in recognition that it hadnt been sending arrears 
letters because Ms G hadnt provided written notification of her new address. 
Ms G wasnt happy with the final response from Aviva and brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, where one of our Investigators looked into things. The 
Investigator thought that Aviva hadnt done anything wrong when it reverted to the default 
option to reduce the level of life cover at the 2018 review, and that it provided a reasonable 
level of support when the premiums werent collected. Ms G didnt accept the thoughts of the 
Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms G will be disappointed, but Ive decided Aviva acted reasonably when it 
reduced the level of life cover to the default option in 2018. And that the actions taken by 
Aviva to re-instate the policy after the premiums hadnt been collected were fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case. I will now explain why.
Policy review 2018
Ms G believes the policy was mis-sold, but Aviva didnt sell the policy, it was the provider of 
the policy. The financial adviser at the time worked for a business thats no longer regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority, but its this business that was responsible for the sale. 
So, I can only make a decision about the actions of Aviva in its administration of the policy. 
The policy review letter Aviva sent Ms G in June 2018 explained the policy premium could 
no longer guarantee the level of life cover for the next five years and gave Ms G two options. 
One was to increase the premium and maintain the cover for at least another five years, and 
the other (the default option) was to maintain the premium and reduce the life cover 
provided. I appreciate Ms G may not have received the review letter, but Aviva did confirm in 
a follow-up letter dated 6 August 2018 that the cover had been reduced. Ive listened to the 
telephone call Ms G made to Aviva shortly after the June 2018 review when she contacted 
them about the reduced level of cover. Im not persuaded Ms G provided any instruction to 
Aviva at the time, so because of this, I dont consider Aviva did anything wrong by reverting 
to the default option outlined in the review letter. I appreciate Ms G was shocked Aviva had 
amended the level of life cover, but Aviva later extended the deadline for Ms G to respond 
and allowed time for the outstanding premiums to be received. Ive noted that Ms G paid 
Aviva the outstanding premiums in line with the default option.
Direct debit payments
Ms G changed address in early November 2019. Unfortunately, it seems likely that Aviva 
didnt know this until May 2020 when Ms G told Aviva that shed had her post re-directed. 
Aviva asked Ms G to confirm the change of address in writing.
In late 2018 and early 2019 a number of premiums were duplicated because there was a 
direct debit and a standing order in place to pay the premiums. Aviva refunded the overpaid 
premiums.
When the October 2019 payment wasnt successful, Aviva wrote to Ms G at the address it 
held to let her know. Aviva accepts it should have done more to tell Ms G the premium 
hadnt been collected but did write to Ms G at her old address on 30 April 2020. It told her 
that no premiums had been collected since 1 October 2019, and that as a consequence the 
policy would lapse if the arrears werent paid by 1 June. Ms G received this letter and called 
Aviva to see if it could help her with resolving the issue of the missed payments. Aviva 
agreed a payment plan over the next three months and paid one of the premiums due to 
reflect that it could have sent a further letter to Ms G after it received no response to the 
missed payment it sent in November 2019.
Ms G says Aviva stopped taking payments by direct debit, but Ive not seen anything to 
persuade me it did. Its clear to me that there were a number of issues surrounding the 
payments between 2018 and 2021, and Ms G moved address without providing Aviva with a 
written confirmation. There were also a number of manual payments made from Ms G to 
Aviva and vice-versa, but I cant reasonably conclude all of these were the fault of Aviva. 
However, Aviva has recognised it should have followed up the letter it sent Ms G about the 
outstanding premium from October 2019, but credited the policy with one monthly premium 
and allowed Ms G to catch-up the outstanding premiums over three months so that the life 
cover could be maintained. Although the premiums were brought up to date by Ms G, it seems likely that the premiums 
werent collected by direct debit, but instead Ms G made other arrangements to pay them. 
This meant by July 2020 the policy was up to date, but because Aviva says Ms Gs bank had 
told it the direct debit was cancelled, a new direct debit would be required. Aviva hadnt yet 
received written confirmation from Ms G of her change of address. As no new direct debit 
was in place from August 2020 and Ms G hadnt written to confirm her change of address, 
arrears letters werent sent, and premiums werent collected. Aviva wrote to Ms G at her new 
address in April 2021 to remind her it still needed written confirmation from her of her change 
of address. By September 2021 no premiums had been paid since August 2020 and, after 
speaking with Ms G on the telephone, Aviva confirmed how Ms G could bring the policy up 
to date over coming months, and requested a new direct debit be completed and returned to 
them for future premiums.
Ive carefully considered what happened between June 2018 and October 2021. It seems to 
me that Aviva should have done more to tell Ms G her the premiums werent being collected, 
but Aviva took reasonable steps to put Ms G back into the position she would have been in if 
it had. Aviva extended the time for Ms G to clear the arrears and reduced the arrears by one-
months premium to reflect that it should have done more.
It seems more likely to me that Aviva didnt cancel the direct debit and that there was no 
valid direct debit mandate in place because of the pending change of address. Ms G says 
that a co-life assured on the policy had previously cancelled the direct debit. But, regardless 
of this, Im satisfied Aviva made reasonable attempts to remind Ms G it needed written 
confirmation of her new address before a new direct debit could be sent to her, and it gave 
Ms G three months to catch-up the arrears on the policy even though it hadnt received the 
new direct debit. So, in this regard, Ive decided Aviva doesnt need to do anything else.
My final decision
Ive decided that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited took reasonable steps to support Ms G in 
re-instating the policy and acted reasonably when it reduced the level of life cover to the 
default option.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman