DRN-4311547
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society (NBS) wont accept a Promissory Note to 
redeem his mortgage. He has asked that his house deeds are returned to him and NBS 
confirm his mortgage is now redeemed.
What happened
NBS issued a mortgage offer to Mr M dated 4 January 2017 in relation to his then proposed 
purchase of a property 34 B St, at a purchase price of £90,000. The loan amount was for 
£76,500 plus fees. It was on a repayment basis over 30 years with a fixed rate for the first 2 
years. Mr M accepted the offer and NBS advanced to him the mortgage monies.
NBS wrote to Mr M on 2 May 2023 advising that charges had been added to his mortgage 
account. They provided a statement of account which showed that he had not paid the 
monthly mortgage payments due in February, March, April, and May of that year. On 13 May 
NBS wrote again giving notice that they were going to start legal action as his account was 
in arrears. Subsequently proceedings were issued and following Mr Ms complaint to this 
service, NBS agreed at the end of July to the proceedings being adjourned for a period of 
three months. At that time there were arrears on Mr Ms mortgage account of over £25,000.
Mr M complains that NBS wont accept a Promissory Note which he believes should be 
sufficient to redeem his mortgage. Mr M has also challenged the validity of the mortgage 
itself saying that he never signed the agreement, nor did it have wet signatures.
NBS dont agree that the Promissory Note is a valid form of payment and have asked Mr M 
to clear his arrears and bring his account up to date in order to avoid repossession. It does 
not accept that it has done anything wrong, acted unfairly, or that the mortgage is invalid. 
Mr M was unhappy with NBSs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that NBS hadnt done anything 
wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive taken account of both sides views and Ive looked at the issues raised and considered 
all the available evidence. 
The first issue is whether the mortgage is actually valid. That is a decision for a Court to 
make, not this service. We cannot decide whether a mortgage is void, invalid or 
unenforceable. That said, so as far as the law is concerned, I am not persuaded there is any 
merit to Mr Ms arguments that he doesnt have a valid mortgage agreement with NBS or 
that it is not entitled to claim the mortgage repayments from him.
What I can say is that there is clear evidence that Mr M entered into an agreement with NBS. 
I say that because NBS advanced him a considerable sum of money, secured against his 
property, and which he used to purchase it. He has historically made the contractual monthly 
payments and I have seen no evidence that he ever complained or raised a dispute about 
the validity of the mortgage prior to making this complaint. It would seem that at least initially, 
Mr M accepted that he was in a contractual relationship with NBS. 
Further, Mr M has undoubtedly benefited from the agreement he made with NBS since he 
has the use of the property he purchased. It is only fair and reasonable therefore for NBS to 
expect that he should repay the money advanced, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage he entered into.
Secondly, a promissory note is an unconditional promise to pay, made in writing, that the 
maker will pay on demand or at some specified time in the future, a specific sum of money. I 
accept the historic use of promissory notes and the role they have played in the financial 
world. 
However, in the context of this complaint, the Promissory Note has no bearing. That is 
because Mr M entered into a contract with NBS and in so doing, in the return for monies 
advanced he agreed to certain terms. One of those terms is that he repays the monies 
advanced by contractual monthly instalments. There was no term within the mortgage 
agreement that he might unilaterally impose a Promissory Note upon NBS in substitution for 
the mortgage it holds. The effect of so doing would be to remove NBS security and place 
them in the position of an unsecured creditor. It would also allow him to unilaterally escape 
from his contractual obligations. 
NBS could of course agree to accept a Promissory Note in lieu of a mortgage, but the point 
is that in this case it hasnt. NBS seeks only to rely upon the original terms of the mortgage 
agreement and is entitled so to do, since the Promissory Note, in this context, is not a 
substitute for money and doesnt act to redeem the mortgage. 
Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
Because Im satisfied Mr M borrowed the money from NBS, its fair and reasonable for him 
to repay it, via his bank account in accordance with the terms and conditions of the mortgage 
he entered into. NBS actions in writing to Mr M about his arrears were also reasonable 
given that he had fallen into arrears and was not proposing to remedy that position. Equally, 
until Mr M redeems the mortgage, NBS are entitled to hold on to the property title deeds. 
So, although Mr M will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say NBS has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. Mr M might find it helpful 
to take legal advice from a qualified lawyer or through Citizens Advice and/or Shelter. My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman