DRN-2850504
The complaint
This is a complaint that Mr B, and the late Mrs B, were mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI). Bank of Scotland are answerable for this complaint  although the PPI was 
actually sold by an organisation that was separate at the time. For simplicitys sake, Ill refer 
to Bank of Scotland as the seller.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1990. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr B, and the representatives of the 
estate of the late Mrs B, disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The sale of the PPI took place over 30 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago. This means it can be difficult to know whether 
its fair to rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. 
Mr B says that pressure was put on him and the late Mrs B to take PPI  and that they were 
told that no PPI would mean no loan.
The problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth having and it 
is clear the customer has a choice. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no 
real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be 
sure exactly what was said. 
Also, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of it. As a general principle of fairness, where someone has said 
another person (or organisation) has done something wrong, there needs to be reasonable 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they 
didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. But I dont have 
that evidence and, as Ive said, I cant know how well Mr B has remembered the details  
and this is backed up by the ombudsman form he filled in, where he said he couldnt 
remember several details from so long ago. 
Overall I dont have strong evidence that the PPI was presented as a genuine choice. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
I think Bank of Scotland probably recommended the PPI to Mr B and the late Mrs B, and this 
means we would judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI 
was suitable for Mr B and the late Mrs Bs particular circumstances. However, it looks to me 
as though a recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of 
their situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely both Mr B and Mrs B were eligible for the policy, so would have been 
entitled to make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr B and the late Mrs B 
received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off 
the time when they would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may 
have had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put 
them in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long term 
sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mr B and the late Mrs B couldnt afford the PPI 
when they took it out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And they could have 
cancelled the policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr B and the 
late Mrs B would have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then have been up to Mr B and the late Mrs B to decide whether they 
wanted to accept the recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (assuming they understood 
they had a genuine choice  which I accept Mr B says wasnt the case).
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have made 
a difference to whether or not Mr B and the late Mrs B took the PPI. I say this because, in 
their circumstances, its unlikely this would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B, Miss B 
and Mr B and the estate of Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman