DRN-1639182
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy because he says that Openwork Limited trading as Owl Financial mis-sold 
him a personal sick pay plan. 
What happened
Mr G took out a personal sick pay plan with an insurer in 2015. He recently tried to claim on 
the policy but it was rejected on the basis that Mr G hadnt fully disclosed his medical history 
at the point of sale. The insurer said that had Mr G declared the relevant medical history 
theyd have applied exclusions to the policy including for wrist, neck and back pain. 
Mr G says that he spoke to an advisor in his first language, which isnt English. The advisor 
then entered information onto the computer to make the application. Mr G says he told the 
advisor about his medical history, including details of an accident hed had. He says he 
trusted and relied on the advisor and when the insurer sent the documents through, he 
wasnt able to read them. 
Openwork said that the sales records indicate Mr G didnt give the advisor the relevant 
information about his medical history and that it was his responsibility to check through the 
documents and ask for help from a family member or friend if he wasnt sure about what the 
post-sale documents said. So, they didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G complained to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt 
uphold the complaint. She thought that the evidence suggested the policy hadnt been mis-
sold and that Mr G had the opportunity to ask for help with the documents if he wanted to 
check the information. 
Mr G didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to look at the complaint  he says he trusted 
the advisor and Openwork shouldnt be allowed to sell policies to people who cant speak 
English. So, I need to make a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Openwork gave Mr G advice about the Personal Sickpay Plan. So, they needed to ensure it 
was right for his demands and needs. And they also had to give him clear, fair and non-
misleading information. 
I dont think Openwork mis-sold this policy to Mr G because: 
During the sale he was asked whether in the last five years hed had any joint, bone 
or muscle pain, fracture, gout or arthritis. He was also asked if hed had any back or 
neck condition, including pain, sciatica or whiplash. Mr G was asked to confirm 
whether hed had any of these problems, regardless of whether hed seen a doctor or 
required treatment. The advisor recorded the answer to those questions as no. 
However, as part of the claims process, the insurer noted that hed had an accident 
in October 2014 which caused wrist and neck pain. Mr G attended the accident and 
emergency department and also accessed treatment from his GP. The advisor 
declined the claim on the basis that Mr G should have declared this information
Mr G says he told the advisor about his medical history and the advisor must have 
entered the information incorrectly. But I havent found Mr Gs testimony on this point 
to be detailed or persuasive. It seems more likely to me that the advisor recorded 
Mr Gs answer to the question as no because that reflects the discussion they had 
about his medical history. Im not suggesting Mr G has been dishonest, but that he 
didnt think to mention he had received treatment for joint and muscle pain following 
his accident
Mr G electronically confirmed that hed answered all the questions accurately and 
truthfully and that the information in the application form was honest and accurate. 
So, it was his responsibility to ensure that it was. He had access to an advisor who 
spoke his language and so if he had concerns about what he was signing it was open 
to him to ask for a translated copy before the advisor finalised the application for him
 
The policy also had a cooling off period during which Mr G had the opportunity to 
check over the relevant documents to ensure that he was happy with the policy. And, 
I note that the advisor summarised the discussion hed had with Mr G in the 
statement of demands and needs. There was no mention of the accident in it. And 
the advisor said the insurer provider would write to Mr G to confirm whether any 
exclusions would be applied which could affect a claim, such as a pre-existing 
condition. He went on to say that it was important for Mr G to use this as an 
opportunity to check the cover being offered in order to make sure that it met his 
needs and was acceptable to him. He said that if it wasnt acceptable or Mr G had 
any queries Mr G had agreed to contact him. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman