DRN-3696835
The complaint
Mr K complains that technical issues with IG Index Limiteds (IG) platform prevented him 
from accessing his account, so he was unable to close his positions when he wanted, 
causing him financial losses.
 
What happened
Mr Ks position
Mr K held a Contracts for Difference (CFD) account with IG. On 22 January 2021 between 
19:56 and 20:31 and on 28 January 2021 between 14:20 and 14:40, he says he tried to 
access his account but due to a technical IT error on their platform, he was unable to do this. 
He says he intended to close his position in AMC Entertainment at 371 and then re-enter the 
market to make additional profit as he normally would do but was prevented from doing so.  
He says he emailed IG and called them but didnt get through to them despite waiting for 30 
minutes.
As a result of not being able to log in, he says he lost £960 and £6,838 respectively. To 
resolve his complaint, he asked for his losses to be reimbursed with interest and to be paid 
£10,000 for loss of opportunity.
IGs position 
IG considered the positions on 22 January 2021 which Mr K complained about. His positions 
in AMC Entertainment were not closed on that day as Mr K had wanted, but he closed these 
on 25 January 2001 at a higher price so did not suffer any loss here. They also refused to 
pay Mr K for missed opportunities.
On 28 January 2021 between 14:35 and 15:10, there were technical issues with the 
platform, but these began at 14:35 after Mr Ks position in AMC Entertainment had already 
closed correctly due to a stop loss order and not because of any technical issues with the 
platform. They say they price dropped lower that day so Mr K could have re-entered the 
market and benefitted from the lower price as he was logged into the platform at 14:49. They 
didnt think he suffered a loss as a result of any platform issues and rejected his complaint.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr K brought his complaint to this service.
Investigators view
The investigator here didnt uphold his complaint. She says Mr K didnt suffer a loss as a 
result of the platform access issues on 22 January 2021 as he sold his positions later at a 
better price. She didnt think compensation should be awarded for loss of opportunity. 
She accepted that platform issues did happen on 28 January 2021, but these were after his 
position had correctly closed due to a stop loss order that was already in place. She didnt 
uphold his complaint. 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators view, so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the information and evidence that I have 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. Having done so, I think there are 
two main issues here. One is whether Mr K was denied access to his account during the 
period he complains of, and secondly whether IG are responsible for any losses he incurred 
because he was unable to log into his account to close his positions when he wanted to, so I 
have looked specifically at what happened on each of these days. 
22 January 2021
In their final response, IG say there were no platform login issues on 22 January 2021, but I 
have seen emails theyve sent to Mr K on 23 January 2021 confirming there were, as well as 
screenshot evidence hes provided us showing he was unable to log into his account due to 
an unexpected error. 
Mr K said he couldnt access his account between 19:56 and 20:31 so he was unable to 
close his position in AMC Entertainment. These were not closed on 22 January 2021 but 
when the market re-opened on 25 January 2001. The candlestick chart Ive seen shows the 
highest rate available in the market was 371 on the 22 January 2021 and didnt go above 
this that day. As Mr K did close these at a better rate than 371, he didnt suffer a loss as a 
result of not being able to close then. 
I take on board Mr Ks comments that he intended to close these and then re-enter the 
market to take advantage of the lower rate. Whilst I fully accept what he is saying he would 
have done; I have to consider what has happened and on balance what is most likely to 
have happened based on the evidence I have been presented with. There is no evidence 
that Mr K would have closed on the 22 January 2021, and then re-entered the market. I 
appreciate he did contact IG to tell them of the issues he was having but these do not 
suggest or confirm his intention to re-enter the market. In the absence of evidence to say he 
would have re-entered the market, it is almost impossible for me to say this is what he would 
have done. As such, I cant say he has suffered a loss opportunity or that he should be 
compensated.  
28 January 2021
IG accepts there were login issues on IGs platform on 28 January 2021 and I have seen the 
screenshots Mr K sent confirming these errors on that day, but they do not demonstrate the 
time of these errors. I say this because IG say these issues didnt affect Mr Ks access to the 
platform as he suggests. They say the access issues began at 14:35, after his position in 
AMC Entertainment had already been closed at 14:30:26. 
A stop loss order was already set at 1974 and I have seen from the candlestick data that 
movement in the market meant the opening market price was 1196, so his stop loss was 
triggered as soon as the market opened. Mr K could have altered this stop loss before the 
market opened, but Ive seen no evidence that this has happened. So, I am satisfied that the 
position was closed due to the stop loss being correctly triggered because of the market 
price and that his position wasnt impacted by any login issues that day. In terms of any opportunity Mr K may have lost, the market information for AMC 
Entertainment that day shows the price had dropped further to 1175. As Mr K was actively 
trading on his account from 14:49, he could have re-entered the market if he wanted to 
maintain his exposure to AMC Entertainment and taken advantage of the movement in price, 
but he hasnt done so. 
While I accept, he did have initial IT issues with logging into the platform, Im not persuaded 
these issues resulted in a loss to Mr K. Looking at the information available, I am satisfied 
that he made a profit despite access issues on 22 January 2021 and his position on 28 
January 2021 was closed because of a stop loss order being triggered before any login 
issues happened. I appreciate Mr K will be disappointed with my decision, but it is based on 
the evidence that is presented to me, and without any clear evidence to confirm IG was at 
fault, I cant say that they were responsible for the losses he claims.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint against IG Index Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman