DRN-3819469
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd trading as 
Perfect Pet (PP) and their decision to decline a claim made on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C took out an annually renewable pet insurance policy with PP. Her renewed policy 
started in November 2021. In April 2022, Mrs Cs pet needed treatment and she made a 
claim against her policy. But PP declined the claim on the grounds it was excluded by the 
policy terms with respect to behaviour issues. 
Mrs  C didnt agree with PPs response and referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator said that Mrs Cs pet, Ill call R had been diagnosed with a condition that 
wasnt caused by previously demonstrated behaviour issues.  So, the exclusion clause 
hadnt been applied fairly. He said he hadnt seen any previous claims for the diagnosed 
condition and asked PP to reconsider the claim.
PP didnt agree they said the pets medical history showed the condition was behavioural.
As the parties dont agree Mrs Cs complaint has been referred to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Our established approach is that, where an insurer wants to rely on an exclusion clause to 
turn down a claim, its for the insurer to show its fair for it to do so. Its not for the consumer 
to show the clause doesnt apply.
Ive considered the policy Mrs C had with PP. The policy wording sets out what PP would 
and wouldnt cover. And the exclusion used by them to decline Mrs Cs claim was:
Any claim for the Treatment of Behavioural Issues or Aggression.
The policy provides a definition of what this would mean:
Means a change in the normal, everyday behaviour of Your pet caused by a medical, 
mental or emotional ailment.
And that:
Any claim relating to Behavioural Issues. The costs for any diagnosis and investigations into 
the cause of Behavioural Issues are also excluded
PP feel strongly that the medical history for R shows several examples of behaviour issues, 
going off food, pulling out fur, not co-operating with the vet. Ive considered the medical 
history and can see that that there were some behaviour issues in early 2016 following the 
death of another of Mrs Cs pets. And later in 2016 when R was taken to the vet for an 
ulcerated eye the vet notes difficulty in worming R. But I can also see the vet referred to R 
as being lovely on a visit in early 2017. Mrs C did ask her vet about what she considered 
Rs odd vocal noise in early 2021 but the vet didnt find any issues and no treatment was 
recommended. I cant see there being any behaviour issues on subsequent routine visits. 
Its in February 2022 when R is taken to the vets because of howling and frequent visits to 
the litter tray. And the vet  notes suspect stress cystitis. And its this note that I think PP are 
relying on to decline the presenting condition as stress would be considered as being 
behavioural.
Mrs C wasnt happy with  the treatment R received and went to another vet in April 2022. 
Ive considered Rs medical history. The notes refer to R getting regular urinary tract 
infections.  And the claim form Mrs C completed says the vet was visited as there was 
Blood in the Urine  crying. And the vet notes on the claim Urinary Tract Infection
On reviewing the clinical evidence very carefully, while the above are the symptoms 
presented the vet subsequently found and diagnosed urolithiasis  kidney stones. 
Kidney stones are hard deposits made of minerals and salts that form inside the kidneys and 
are usually the result of diet. In August 2022, I can see that Mrs Cs vet  says the condition 
isnt connected to the suspected stress cystitis that the previous vet had suggested as a 
possible cause. 
I can see from PPs final response letter that theyd sort the opinion of Rs previous vet. 
And refer to an email sent by Mrs Cs previous vet about urine signs and symptoms which 
says :
could have been due to an underlying urolith, however these signs are very non-specific 
and could be due to other urinary or other pathology, including stress cystitis (a medical 
condition that young cats can commonly get).
This does suggest that a kidney stone could have been the cause in February 2022, but they 
dont discount stress cystitis and qualify when this could likely be the case. 
From Mrs Cs claim form Rs date of birth is noted as 2015, so at the time of examination in 
February 2022 R was seven years old  I dont think this would be considered as being a 
young cat. And as outlined above subsequent examination has established that R has 
kidney stones and not stress cystitis.
As kidney stones arent specific to behaviour I dont think PP has acted fairly or reasonably 
in applying the exclusion term that they have.
Taking everything into account, I believe PP should reassess the claim on the basis that any 
costs incurred for urolithiasis as described by the vet, are covered  albeit in line with the 
remaining policy terms.My final decision
For the above reasons, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I ask Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd trading as Perfect Pet to reassess the claim without 
reference to the exclusion clause preciously applied, and in line with the remaining terms. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman