DRN-1890531
The complaint
Mr D complains that Inman & Associates Ltd trading as Inman Insurance Broker Group 
(Inman) were negligent in the course of arranging professional indemnity insurance. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.  
Mr D submits that a mistake was made by Inman as they completed the retroactive date 
box on the application form incorrectly  which has resulted in him being left with 
inadequate cover. 
It is accepted by both parties that the incorrect date was used, and I appreciate that a 
mistake has undoubtedly been made in these circumstances. But I do not think it is a 
mistake that Inman can fairly be held liable for, given that the date they selected was based 
on formal (albeit erroneous) policy documentation provided by Mr D, which showed the 
retroactive date as 30 March 2016. 
Mr D says Inman should have at least verified the details they had been given with his past 
insurers. But I do not think this is a reasonable expectation, as I think a broker is fairly 
entitled to rely on the information theyve been given by their client, unless they had any 
reason to doubt its accuracy. But in these circumstances, I do not think there was anything 
that ought reasonably to have given Inman any cause to doubt whether the 
information/policy documentation they had been given by Mr D was in fact accurate.
Mr D says that Inman should have confirmed with him whether he was happy with the 
retroactive date. I appreciate that he had left this section of the policy application blank. But 
as far as Inman were concerned, Mr D had given them all the information they needed to 
effectively fill in the gaps. So I do not think they were under any obligation to reach out to 
Mr D to confirm whether he was happy with the retroactive date  especially when he would 
have the opportunity to query/challenge anything that wasn't right once the broker had 
issued the policy schedule. 
Mr D has also explained that he was unfamiliar with the term retroactive date and says that 
if Inman had explained the term to him, he could have advised them that he had changed his 
indemnity cover from a claims occurring to a claims made basis in March 2014. Ive 
considered the information that Inman provided in this regard, and I can see that they sent 
the policy schedule/documentation to Mr D by email on 4 April 2017, where they said:
Should you have any queries regarding your cover or there is anything you are 
unsure of, do not hesitate to contact us immediatelyIt is extremely important that you the Insured understand the claims made basis 
of the policy. Please see the attached Claims Made Notice for further details and 
for guidelines to avoid any problems with claims.
The claims made notice is featured at the beginning of the policy document, and states in 
bold font:
It is extremely important that you understand the claim made basis of this policy. This 
means the policy covers:
Claims first made against you for work undertaken in the period of insurance  from 
the retroactive date or policy start date (whichever is earlier) until the policy end 
date
Mr Ds policy schedule clearly states that the retroactive date for the purposes of his policy 
cover was 31 March 2016. As such  and in light of the advisory notes outlined above  I 
think it ought to have been clear from the policy documentation that Mr D was only covered 
for claims in respect of work carried out from March 2016. It was therefore incumbent on him 
to check through the documentation he had been given and to query anything he wasnt sure 
of or that didnt look right  such as a retroactive date of 2016 rather than 2014.
So Im not persuaded that Inman have failed to comply with any of their relevant obligations 
when they arranged this cover for Mr D. I appreciate that a mistake has been made, and that 
this has left Mr D in a difficult position facing a liability claim without cover. But as Ive set out 
earlier, I do not think this is a mistake in which Inman can fairly be held liable.  
I understand that Mr D has since raised a complaint with the party that provided the incorrect 
date in the first place, which is in the process of being considered. But given that this final 
decision concerns only the acts and omissions of Inman, this is not something I can 
comment on at this juncture.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman