DRN-4191733
The complaint
Mr R complains that MBNA Limited made errors in administering his credit card accounts, 
causing him to incur interest and charges that he should not have incurred. Mr R is unhappy 
with how long it took MBNA to resolve these issues and with the general level of service he 
has received.
What happened
Mr R held two credit card accounts with MBNA. 
In December 2019, he contacted MBNA about his card ending *7638, to enquire about a 
promotional rate for balance transfers that MBNA was offering. MBNA agreed to offer Mr R 
this promotional rate, but then did not apply the reduced interest rate and fees it had agreed 
to.
Mr R contacted MBNA about this issue several times, but it was not corrected, so in 
November 2020,  he raised a formal complaint about this. MBNA issued a final response 
letter regarding this issue in December 2020, it agreed that it had made an error in not 
applying the agreed promotion. To resolve Mr Rs complaint, it said it would pay him £200, 
refund the interest and fees that had been applied in error, and ensure his balance was on 
0% interest until February 2022 as per the original promotional offer.
Mr R had further concerns about this account, specifically relating to how the refunds had 
been paid, a direct debit being cancelled, and the impact of that on his credit file. MBNA 
responded to confirm that the refunds had been paid into Mr Rs credit card account, to 
explain why the direct debit had been cancelled, and to say that it would arrange for Mr Rs 
credit file to be updated to remove the missed payments.
Mr R remained unhappy with this, he was expecting the interest and fees that were refunded 
to be paid into his current account. MBNA initially said it could arrange for the funds to be 
transferred to his current account  but that this would increase the outstanding balance of 
his credit card  and offered an additional £100 compensation. After further correspondence, 
and what appears to have been a delay of around 6 weeks on MBNAs part, it made a final 
offer to put things right for this account in October 2021. Specifically, it confirmed it had 
updated his credit file, offered to increase its compensation offer to £500, and made 
payments to his current account to reflect the interest and fees that should not have been 
applied. Its worth noting here that these refunds had already been applied to Mr Rs credit 
card account, and MBNA did not take those payments back from the credit card when it 
made the payments again to Mr Rs current account.
Mr Rs credit card ending *4368 was also on a promotional rate, which was due to end in 
February 2021. Mr R contacted MBNA in February 2021 about repaying the balance, but he 
says he was told that the promotional rate was not due to expire until August 2021. As a 
result, he did not repay the balance as he thought he had more time, but this meant that in 
the following months he was charged extra interest that he had not been expecting.
Mr R raised a complaint about this issue with MBNA in July 2021. MBNA has confirmed it 
misfiled this complaint and did not look into it properly until September 2021. At that stage, it 
agreed it had made an error, and in October 2021 it offered to pay Mr R £250 for any 
distress and inconvenience caused, refund the interest and charges applied (with this refund 
going to Mr Rs current account), waive interest until 30 March 2022, and remove any record 
of missed payments from Mr Rs credit file.
Overall, Mr R is unhappy with the compensation offered and with how MBNA has handled 
things. He does not feel the offer includes compensation for the impact on his credit file, and 
also feels that MBNA has continued to provide poor service since this offer was made, 
specifically relating to interest being once again applied to his accounts  Mr R says he was 
told it would be suspended while we considered his complaint.
One of our Investigators looked into all that had happened, and overall they felt that MBNA 
had taken reasonable steps to fairly resolve Mr Rs complaint and to compensate him for the 
errors made. They did not feel there was evidence to show that any agreement had been 
made to suspend interest while we investigated this complaint.
Mr R remained unhappy, hes provided call recordings which he feels prove that the 
compensation offered by MBNA did not include compensation for the impact on his credit 
file. He also maintains that he was told no interest would be applied while his complaint was 
ongoing, and has referred to the date he thinks a call regarding that issue took place. He 
also says that he had asked for a settlement balance around this time, but had received no 
response.
As no agreement could be reached, this complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
There is no question here that MBNA did make errors in its handling of Mr Rs accounts and 
in how it handled his complaint. But Im satisfied that the offers it ultimately made in October 
2021 were a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
My role here is to ensure that Mr R is put back in the position he would have been in if any 
errors had not occurred, and then to consider what level of compensation is appropriate for 
any distress and inconvenient caused.
For card ending *7638 Mr R had incorrectly been put on a higher interest rate and had been 
charged higher transfer fees than he should have been. So to put him back in the position he 
should have been in MBNA needed to refund any interest and fees that were erroneously 
charged, ensure that the original promotional rates he had been offered were put in place, 
and ensure that any adverse effect on Mr Rs credit file as a result of these issues was 
corrected. And that is what MBNA has done, it has refunded the extra interest and fees to 
Mr Rs current account, ensured his card was put onto the promotional rate until February 
2022 as originally agreed, and has shown that it contacted the credit reference agencies to 
update his credit file to remove any missed payments caused as a result of this.
In fact, MBNA actually went further than this. When it refunded the interest and charges to 
Mr Rs current account, it had already reduced his credit card balance by that same amount, and it didnt reverse that reduction. What this means is that while Mr R was incorrectly 
charged interest and fees of £2,670.44, he has now essentially received refunds of double 
that amount, totalling £5,340.88, with half of that as a direct payment to him and half as a 
reduction in his outstanding credit card balance.
For card ending *4368 Mr R was given inaccurate information about when the promotional 
interest rate on his card would come to an end. As a result, he did not repay the balance 
when he had originally intended to and incurred additional interest. So to put Mr R back in 
the position he would have been in had this error not occurred, MBNA needed to refund the 
additional interest applied and ensure that any adverse information recorded as a result of 
this extra interest was removed from Mr Rs credit file. Again, this is what MBNA has done, 
the interest was refunded direct to Mr Rs current account and MBNA has shown that it 
contacted the credit reference agencies to update his credit file to remove any missed 
payment markers.
And, once again, MBNA then went further in trying to resolve Mr Rs complaint, by agreeing 
to waive interest on his account until March 2022.
So, for both of these cards Im satisfied that the steps MBNA took to resolve Mr Rs 
complaint did put him back in the position he would have been in had these errors not 
occurred. However, I do agree that this process was drawn out and that the service Mr R 
received overall was below the standard we would expect. What I then have to consider is 
whether the compensation paid to Mr R is appropriate for both the original errors, and for 
any issues then following on from that.
MBNA has offered Mr R £750 compensation in total for distress and inconvenience. Mr R 
says that does not include any compensation for the effect on his credit file as this offer was 
made before MBNA had checked to see whether any missed payment markers had been 
recorded and so could not include compensation for that matter. But I dont agree with Mr 
Rs interpretation of the call he had with MBNA about this issue, or that the staff member lied 
to him or tried to mislead him in any way. And in any case, MBNA is not required to detail 
specific compensation for each error made. It has to compensate for the trouble and upset 
that Mr R has experienced overall. In total Mr R has been offered £750 compensation as 
well as the additional reduction in his credit card balance of £2,670.44. This is significantly 
more than I would have recommended as compensation if MBNA hadnt offered it  so I 
dont consider that any further compensation is now warranted. 
I note what Mr R has said about MBNAs actions since this complaint was referred to us, 
specifically that he says he was told interest would be suspended while we looked into his 
complaint. But MBNA has no record of the call Mr R says took place on 21 July 2022, and 
the call recordings and notes that I have seen do not suggest that MBNA has told Mr R that 
interest would be suspended past the dates given in the final response letters. So, with what 
Ive seen, I dont consider I can fairly find that MBNA did make that promise to Mr R.
I acknowledge Mr Rs frustration here, and I agree that MBNA could have handled things 
better, but I am satisfied that what it has done, including the offer of £750 compensation, is a 
fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint, and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint MBNA should pay Mr R the £750 compensation it has offered to 
him.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. MBNA Limited should now pay the compensation it has 
offered as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman