DRN-1579619
The complaint
Mr Ps unhappy with Acromas Insurance Company Limited actions regarding his breakdown 
repair cover.
Another company was involved in this complaint, but Acromas are responsible for this 
complaint so Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr P couldnt get his car started. He called Acromas out to help him with 
this. He said the patrolman told him to take the car to a manufacturers garage, that the 
repair would be around £700, and this repair would be partially covered under the policy 
terms. Mr P had to leave his car at this garage, so got a hire car to keep him mobile during 
this time. The repair came to just over £1,000 and he submitted a claim. Mr Ps claim was 
turned down as it wasnt covered under the policy terms. Unhappy with this, Mr P 
complained to Acromas.
Acromas replied to the complaint and said Mr P wasnt experiencing any financial detriment 
because of this  but did accept the patrolman should have been clear over whats covered. 
They gave feedback to the patrolman, and said the claim isnt covered under the policy 
terms.
Unhappy with this Mr P asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so, and 
ultimately, he felt Acromas had acted fairly.
Mr P disagreed. He said hed relied on the information given to him by the patrolman, and 
because of that he was out of pocket. So, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint I think there are two different issues to consider  whether the claim itself 
would have been covered, and the financial loss Mr P has claimed for.
The claim
I think itll help to explain that my decision here needs to be based on what Mr P should have 
been told, rather than holding Acromas to what he says he was told.
Mr P has said the patrolman told him that his claim would be covered. Acromas have said it 
wouldnt have been, so Ive looked at the policy terms to understand what the right answer 
is.
The patrolman has reported that the issues were due to water being in the car. Mr P has 
signed this, and Ive not seen anything from him otherwise to say he disagrees with this.
There is a term in Mr Ps policy that says Acromas wont pay out for claims due to water 
penetrating the car.
I accept the patrolman may have given Mr P wrong information as hes said  but ultimately 
Mr P would never have been covered under his policy for this issue. So, it wouldnt be fair to 
order Acromas to pay the claim.
The advice given by the patrolman
Mr P says the only reason he went to the garage he did, incurring the costs he did, was on 
the advice of the patrolman.
Acromas dispute this, and say the notes recorded by the patrolman prove this. Mr P also 
says the notes prove his claim. The notes both Acromas and Mr P are relying on say 
Customer to go straight togarage.
I think these comments are ambiguous. I think they reasonably could be used to support 
either version of events. Acromas have said the patrolman was given feedback. It seems 
unlikely theyd have felt the need to give feedback to the patrolman if he didnt do anything 
wrong. I do note Mr P has also provided additional comments which could support his claim 
about what he was told  quite specific information about the patrolman that could easily be 
proved or disproved.
We put these comments to Acromas, and asked for further information, which they said they 
werent prepared to provide and cited data protection concerns. That may be fair, so in the 
absence of further information I need to decide what I think is most likely, based on all the 
information Ive got.
I do think its likely the patrolman gave Mr P the advice he says they did  but for reasons Ill 
go on to explain, I dont think its appropriate to hold them responsible for the losses Mr P is 
claiming for.
Mr P says originally the costs were going to be £700 but ended up being over £1,000. I think 
itd have been reasonable for Mr P to find out what the costs might have been, before 
agreeing to any repairs. And I accept the patrolman most likely gave him the advice Mr P 
says he did about where to take his car and how much it may cost. But it seems unlikely to 
me that the patrolman would have been so definite about the potential cost that Mr P didnt 
feel the need to check it  or suggested in any way Mr P doesnt check the cost of repairs 
before agreeing to them.
So, with this in mind I think its fair to say Mr P could have gone to another garage if he 
wasnt happy with the cost of repairs at the garage he was at. And while I can understand 
why Mr P may have relied on what he was told, I dont think that means Acromas should be 
held responsible for everything that happened afterwards.
Taking all of the above information into account, Im satisfied Acromas have turned down 
Mr Ps claim fairly, and I dont think theyre responsible for his additional costs.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020. 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman