The complaint
Ms X has complained that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA refused to refund a payment she 
said she didnt make.
What happened
A purchase was made from Ms Xs PayPal account for £104.94 on 25 December 2018.
On 13 May 2019, Ms X contacted PayPal to say she hadnt made the purchase. She said 
her ex boyfriend had stolen her account and he'd made the purchase. 
She asked PayPal to refund her.
PayPal decided not to refund her. It said the purchase was made from her account, using 
the same IP address which had been used previously for genuine transactions. It also said it 
had sent her an email the same day confirming the purchase. However, she didnt report the 
transaction at the time but waited until May 2019.
It held Ms X liable because she'd breached the user agreement by sharing her passwords 
and login details with her ex boyfriend. 
Ms X wasnt happy with this decision, so she asked us to investigate.
An investigator looked into her complaint and decided not to uphold it because Ms X had 
shared her account details with her ex boyfriend, in breach of the user agreement.
Ms X disagreed with the investigators view. She said she didnt share her password with her 
ex boyfriend and only assumed it was he who had made the purchase. She now says 
she doesnt know who made the purchase. And she said she didnt receive the email 
confirmation from PayPal.
This case has now come to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm afraid I've reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons.
From what I've seen, I don't think it's unreasonable for PayPal to hold Ms X liable for the 
purchase because:
DRN-1592594the purchase was made from her PayPal account. Whoever made the purchase
needed the login details and password for the account. If Ms X didnt share that
information with anyone else or keep a written note, then she is the only person who
could have made the purchase.
The account was accessed from the same IP address as the one used by Ms X for
genuine transactions in the past. Again, the person knew the login details to the
device which was used.
Until recently, Ms X has consistently said she shared a computer with her ex
boyfriend and that he stole her account.
Ms X has now changed her version of events. She is saying she doesn't know who had 
access to her account. However, I believe her original version of events which is that her ex 
boyfriend made the purchase. That was her evidence from the outset. But if it wasnt him 
then it could only be her, as she said she was the only person who knew the login details 
and passwords to the computer and her PayPal account. And if it was him, then Im afraid 
she must have  shared her Paypal account details with him. This is a breach of the user 
agreement.
I am also satisfied that PayPal sent the email confirmation to her. Ive seen a copy of it. I 
dont see any reason why PayPal would fabricate the email. It shows her email address. 
There are no errors. I believe its more likely than not that she received the email and either 
didnt notice it or chose to ignore it because she knew about the purchase. 
Im very sorry if Ms Xs ex boyfriend used her account to buy goods and left her out of pocket 
but Im afraid PayPal is entitled to hold her liable for the payment. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to ask it to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms X to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman