DRN-3018871
The complaint
Mr C complains about delays and poor service from Santander UK Plc after it ordered a new
debit card.    
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In February 2020 Mr C contacted Santander after he was a victim of fraud and it cancelled
his debit card with the intention of issuing a new one. But, because of the way Mr Cs
account was set up there were delays.
Santander has explained that Mr Cs account was acquired when it took over another
business. Mr Cs mother is named as a third party on his account with authority to act on his
behalf. Due to the way the account was recorded on Santanders systems it needed Mr C to
complete a form.
Mr C was initially told that he and his mother would need to attend a branch to resolve the
way his account was set up. Mr C has explained that he suffers from serious health
problems that meant visiting a branch wasnt an option. Mr C has also told us his mother is
disabled and would find it very difficult to attend.
Santander agreed to send Mr C the form he needed to complete and he returned it, via
recorded delivery, to Santander. The notes show it was received on 24 March 2020.
Santander says it was then sent to the relevant department to process.
Mr C complained and Santander responded at the beginning of April 2020 and apologised
that it hadnt contacted him as agreed and paid £40 compensation. A replacement debit card
was sent to Mr C on 10 June 2020.
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. In its file
submission, Santander said it wanted to increase the compensation offered to Mr C from
£40 to £100. Our investigator thought Santanders offer was fair so didnt ask it to do
anything else.
Mr C asked to appeal and said he had been given unclear and misleading advice throughout
the process of obtaining a new debit card. Mr C also said it wasnt reasonable that
Santander referred him to the branch given his medical history and that he had sent the
required form back in good time. Mr C advised he didnt agree the delays experienced were
as a result of the pandemic and felt Santanders offer of £100 was unfair. As Mr C asked to
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr C for the level of detail hes provided about his health problems and how
he was impacted by the issues raised. I havent given the full details in the above
background because the investigators findings set them out. And Im conscious that our
decisions are published and want to ensure the personal and private information Mr C has
provided remains so. Id like to assure Mr C Ive taken his personal circumstances into
account when considering how to fairly resolve this complaint.
Santander says a setting on its systems meant it couldnt issue a replacement debit card to
Mr C after it cancelled the existing one in the middle of February 2020. Santander ultimately
sent Mr C a replacement on 10 June 2020, around four months after the original card was
cancelled. Ive looked at the overall timeline to see whether Mr C was treated fairly by
Santander.
I understand the lockdown impacted how Santander operated and led to delays processing
requests for items like new debit cards. But I also think its reasonable to note that the
starting point for the issues raised was that, after Mr Cs account was acquired from another
business, it was set up incorrectly. The settings meant Santander couldnt send Mr C a
replacement debit card in February 2020 despite the fact he is the account holder. I can see
that the requirement for a form to be completed led to substantial delays in this case.
I think Mr C could reasonably have expected Santander to ensure his account was set up
correctly when it was acquired. If there were issues like the no interaction setting recorded,
I think Santander shouldve checked whether that was right for Mr Cs circumstances. Its
clear to me, that whilst Mr Cs mother has third party access to the account, he is the
customer and shouldve been able to request standard services, like a replacement debit
card. I also understand Santander had to ensure it completed the required checks to amend
the account but I think its clear that the requirement for Mr C to fill in and return the form
impacted how long it took to resolve the situation.
Mr C has explained that he was initially told he and his mother needed to attend a branch. I
can see thats the case, but Santander agreed to accept a completed form by post which
meant neither Mr C or his mother had to attend a branch.
Santanders records show Mr Cs form was received on 24 March 2020 and passed for
processing. Santander says the form was processed on 1 June 2020 and a new card issued
on 10 June 2020. Santander has explained there were processing delays caused due to the
pandemic and general staffing levels.
I dont doubt that Santander was operating under extremely challenging conditions during
the lockdown and understand they impacted its ability to deal with normal account
operations within the standard time scales. But I have to balance that against Mr Cs
circumstances and the impact of the delay on him. Mr C has explained he suffers with
serious health problems that affects his ability to leave home. As a result, visiting a branch
during the pandemic wasnt something he was able to do. I can see Santander then sent a
form to be completed which Mr C sent back in good time. From that point, Mr C was waiting
for Santander to process his form.
Santander was aware Mr C didnt have access to a debit card which severely limited his
ability to use his account. Mr C had given Santander details of his health problems and
explained why he needed a replacement debit card. Whilst I understand there were delays
caused by the pandemic, I think Mr Cs circumstances shouldve led Santander to prioritise
his case. I dont agree it was fair to leave Mr C without the use of a debit card for a four
month period because of issues in the way his account was set up on Santanders systems.Santander offered Mr C a total of £100 to resolve his complaint but I agree with him that the
figure isnt a fair reflection of impact on him. Mr C now has a working debit card. I intend to
uphold this complaint and direct Santander to increase the compensation offered for the
distress and inconvenience caused from £100 to £250. In my view, that figure more fairly
reflects how the issues raised affected Mr C and the length of time he was without a working
debit card.  
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with additional information they 
wanted me to consider before I reached my final decision. We didnt hear back from 
Santander. Mr C responded to say he still hasnt received an apology from Santander. Mr C 
also said Santander had breached the Equality Act 2010 and was guilty of indirect 
discrimination by asking him to visit his local branch.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for 
the courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order 
to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account including relevant 
law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So although its 
for the courts to say whether or not Santander has breached the Equality Act 2010, were 
required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other things 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr Cs response says he feels Santanders actions breached the Equality Act 2010 and that 
it had discriminated against him by insisting he visit a branch. I can see when Mr C first tried 
to order a new card, he and his mother were asked to visit a branch. But following Mr Cs 
discussions with Santander on 4 March 2020 it arranged to send him the relevant form by 
recorded delivery on 6 March 2020. I agree Santanders initial request for Mr C and his 
mother to attend the branch wasnt suitable because of the issues hes told us about. But 
Santander was able to provide a workaround that meant Mr C and his mother didnt have to 
attend a branch. 
In his response, Mr C has raised concerns that Santander requires customers to attend its 
branches for certain services. I understand Mr Cs concerns but he hasnt told us about any 
specific instances of Santander asking him to attend a branch, beyond the issues set out 
above. We arent the regulator and can only deal with specific complaints about a business 
actions. In this case, as set out above and in my provisional decision, Ive considered Mr Cs 
complaint about the process involved in obtaining a new debit card, including being asked to 
attend Santanders branch. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I agree with Mr C the option of visiting the branch wasnt 
suitable or reasonable in the circumstances hes told us about. I can see Santander sent    
Mr C the form he needed on 6 March 2020 and it was returned and received by Santander 
on 24 March 2020. But it took until 10 June 2020 for Santander to process the form and 
send Mr C a new card. I understand businesses have experienced delays, but I remain of 
the view that Santander shouldve sent Mr Cs replacement card to him sooner and that the 
existing settlement doesnt fairly recognise what happened. 
I provisionally upheld Mr Cs complaint and said Santander should increase the settlement 
from £100 to £250. In his response Mr C gave us a greater understanding of how the 
problems he raised impacted him during an already difficult time. Mr C has told us about the amount of time he has spent trying to resolve the situation with Santander. Mr C also told us 
the issues raised impacted his health and meant he had to increase medication. 
I recently contacted both parties and explained that, in light of Mr Cs comments, I intended 
to increase the award further, to £500. Santander has confirmed it understands and is willing 
to proceed. In my view, £500 more reasonably reflects the impact of the issues raised on 
Mr C and is a fairer way to resolve his complaint. As a result, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint 
and telling Santander to pay him a total of £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its actions.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr C a total of 
£500 (less any compensation already paid).   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman