DRN-3181268
The complaint
Mr B and Miss P complain about how ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) dealt with a claim
against their travel insurance policy. Reference to ERV includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here in full. In summary, in July 2019, Mr B and Miss P bought a single trip policy under
the InsureMore brand for a trip with intended departure and return dates of 20 June 2020
and 27 June 2020 respectively.
On 15 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised
against all but essential travel to Mr B and Miss Ps intended destination. That advice
remained in place at the time of their intended departure.
On 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all British tourists who were abroad to return to
the UK and the UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement,
commonly referred to as lockdown. The government announcement included an
instruction to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential reasons.
The airline cancelled Mr B and Miss Ps flights. Mr B and Miss P say that the travel
restrictions meant that they couldnt depart for their trip. Mr B and Miss P made a claim
against their policy in relation to unrecoverable accommodation costs. ERV declined
their claim. It said that the policy doesnt cover what happened here. ERV subsequently
offered to pay 50% of the claim as a gesture of goodwill, less any excess due under the
policy. Mr B and Miss P pursued their complaint.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She recommended that the
complaint be upheld and that ERV deal with Mr B and Miss Ps claim under the
cancellation section of the policy, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the
policy.
ERV didnt agree with the investigator. It said, in summary:
What happened here isnt an insured event.
It doesnt agree that its unfair for it to rely on the general exclusion in the policy 
which relates to travelling against FCDO advice.
No policy covers every unforeseen event and whats covered is reflected in the 
premium.
Its underwriter says that its standard practice to insure specified perils and if they 
cover a claim thats excluded in the general exclusions, it follows logically that it 
should cover other claims that are generally excluded. The underwriter also said 
that the policyholders had been provided with the policys terms and conditions.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) states that its only a 
summary and refers to the policy documentation.
ERV asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional decision
On 1 November 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case, in which I 
said that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out 
rules and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS). ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims 
promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and IPID in this case. An IPID is designed 
to give consumers a summary of certain information about a policy in a way that is easy to 
understand. This includes excluded risks.
The policy terms and conditions set out the events leading to cancellation covered under 
the policy. What happened here isnt covered by the cancellation section of the policy, so, 
strictly speaking, theres no insured event.
The contract  the terms and conditions of the policy  between Mr B and Miss P and ERV 
says:
SECTION A  Cancellation & Curtailment Charge []
[]
What each Insured-person IS NOT covered for: 
[]
6. Government regulations (other than in respect of compulsory quarantine) [] 
[]
8. Anything excluded by the General Exclusions (see page 13-14) []
The general exclusions section says:
GENERAL EXCLUSIONS REGARDING ALL SECTIONS OF THE POLICY
We shall NOT be liable for
5. Loss, damage, cost or expense of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly caused by, 
resulting from or in connection with any of the following regardless of any other cause or 
event contributing concurrently or in any other sequence in the loss:
[]
Active participation
[]
6. Any claim arising out of or increased by Your failure to follow any advice, or 
recommendation from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and any advice against all or 
non-essential travel to a country or part of it.
Active participation is defined as [] the act of any person voluntarily entering an area
[] against the advice of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office []has the claim been declined unfairly?
As Ive set out above, I dont think that what happened here is covered in the policy terms. 
Ive also looked at the remaining sections of Mr B and Miss Ps policy, but I dont think they 
held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found themselves in 
here. Thats not the end of the matter, as Ive also considered what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the overall circumstances of the case, taking into account industry rules and 
guidance and the relevant law.
There are some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy exclusions such as an exclusion for 
claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might think its fair and reasonable for an 
insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think 
thats the case here and Ill explain why.
As Ive set out above, Mr B and Miss Ps policy also excludes claims for Government 
regulations (other than in respect of compulsory quarantine).
Its hard to say with any certainty that there was one specific reason for Mr B and Miss Ps 
claim. I think a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and 
government restrictions both in the UK and abroad  are all likely to have impacted to some 
degree on the cancellation of the trip.
But Mr B and Miss Ps trip was cancelled after 23 March 2020  which was the date the UK 
restrictions on movement were announced and these restrictions remained in force at the 
time of Mr B and Miss Ps intended departure. So, they couldnt have travelled because of 
Government regulations. Thats excluded in the policy.
So, not only are the reasons for the cancellation of Mr B and Miss Ps trip not covered as 
listed, insured events under their policy, I think the exclusion in relation to Government 
regulations applies to the circumstances of their claim in any event.
In summary, Mr B and Miss Ps claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of their 
policy and I dont think that there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask 
ERV to accept their claim.
[]
ERV has confirmed the availability of its earlier offer to pay Mr B and Miss P 50% of their 
claim as a gesture of goodwill, less the excesses due under the policy. If Mr B and Miss P
wish to accept that offer, they should contact ERV direct.
Responses to my provisional decision
ERV said that it had nothing further to add. Mr B responded on his and Miss Ps behalf. 
He said, in summary:
Nationally enforced lockdown meant that they couldnt leave the country, which is 
the same as compulsory quarantine. 
The policy terms excluded a claim arising out of failure to follow government 
advice: they followed national guidance. 
If they had gone on their trip, they wouldnt have been covered under the policy, 
but they cant claim for cancelling their trip.
They were in a position where, whatever they did, their claim against the policy 
wouldnt be successful. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate that Mr B and Miss P are disappointed by the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. I have considerable sympathy for the position in which they found 
themselves: through no fault of their own, they couldnt go on their trip. 
Having said that, insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. 
An insurer will decide what risks it is willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that their claim falls 
under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. In considering complaints, we also 
look at whether the insurer has acted fairly and reasonably. 
Im afraid I dont agree that the UK governments lockdown provisions amounted to 
compulsory quarantine for Mr B and Miss P. Whilst the lockdown provisions meant that Mr B 
and Miss P couldnt undertake non-essential travel abroad, they were not subject to 
quarantine.
I remain of the view that what happened here isnt one of the insured events. And, in any 
event, for the reasons Ive indicated, I think that ERV could fairly rely on the exclusion 
relating to government regulations, so I dont think that I can fairly direct it to accept Mr B 
and Miss Ps claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold Mr B and Miss Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
ERV has confirmed the availability of its earlier offer to pay Mr B and Miss P 50% of their
claim as a gesture of goodwill, less the excesses due under the policy. If Mr B and Miss P
wish to accept that offer, they should contact ERV direct.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman