DRN-2044784
The complaint
Ms M and Mr T complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
dealing with Ms Ms claim under a travel insurance policy. They want more compensation.
What happened
Ms M and Mr T had a travel insurance policy with AXA. They went on holiday, and Mr T had 
an accident, fracturing his hip (neck of femur). He was repatriated by air ambulance as Mr T 
needed to remain in a flat position. Ms M and Mr T felt AXA delayed the repatriation by at 
least a week between 26 April and 7 May 2019 and complained. 
AXA agreed that it had taken longer than normal to complete the repatriation due to a 
difference of opinion between the treating doctor and AXAs medical team. The dispute was 
about whether to use a commercial flight and a stretcher, and AXA accepted once the 
treating doctor explained why a stretcher was needed, it shouldve considered an air 
ambulance sooner. It offered £150 compensation; later increased to £250 as AXA accepted 
it also shouldve discussed the hotel costs with Ms M earlier. AXA said that it wasnt 
informed Mr T was fit to fly until 29 April, and confirmed that the policy didnt offer the extra 
on-the-ground assistance Mr T expected, such as arranging for extra medication for Ms M or 
dealing with personal matters in the UK.
Ms M and Mr T complained to us as they wanted more compensation for service failings. 
The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said £250 
compensation was fair and reasonable as he didnt think AXA couldve got Mr T home any 
earlier as the companies involved needed seven days notice and the official confirmation 
Mr T was fit to fly was received on 29 April 2019 (meaning 6 May was the earliest return 
date). Mr T was returned using a flight booked for someone else according to the 
investigator. 
The investigator said AXA did take too long to realise it needed an air ambulance, though 
there was a dispute being the medics advising AXA and the treating doctor. He said it 
shouldve realised by 2 May that a stretcher was required and AXA shouldnt have waited for 
an independent doctor to see Mr T and advise. But it didnt delay repatriation significantly in 
the investigators view due to the notice required to arrange a flight.
Ms M and Mr T disagreed. They said AXA couldve made plans in advance and so get them 
home earlier. The investigator explained that the medical evidence was that Mr T wasnt 
declared fit until 29 April and it was too risky for insurers to try to book arrangements until the 
ability of the patient to travel was certain. He also explained that hed thought about what 
wouldve happened if AXA had realised earlier an air ambulance was needed, and the 
evidence in his view showed Mr T wouldnt have been able to fly home much earlier. 
Ms M and Mr T felt AXA shouldve offered more help with language and welfare issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to AXA, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The core of this complaint is about the repatriation of Mr T. The policy Ms M and Mrs T had 
wasnt one that offered the services Ms M and Mr T argue shouldve been provided, such as 
supplying Ms Ms medication or translation services. The policy limited the amounts 
recoverable for expenses.
Mr Ts repatriation wasnt simple for two reasons  the need for him to lie flat and the 
location. Its worth remembering that AXA could only proceed on the information it received 
from the various doctors involved and could only pick from a limited number of options to get 
Mr T home safely. Having looked at the evidence available to me, it wasnt until 29 April 
2019 that the treating doctor told AXA that Mr T was fit to fly and answered the questions it 
raised about his current health. It was this date that the doctor also said Mr T needed a 
stretcher.
Until a patient is confirmed by a doctor as fit to fly, it isnt fair or reasonable to expect 
insurers to make arrangements as it could lead to wasted costs. I appreciate that 
Ms M and Mr T say plans couldve been made but repatriation plans are complex and 
depend on the exact medical condition of the patient at the time, and often involve 
timetables. Little can be done in advance, particularly when spaces are limited and booked 
quickly.
Both Mr T and AXAs medical team thought using a commercial flight was a reasonable 
option. Only one airline locally would allow the use of a stretcher and it required seven days 
notice. Allowing for the necessary time in making arrangements, I dont think getting Mr T 
home before 6 or 7 May was possible if he flew commercially.
But there was a dispute between AXAs medical team, doctors who specialise in repatriation, 
and the treating doctor. It took the treating doctor time to respond to questions and explain 
why he felt Mr T needed to remain flat. This isnt AXAs fault. But I think it shouldve 
considered an air ambulance at an earlier date, both due to location and Mr Ts need to 
remain flat. Certainly, by 2 May, AXA shouldve started to explore this option, rather than the 
options it chose to explore. I can appreciate why it sent an independent doctor to see Mr T to 
advise further, but a fair and reasonable approach wouldve been to consider the air 
ambulance earlier, which wouldve negated the need to send the independent doctor.
It often is quicker than seven days to arrange an air ambulance and I can see in Mr Ts case, 
it was arranged in a timely way once AXA decided to do so. I think if AXA had acted earlier, 
Ms M and Mr T probably wouldve been home a day or so earlier, but I bear in mind that 
matters were made easier by the fact other air ambulance journeys for third parties were 
being organised at the same time (though in the end Ms M and Mr T travelled without other 
patients). I cant say Ms M and Mr T suffered financial loss based on the evidence before 
me.
But the delay did cause stress and uncertainty at a time when Mr T was unwell and in a 
foreign country. Neither Ms M and Mr T spoke the language, which increased their upset. I 
note that AXA accepted that it also didnt discuss the issue of hotel costs promptly with 
Ms M. Im satisfied that AXAs failings caused trouble and upset to Mr T and Ms M, but 
compensation must be limited to that caused by AXA, not the whole situation, which was no 
doubt difficult. Money never truly compensates for trouble and upset. Taking into account all 
the circumstances, I think the offer of £250 is fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused by the delayed repatriation and failing to discuss hotel costs earlier. Much of 
Ms M and Mr Ts upset are about matters for which AXA wasnt responsible.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Ms M and Mr T 
whether to accept the offer of £250 compensation from AXA Insurance UK Plc. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman