DRN-4120014
The complaint
Mr A complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim he made under his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
In mid-2022, Mr A made a claim under his home insurance policy with Ageas after an airline 
lost his luggage. 
Mr A said hed made a claim with the airline, but 28 days had passed, and he hadnt heard 
anything back. Ageas asked Mr A to send it a list of his lost contents and any receipts he 
could provide. 
After Mr A informed Ageas that the airline had offered him some compensation for his lost 
luggage, it asked him to provide his flight itinerary and correspondence from the airline.
Following the receipt of further information from Mr A, Ageas said it couldnt consider his 
claim. It told Mr A that it wouldnt cover his loss as this was already being covered by the 
airline. 
Mr A raised a complaint with Ageas. He said the airline had only offered him part of the value 
of his lost items, which he hadnt accepted because of Ageas advice. He didnt think it was 
fair that Ageas had closed his claim.
Ageas maintained its position, so Mr A asked our service to consider his complaint. Our 
investigator thought Ageas had treated Mr A unfairly by not considering his claim. He also 
thought its communication with Mr A was unclear. The investigator recommended that 
Ageas consider Mr As claim in line with the policy terms, and pay Mr A £150 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Ageas disagreed with our investigators outcome. It said the airline had offered and covered 
Mr As loss in full and he could not claim for the same loss twice. It questioned why Mr A had 
accepted a lower cash settlement from the airline when they had offered to cover the claim 
in full once receipts and proof of purchase were received. 
Ageas also commented that it would require the same or higher level of validation for the lost 
items. It said that after a full file review and all validation possible being completed it could 
confirm that even if it was to settle Mr As claim it would only look to make a payment of 
around £43, after deducting the payment made by the airline and the policy excess.
Ageas said it had stated that the airline would be the most appropriate pathway for Mr A to 
claim for his lost belongings as they had already said they would cover his loss if he 
provided evidence of the original receipts. Ageas would require the same or higher level of 
validation for the lost items. It said Mr A had already accepted payment in full, from the 
airline and Ageas hadnt told him it would cover any amount the airline did not. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Mr As policy included cover for personal belongings away from home. According to the 
terms, Mr A was insured for loss or damage to (his) or (his) familys personal belongings, 
money and credit cards in the European area. Cover is also provided anywhere else in the 
world for up to 60 days in any period of insurance.
The terms go on to say that the most Ageas will pay is the amount stated in Mr As policy 
schedule, which is showing as £1,000.
Ageas says it couldnt offer cover on the policy because the airline had given Mr A the option 
to fully recover the loss for his items. It says it cannot offer cover for a loss whilst it is being 
covered elsewhere. However, I cant see anything in the terms that states this. Nor has 
Ageas referred to any wording in its policy documents that might be relevant.
Ageas has commented that the airline gave Mr A the opportunity to provide further evidence, 
but he hadnt done so. 
Mr A says that he didnt initially accept the airlines offer of 432 USD. He sent further 
evidence to support his claim to the airline, but it didnt respond.
Within the information Ageas sent to our service, there is an email from Mr A to Ageas 
(dated 3 August 2022) where he forwarded an email hed sent to the airline (dated 25 June 
2022). His email to the airline lists the lost items and says that he managed to get some 
receipts, but other receipts were in the suitcase. He says hes completed it as best as 
possible with some receipts available. 
In the covering email to Ageas, Mr A says: I have contacted the airline in question 3 times 
over the last month with no response so under [sic] were [sic] to go with this one.
So, it looks like Mr A did attempt to provide further evidence to the airline. And Im satisfied 
that Ageas was aware of this when it responded to his complaint.
Ageas has also commented that Mr A also had the option not to accept the compensation 
advised by the airline and seek settlement through Ageas again, but this was not done. 
However, I cant see that Ageas advised Mr A of this option.
In an email Mr A sent Ageas after receiving its response to his complaint he said: They 
have offered me 462 dollars which I have not accepted as per your advice so how can you 
close my claim. Mr A has provided a remittance advice from the airline dated October 2022.  
So, it looks like Mr A accepted the airlines offer after Ageas had refused to consider his 
claim.
Ageas says that even if it had considered Mr As claim it would likely have declined it for a 
different reason or paid only a small settlement. However, I havent considered whether or 
not it would be fair for Ageas to rely on a policy exclusion to decline the claim, or whether the 
amount it says it might pay if it were to settle Mr As complaint is reasonable. These 
considerations go beyond the scope of this complaint.However, I think its worth mentioning that Ive listened to a recording of the call where Mr A 
first notified Ageas of his loss, on 15 June 2022. In this call he said he thought the value was 
about £1,800, rather than the £800 Ageas has noted.
I dont think it was fair for Ageas to have refused to consider Mr As claim for the reason it 
did. So, I think Ageas should consider Mr As claim in line with the policys terms and 
conditions.
I think Ageas should have properly considered Mr As claim and it should also have 
communicated more clearly with him. I think it was frustrating for Mr A to be referred back to 
the airline, when hed shown Ageas that the airline hadnt responded to him after hed 
provided further information to try to evidence his loss. Mr A says he found the claims 
process vague. 
I think Mr A was caused some unnecessary distress and inconvenience as a result of the 
poor customer service he received. So, I think it would be fair for Ageas to pay Mr A £150 to 
compensate him for this.
Putting things right
Ageas should:
Consider Mr As claim, in line with the policys terms and conditions.
Pay Mr A £150 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Ageas Insurance 
Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman