DRN-4162051
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about a claim he made on his U K Insurance Limited, trading as Direct 
Line (UKI) legal expenses insurance policy, which UKI declined.
Mr R says UKI treated him unfairly.
What happened
Mr R made a claim on his UKI legal expenses insurance policy for cover to pursue a claim in 
relation to some boots he purchased which he says were faulty.
UKI instructed their panel firm to consider the claim. They concluded the claim didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success as required by his policy because the other party had 
made a reasonable offer to settle the claim. Mr R was unhappy with the outcome of the 
assessment, so the panel firm assessed his claim again by referring to another appropriate 
lawyer for advice. The advice regarding the prospects of his claim succeeding remained the 
same. Because of this UKI said they werent prepared to fund any further legal costs. 
Mr R is unhappy with the position UKI have taken. In particular he says:
UKI failed to give him freedom to choose his own Solicitor when he was entitled to this;
the panel firm had a conflict of interest so shouldnt have been acting for him;
the advice given to him by the panel firm isnt correct. This is a complex area of law and 
one that requires specialist advice.
Our investigator considered Mr Rs complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. Mr 
R doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. Its a requirement of virtually all legal expenses
insurance policies that any intended claim has a reasonable prospect of succeeding. Mr Rs
policy is no exception. That means his claim needed to be more likely than not to succeed in 
order for UKI to cover it. 
We dont think this is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer
wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed. We wouldnt expect a legal
expenses insurer to fund claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of
the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. So long as it 
has got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally question its reliance on 
that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. UKI did 
this. They obtained the advice of the panel firm who determined that Mr Rs complaint didnt 
have reasonable prospects of being successful. And when Mr R complained about that 
advice, the panel firm arranged for his claim to be reviewed again by another lawyer there. 
Thats not to say that the case was unwinnable, just that it was more likely than not to fail. I 
appreciate that Mr R doesnt agree with that advice, but Ive seen nothing that persuasively 
sets out why the opinions obtained were wrong nor that Mr Rs merits in defending the claim 
were higher than previously advised. 
Although Mr R doesnt agree with the opinions provided, Im satisfied that the lawyers that 
advised him were suitably experienced in the area of law he was asking for help with and 
theres nothing to suggest that those opinions were obviously wrong or based on factual 
mistakes. I realise Mr R feels his claim falls into a complex area of law, such that the panel 
firm werent able to deal with it, but I dont agree. The panel firm had suitable experience in 
the matter that he was asking them to consider, and Im not persuaded that the matter was 
complex in nature. Rather it appears to be a straightforward consumer contract claim that 
most Solicitors firms are able to deal with. Because of this I think UKI were entitled to place 
reliance on the opinions they were given when declining cover.
Mr R has said that he was entitled to the freedom to choose its own Solicitor. Its correct that 
he was entitled to the freedom to choose its own Solicitor when legal proceedings became 
necessary. That means that at the point at which legal proceedings were afoot and 
negotiations failed. But that term is subject to Mr Rs claim having reasonable prospects of 
succeeding. In this case Mr R didnt demonstrate that at all by way of an alternative legal 
opinion of any kind. Because of this and the fact that Mr Rs claim wasnt at a stage where 
proceedings became necessary and negotiations failed, I cant say UKI need to do anything 
further.
Finally, Mr R has referred to there being a conflict of interest between UKI and the panel 
firm. Whilst UKI have a commercial relationship with the panel firm, I havent seen anything 
to suggest this amounts to a conflict of interest. I say so because the panel firm is a separate 
independent firm of professionals with their own code of conduct and regulator. They may 
well take on insurance funded work for UKI, but that in itself doesnt amount to a conflict of 
interest. I can see that Mr R has said hes complained to the Legal Ombudsman separately 
about the panel firms conduct. Thats not something I can comment on save to say the 
actions of the panel firm fall outside of anything I can decide. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against U K Insurance 
Limited, trading as Direct Line. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman