DRN-3365868
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Covea Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim following an escape 
of water from her neighbours property that caused damage to her house, under her home 
insurance policy. 
Mrs W is represented by her daughter Mrs C in this complaint.
Any reference to Covea includes its agents and contractors.
What happened
In February 2021 Mrs W noticed water entering her home. This was found to be the result of 
a burst pipe in her neighbours loft. A claim was made to Covea. It accepted the claim and 
appointed a contractor to arrange for the property to be dried out. 
Mrs C says the standard of care and understanding shown by Covea throughout the claim 
process has been woefully inadequate. But her main concern is that she was told a solicitor 
was to be appointed to reclaim the £500 excess payment. In addition, she says Covea 
agreed the cost of the replacement kitchen would be covered.
Covea says the drying process took longer than usual due to the severity of the leak in the 
neighbouring property. It also says its claim handlers couldve been more proactive in 
speaking with the company dealing with the neighbours claim. 
Covea says its contractor said the kitchen wasnt restorable when this wasnt the case. The 
kitchen was restorable. It says it agreed to fitting the kitchen Mrs W had bought but that she 
was responsible for the cost of buying it. 
Covea says its recovery agents confirmed the weather had caused the burst pipe in the 
neighbours property. So, there was no negligence on the part of the neighbour. This meant 
there was no recourse for the costs Mrs W had incurred. Covea says this wasnt clearly 
communicated to Mrs C and it accepts this caused confusion. To acknowledge these issues, 
it paid £300 compensation to Mrs W.
Mrs W wasnt happy with this outcome and the matter was referred to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Covea was responsible for the time 
taken to dry the property. This was a necessary step prior to starting repairs. She thought it 
was fair for Covea to pay compensation for the misinformation provided and the failure to 
provide timely updates. But she says Covea made Mrs C aware efforts to restore the kitchen 
would be attempted first. This was confirmed before the replacement kitchen was bought. 
Our investigator acknowledged there was some initial confusion around whether a solicitor 
was to be appointed. But found that Covea had later made clear this wasnt possible. She 
thought the £300 compensation already paid was fair for the failings identified, so didnt ask 
Covea to do anything further.  
Mrs C thought this was unfair. She says the neighbour has the same insurer and this is why 
the claim for the £500 excess wasnt pursued. She doesnt think £300 is enough to 
compensate for the problems experienced and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand this will be 
disappointing for Mrs W, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
From the records provided, once the leak had been fixed, a de-humidifier was installed in 
Mrs Ws home. This was a few days after she had made her claim. I understand she was 
able and willing to stay in her home whilst the drying work and repairs were carried out. 
Plasterwork and other areas damaged by the leak were stripped out in order to allow the 
property to dry.   
The records show a further de-humidifier was installed in the property around a month later, 
after the strip out works, to further aid the drying process. 
Covea says it replaced the contractor it had originally been using during the drying process. 
This was in mid-March 2021. It says the contractor was responsible for some delays. Covea 
appointed a new claim handler at this time to manage the claim. From listening to the call 
recordings provided, it was explained to Mrs C that the drying process can take some time to 
complete. Mrs C says there was a lack of communication between Covea and the 
neighbour. The work on her neighbours side was moving more slowly, and this meant the 
party wall remained wet on his side. This slowed the drying process in Mrs Ws property.
The records show the neighbour wasnt in the property at the time the leak occurred. This 
allowed a lot of water to escape. And it took around two months to dry the property to the 
extent that repairs could begin.  
I can understand that this must have been a distressing time for Mrs W and her daughter. It 
took a long time for the property to dry, which must have been very frustrating. But based on 
the evidence I dont think its been shown that this couldve been completed quicker. I 
understand that when the neighbours side of the party wall was stripped out, this aided the 
drying process on Mrs Ws side. But this work was being done independently of Mrs Ws 
claim. I dont think the evidence shows that Covea caused the drying process to take longer 
than it should have. 
Covea accepts its claims handlers couldve been more proactive in attempting to speak with 
the neighbour and the company carrying out the work on that side of the party wall. It 
accepts its contractor shouldnt have told Mrs W her kitchen would need replacing. As it 
intended restoring the kitchen. Because of this I think its fair that Covea agreed to pay Mrs 
W £300 compensation. I think this reasonably acknowledges these failings. 
Mrs W also wants Covea to pay the cost of the replacement kitchen she bought. Covea says 
it was possible to restore the existing kitchen and refit it. The policy doesnt provide cover for 
a new kitchen, so it agreed to cover the cost of fitting but declined to pay the cost of buying 
the new kitchen.
I have thought about Mrs Cs view that Coveas contractor told her the kitchen units couldnt be restored and must be replaced. This is discussed in length during her call with Coveas 
call hander in March 2021. Mrs C says the kitchen units are chipboard and are likely to be 
badly affected by water. She says the contractor told her the kitchen couldnt be put back as 
it was too mouldy. I dont doubt Mrs Cs recollection of what she was told. 
Covea says this isnt something its contractor shouldve discussed with Mrs C. It says it 
hadnt been confirmed if the units could be restored at that time. But its first response is 
always to restore and only to replace if this isnt possible. 
The principle in these cases is that the insurer should look to indemnify their customer. That 
is to put the customer back in the position they were in, before the damage occurred. I dont 
think Coveas approach to restoring the kitchen is unreasonable. If successful, this puts Mrs 
W back in the position she was in prior to the leak. I have also thought about whether Mrs 
Ws decision to purchase the kitchen was influenced by incorrect information given by the 
contractor. 
Mrs C bought the kitchen toward the end of April 2021. During her call with Coveas call 
handler in March, she was told that the intention was to restore the kitchen. I havent seen 
evidence that this position changed. So, although incorrect information was initially provided, 
I think its fair to say Mrs W was made aware Covea was restoring her kitchen  it hadnt 
agreed to pay for a new one. This was the position when she decided to buy the new 
kitchen. In these circumstances I dont think its fair to ask Covea to pay for the replacement 
kitchen.
Finally, I have considered Mrs Cs view that Covea had promised to appoint a solicitor to 
claim against the neighbour for the £500 excess payment Mrs W paid. I understand the 
neighbour had initially accepted liability for the burst pipe. And information that a claim could 
be made against the neighbour was communicated to Mrs C by Covea. This was later 
confirmed not to be the case as the burst pipe was caused by the weather not negligence on 
the neighbours part. 
The policy terms say:
The first part of any claim which you must pay. We show the excess amounts in your
Schedule. 
Mrs Ws schedule confirms a £500 excess is payable. I dont think its been shown that there 
is reason it shouldnt be paid here. I acknowledge there was some confusion around this 
point initially. But I think Coveas compensation payment fairly acknowledges this.     
Having considered all of this I think that Covea handled Mrs Ws claim fairly in relation to the 
offer to restore the kitchen and decline to pay the cost of a new one. It didnt treat her fairly 
when it provided inaccurate information and for some delays caused by the contractor it 
initially used. But it paid £300 compensation which reasonably acknowledges these points. 
Because of this I cant fairly ask it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2022.
 
Mike WaldronOmbudsman