DRN-2192467
The complaint
Mr A complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
Mr A took out single premium PPI cover to go with three different loans. The first loan was in 
February 1999, the second one in September 1999 and the and third (top up loans) was in 
April 2001. In each case, Mr A was insured against being unable to work or becoming 
unemployed. 
Mr A took out the first policy by way of a postal application and the second and third ones 
over the phone. 
Single premium PPI is a type of insurance that was paid for up front in one single 
payment. So, the cost of the cover is generally added to the overall borrowing taken out. 
Interest is added to both the loan and the PPI part of the loan and paid back monthly.
What happened
Mr A says he was made to think he had to take the PPI on each occasion in order to get the 
loan he wanted. He also says he didnt need it. 
 
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld, but Mr A disagreed and 
asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr As main complaint point is that he was told the PPI was something he needed to buy to 
get each of the loans he wanted. When looking to see if these policies may have been 
mis-sold, Ive kept in mind that these sales took place around twenty years ago. So, based 
on the evidence and information Ive seen, plus what Mr A have told us, Ive looked to see 
what I think is more likely to have happened at the time of each sale.
Some of the sale documentation is no longer available which isnt surprising after so much 
time. Nationwide has given us a copy of the February 1999 postal application but 
unfortunately this is illegible. But Nationwide has been able to give us a good copy of the 
application completed for Mr A as part of his telephone application in in September 1999. On 
this, a box has been ticked to show Mr A wanted to take out PPI. 
Ive also looked carefully at the information Nationwide has given us about the telephone 
sales process used by Nationwide at the time of the September 1999 and April 2001 sales. 
Unfortunately, the actual recordings are no longer available. Thats not surprising after so 
much time. But Ive seen that for Nationwide telephone sales during this period it was usually 
made clear that the loan could be taken with or without the policy. So I think Mr A ought to 
have known when he decided to buy each policy that he had a choice. 
I should also point out that when a loan agreement was sent to Mr A for each of the three 
PPI sales, Mr A would have seen the cover described as being optional. This happened after 
Mr A had agreed to take the cover. Ive seen copies of all three credit agreements. On each 
one Mr As PPI was described as optional credit insurance. Taking into account that Mr A 
had in each sale already made a decision about taking PPI, I think the optional nature of the 
policy shown on each agreement would have been enough for him to recognise that he a 
choice about whether or not to take the cover. Ive also seen nothing that implies the PPI 
cover was something he had to have as part of each loan.
 
Also, the cost of the PPI was set out on each agreement. In each case the cost of the loan, 
the PPI part of the loan, the interest and the total amounts were shown. So, I think Mr A had 
enough information on which to make an informed decision.
Its certainly possible that Nationwide could have done things differently or provided more 
information. BoS says it sent Mr A a policy document for each sale. Whilst I think thats likely 
to have happened, I cant say for sure. But I dont think this would have changed what 
happened.
This is because I think Mr A was eligible for the cover and I dont think hed have been 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policies. He told 
us he had some sickness protection already through his job, of around six months at full 
pay. Whilst I can fully understand why Mr A has told us about his work benefits it doesnt 
necessarily mean he didnt have a use for the policy. The PPI could have paid out a 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months in the event of Mr A losing his job and potentially for 
the full term of his loan if he couldnt work due to accident or sickness. And whilst Ive 
seen Mr A said his family would have helped him out financially if he got into difficulty, 
thats something thats difficult to guarantee being available at any given time. 
If any of the three loans had been settled early, or re-financed, broadly speaking Mr A 
would have received a proportionate sum back in comparison with how long into the loan 
period the loan was were at that particular time. This happened when Mr As February 
1999 loan was re-financed and his September 1999 loan was settled early. 
Ive also carefully considered the points Mr A has made in response to our adjudicators 
finding  including his concerns about the way Nationwide has looked into his complaint. 
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, they do not affect my finding. 
It follows that I dont think these policies were mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. And I dont direct Nationwide 
Building Society to do anything to put any matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021. 
Michael GoldbergOmbudsman