DRN-2272612
The complaint
Mr D complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement with
Advantage Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory quality. He wants Advantage Finance to 
accept his rejection of the car.
What happened
Mr D obtained a second-hand car in June 2019, financed through a hire purchase 
agreement with Advantage Finance.
He complained shortly afterwards that the supplying garage did not have the V5 document 
which meant he couldnt drive the car until hed applied for, and received, a new V5 
document. Advantage Finance agreed that it, and the supplying garage, would meet the first 
hire purchase payment, and this seems to have resolved the complaint.
At the end of July 2019 Mr D complained that, when he arranged for a tyre to be replaced, 
the garage pointed out that the car appeared to have been involved in an accident and had 
been poorly repaired. He returned the car to the supplying garage and it arranged for an 
independent inspection.
The independent engineer concluded that the car had been involved in an accident and that 
the repairs had not been carried out to the required standard. He concluded these were 
largely cosmetic, so was able to conclude that the car was road legal and fit for purpose 
when it was supplied. But he recommended the repairs were done properly, particularly as 
he thought it was likely the headlamp mounting would eventually break due to the 
misalignment of the front bumper and front wings.
The supplying garage offered to carry out the required repairs. But Mr D did not agree and 
wanted to reject the car.
Our investigators conclusions
Our investigator didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. But he 
thought it was reasonable to allow an opportunity for the supplying garage to repair the car.
Mr D didnt agree, and his complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I agreed with our investigators conclusions, and I set out my reasoning in a provisional 
decision to give both parties a final opportunity to provide further information.
I set out my reasons as follows:
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Quality of the car
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term 
that the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I 
would have to be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a 
breach of contract has taken place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are 
its age when it was supplied, how much mileage the car covered since it was 
supplied and how long after supply the fault materialised.
The car was around six years old when it was supplied in June 2019 and its mileage 
was around 72,000 miles.
The independent reports findings were that:
The front of the vehicle was assessed, and it was evident that there was noticeable 
misalignment to the bonnet and both front wings. Also, the front bumper was 
misaligned in areas in comparison from the left side of the vehicle to the right side.
The passenger side headlamp plastic top mount was cracked in areas along with part 
of the headlamp retainer missing.
The front grille plastic mounting was cracked in areas along with the plastic engine 
under tray being retained to the bumper by plastic cable ties.
A paint depth gauge was used which indicated the passenger side front wing had 
been repaired with a noticeable paint thickness of approximately 3500 microns. Also 
repainting was evident to areas of the front bumper where sanding lines/marks were 
evident.
There was no evidence of structural repairs/damage when the front chassis rails and 
inner wings were observed.
And it concluded that the current defects seen are due to substandard repair 
methods used.
I find the car has been previously repaired and that the repairs were not carried out to 
a satisfactory standard. I am mindful that the independent engineer concluded that 
. The vehicle was road legal and fit for purpose when it was supplied. I agree it 
was road legal. But I think the repairs were carried out to such a poor standard that it 
was only a matter of time before they failed. For this reason I think, on balance, that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
It follows that Advantage Finance is responsible for putting this right. But it doesnt 
automatically follow that it should accept Mr Ds rejection of the car. Like our 
investigator, I havent seen evidence to show that Mr D requested rejection within 30 
days of obtaining the car. Mr D didnt notice the issues hes complaining about until 
they were pointed out to him when the car needed a tyre change. So it seems the car 
was driveable and it didnt break down. For these reasons I think its fair and 
reasonable that Advantage Finance is given the opportunity to repair the car  to 
make good the sub-standard repairs.
Mr D says the engineers inspection only lasted a few minutes and that he didnt 
open the bonnet. Mr D says there is also damage to a grill inside the bonnet and he 
has provided some photographs. Its difficult to see from the photographs exactly 
what damage there is, but there certainly seems to be some damage which supports what Mr D is saying  although Im not persuaded that the engineers failure to 
inspect under the bonnet calls into question conclusions of the report.
In concluding that Advantage Finance should make good the sub-standard repairs, I 
would expect it to pay for those listed in the report, together with repairs to damage 
under the bonnet and, as noted in the independent report, any further damage which 
becomes evident when the front bumper is removed.
I understand why Mr D does not want to accept this offer. And I will explain in a bit 
more detail later why I think it is a fair outcome. But first I need to consider whether 
the car was misrepresented to him when it was sold and whether this makes a 
difference to my overall conclusion.
Misrepresentation of the car
The relevant law also says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been 
misrepresented to Mr D. If it was, and if I thought Mr D would not have proceeded 
with the deal if hed been aware of the true facts, then I would think Advantage 
Finance was responsible and Id ask it to take some further action.
I asked Advantage Finance to find out a bit more about what the supplying garage 
knew about the cars history and whether the salesperson told Mr D the car had been 
in an accident. But Advantage Finance told us that it could not contact the supplying 
garage and it appears it may no longer be trading.
Its not clear whether the supplying garage was aware that the car had previously 
been involved in an accident. I can see that the car failed an MOT whilst it was in the 
garages possession and, amongst other things, the garage needed to replace a front 
tyre. It was the later replacement of a tyre by a third-party garage that led to Mr D 
discovering the poor state of repair. So, on balance, I would have thought it likely that 
the supplying garage would have noticed the accident repairs when it changed the 
tyre. So Ive thought about whether it was likely Mr D was told about the previous 
accident and I dont think he was. Ive no reason to doubt what he says about first 
being made aware of this around a month after the car was supplied.
I now need to think about whether the failure to tell Mr D that the car had been in an 
accident would have made a difference to him. In other words, whether I think Mr D 
would have gone ahead with the hire purchase agreement. Mr D has made it clear 
that hes very upset that he wasnt told. But hes also said that, if he had been told, 
its possible he would have purchased the car anyway. Ive considered this very 
carefully. Ive not been made aware of any particular reason why Mr D would not 
have been comfortable driving a car that had previously been in an accident. And the 
findings of the independent report say that the damage was cosmetic and that there 
was no evidence that the structure of the car had been affected. On balance, I dont 
think being told the car had been in an accident would have changed his decision.
And I set out how I thought the business should put things right. I said:
As outlined above, I think Advantage Finance should pay for the repairs to be done 
properly and I think that this is the proportionate and fair resolution in the 
circumstances. Mr D feels very strongly that he should have been told that the car 
had been in an accident. And Ive no doubt how disappointed he was when the 
evidence, and the poor repairs, were pointed out to him. But I have to be fair to both 
parties and thats why I think Advantage Finance should be given the opportunity to 
repair the car.The independent report set out the repairs which are likely to be required. It also said 
further damage may be evident when the front bumper is removed. And Mr D has 
provided photographs showing some additional damage. I would expect Advantage 
Finance to pay for all repairs required to put right the previous repairs and the 
damage from the accident.
As it seems likely that the supplying garage is no longer trading, Advantage Finance 
should let me know, in response to this provisional decision, whether it will agree to 
pay for repairs to be carried out by an approved garage. I would expect these repairs 
to be carried out as soon as possible.
Advantage Finance accepted my provisional decision but asked that Mr D provide three 
separate quotes for the repairs for comparison purposes. It said the repairs could adequately 
be carried out by a third-party bodywork specialist. It did not agree to cover the cost of the 
repairs being carried out by a main dealer, as this would be classed as betterment. It also 
let us know that the car had recently passed an MOT with no advisories.
Mr D said he agreed that the car could be repaired but that this needs to be carried out by an 
expert from the cars manufacturer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have agreed that the car should be repaired. The only point of dispute seems to 
be how this should be carried out. 
Advantage Finance is responsible for supplying a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality, so it 
is responsible for putting that right. I dont agree that repairs and parts supplied by an 
approved garage puts Mr D in a better position that he would have been in if the car had 
been supplied in a satisfactory condition. But I do agree Advantage Finance shouldnt pay 
more than is reasonable. I accept its perfectly possible for the repairs to be carried out to a 
satisfactory standard by a garage which isnt necessarily one of the manufacturers garages. 
Equally, Mr D has already been put to some inconvenience and I dont think its fair for him 
to have to spend time arranging quotes from three different garages. 
It is for Advantage Finance to arrange for the repairs to be carried out within a reasonable 
period of time and with the minimum amount of inconvenience to Mr D. So it can either 
agree to repairs once it has been provided with a quote from Mr Ds garage of choice, or it 
can make the arrangements itself.
Putting things right
Advantage Finance should pay for all repairs required to put right the previous repairs and 
the damage from the accident. This includes the items listed in the independent report and 
any further damage which becomes evident when the front bumper is removed.
The repairs should be carried out as soon as possible and at minimum inconvenience to 
Mr D.
My final decisionMy final decision is that Advantage Finance Ltd should pay for repairs to the car as outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman