DRN-1460788
The complaint
Mr C complained because Nationwide Building Society refused to refund him for a 
withdrawal which he said he didnt make.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr C and his wife were on holiday abroad. Their car broke down, and Mr C 
needed to pay €2,000 in cash to get it repaired. Mr Cs daily cash withdrawal limit was €500. 
He withdrew €200 about 1 pm on 11 June, and €500 around 9 am on 12 June.
The next day, 13 June, Mr C and a friend went to an ATM at around midday. Ill call this 
place location A. His friend successfully made a withdrawal. Mr C said that he then put his 
card in, and entered his PIN, but the screen then went black, as if there was a power cut. His 
card was returned. A few minutes later, the machine came back to life, so Mr C put his card 
in again. He said he didnt even get to enter his PIN before the screen went black again. This 
time, the machine retained Mr Cs card.
Mr C said he asked the banks adviser for help, and she retrieved his card for him. But Mr C 
decided hed go to a different machine for his cash, because he no longer trusted that 
machine.
At around 8 am on 14 June, Mr C made another withdrawal for €500 at a different location. 
At around 9.15 am on 17 June he made a €200 withdrawal at another different location.
When Mr C got home he checked his statement. It included a debit dated 13 June 
representing his 12 June withdrawal, which had been converted to £447.51 sterling.
There were then four transactions dated 14 June.
Three of these were for location A, and although dated 14 June, theyd taken place on 13 
June:
a credit for £445.86 Correction of cash withdrawal;
a debit for £446.09; and
another debit for £446.09.
 
The fourth was a debit representing his 14 June withdrawal at 8am, which had been 
converted to for £446.09 sterling.
Mr C didnt agree with the two debits and one credit for location A, where hed tried to use 
the cash machine around midday on 13 June. He complained to Nationwide on 2 July. He 
said that after the problems with the cash machine, he hadnt actually received €500 from 
that location.
Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It initially credited Mr Cs account, but warned 
him that it had no control over the final decision of the dispute, because this would be made by the bank abroad. And the bank abroad sent evidence to show that the cash machine in 
question had balanced on 13 June, and that the money had been paid out. Nationwide sent 
a copy to Mr C, and took back the temporary credit.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said he thought Nationwide had 
done what it could, but it was the bank abroad which was at fault. 
The investigator told Mr C that the case would have to be against Nationwide, as its 
responsible for the balance on Mr Cs account. But she said that the cash machine records 
showed that €500 had been dispensed on 13 June, which Mr C had disputed.
The investigator also pointed out that, including the disputed €500 withdrawal, Mr C had 
withdrawn €1,900 between 12 and 18 June. Hed said hed withdrawn cash to pay for a 
€2,000 car repair. Without the disputed €500 withdrawal, that would only have been €1,400 
in total. The investigator accepted that Mr C had now said hed got some money from his 
wife. But she thought that after several attempts to withdraw money at location A, hed 
eventually been successful in withdrawing €500.
Mr C didnt agree. He said that his complaint wasnt against Nationwide, but the bank 
abroad. He disagreed about the location of the withdrawal listed for 14 June, which hadnt 
been at location A. He repeated that the bank employee had retrieved Mr Cs card from the 
cash machine. And he pointed to a section of the cash machine log which Nationwide had 
sent to him, because he said this showed a €500 cash difference. 
Mr C also sent a supporting letter from the friend whod been with him. This confirmed what 
Mr C had said. It also said that theyd asked the bank assistant if the transaction had been 
completed, and shed said she didnt know.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Which bank Mr C is complaining about
Mr C has said that he believes Nationwide did what it could, and his complaint is against the 
bank abroad. But Mr C has no direct relationship with the cash machine owner / operator 
which would be covered by the regulations relevant to this service. Mr C can choose to 
pursue some form of action against the cash machine provider abroad if he wishes. But that 
side of things isnt something this service can consider.
Mr Cs relationship is with Nationwide, because Nationwide holds his money. And as he has 
that relationship, this service would expect it to do everything it can to look into the matter on 
behalf of its customer, and satisfy itself whether or not the money was likely to have been 
dispensed.  So in this decision Ive looked at whether or not Nationwide properly considered 
Mr Cs complaint.
Cash machine logs
The four transactions listed which appear on Mr Cs statement for 14 June are important but 
confusing. For example, the first item of the four dated 14 June is the credit, before the 
subsequent debit which its intended to reverse. Also, because of currency exchange 
fluctuations the credit is for a slightly different amount from the original debit, even though 
the debit and credit took place within a very short period.  But the key evidence is the record from the cash machine log. This shows that Mr Cs card 
was first put into the machine at 11:59 on 13 June. There are then machine records every 
few seconds until 12:06:17, which records money was picked up. 
So this log shows that €500 was dispensed to Mr C at 12:06. But for completeness Ive also 
looked at the record of the machines daily balance. Mr C has argued that a heading Notes 
rejected... 500 means that there was a cash difference and the machine didnt balance. But 
the next line says Anomalies... 0 followed by a heading No difference amount registered. 
The anomalies and this statement show the machine did balance that day. So I dont agree 
that Notes rejected was Mr Cs disputed €500. A cash surplus in the machine would have 
shown as an anomaly, and thered have been a different final heading.
The visit to the branch
Its clear that Mr C did have trouble with the machine, and the computer records from the 
machine include the refund and a cancellation. But the records show the machine was in 
continual activity every few seconds. Theres no gap of, say, a few minutes when the 
machine might have been out of service while Mr C consulted a branch assistant about 
retrieving his card. 
Ive also noted that the supporting letter, which Mr C sent us from his friend, says that they 
asked the bank employee whether the transaction had been completed, and she said she 
didnt know. These events happened on 13 June. In view of the banks employees reply, Id 
have expected Mr C to have checked his balance and got in touch with Nationwide to 
dispute the transaction while he was still abroad. Instead, he didnt get in touch to dispute 
the €500 withdrawal until 2 July.
Daily limits
Mr C has also queried the fact that more than €500 shows on his account statement for 14 
June 2019, when his daily limit was €500. But the dates on the statements are confusing. 
They dont always show the date when the transactions took place abroad. Sometimes the 
dates refer to transactions the day before, but sometimes theyre for the actual day, such as 
the last of the four transactions listed. So Ive checked the actual time, place and date on all 
transactions.  
The first three items of the transactions shown on Mr Cs statement for 14 June took place in 
location A, around midday on 13 June.  I agree with Mr C when he says the last transaction 
on the statement, which shows on the statement as 14 June, actually took place at another 
location around 8 am.  But there was only one €500 withdrawal which was debited to Mr Cs 
account on 13 June. That was the disputed transaction at location A. So there wasnt any 
breach of the rule that Mr C could only withdraw €500 a day.
 
 
 
 
 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman