DRN-2041046
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc took two credit card payments in August 2019. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
- All parties agree that HSBC acted in error when its call handler advised the 
13 August 2019 payment wouldnt be taken after Mr G made a manual payment of 
£491.90 on 8 August 2019. HSBC incorrectly took two payments from Mr G in August 
2019. 
- Mr G has explained that HSBCs error meant he had to juggle the family finances 
until he was able to obtain a refund. I can see from Mr Gs bank statements that he 
wasnt able to use his account for around a week while he was waiting for the refund 
to be applied. But Mr G has confirmed he was able to make alternative arrangements 
with the assistance of his wife and credit card. Ive taken everything that Mr G has 
told us about the impact of HSBCs error into account when considering how to 
resolve his complaint.
- In response to Mr Gs complaint, HSBC made sure no adverse information was 
reported to the credit reference agencies, removed interest and charges and offered 
to refund the remaining £287.01 to the current account. HSBC also offered to pay 
Mr G £100 in recognition of the inconvenience caused. I understand that the situation 
occurred during a difficult time and that Mr G had to make alternative arrangements. 
But I think HSBCs offer of £100 is reasonable and fairly reflects the impact of its 
error on Mr G.
- Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but as Im satisfied HSBC has made a fair offer to 
resolve his complaint, Im not telling it to increase its offer or take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because HSBC UK Bank Plc has already 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
