DRN-2834864
The complaint
Mrs G complains as executor of the estate of the late Mr G. She complains that UBS AG 
trading as UBS Wealth Management (UBS) delayed the closure of Mr Gs investment 
account.
What happened
Mr G sadly passed away in August 2019. On 7 September 2019 UBS received 
documentation from a representative of the estate which included a copy of Mr Gs death 
certificate. UBS wrote back on 12 September 2019 to confirm receipt and requested 
instructions as well as a call to discuss how best to proceed.
On 16 September 2019 a call took place with the representative about the account closure. It 
was agreed the representative would call again the following week with Mrs G. UBS then 
sent a letter on 19 September 2019 listing what was needed to close the account. Amongst 
other things, a grant of probate and letter of instruction was requested.
On 20 September 2019 Mrs Gs solicitors sent UBS another copy of Mr Gs death certificate. 
UBS asked for confirmation of authority from the solicitors on 4 October 2019 along with the 
other information still required. UBS received the solicitors authority on 25 October 2019 but 
not the grant of probate or letter of instruction.
The grant of probate was sent to UBS on 3 February 2020 and received on                         
10 February 2020. Mrs G sent her written instructions to UBS on 20 February 2020, and this 
was received on 28 February 2020. Before receipt, Mr M on behalf of Mrs G called UBS on          
27 February and explained the written instruction had been posted. As an exception UBS 
accepted Mrs Gs verbal instruction and liquidated the assets.
Mrs G complained. She felt UBS had delayed the closure of the account unnecessarily, 
leading to an estimated loss of roughly £25,000. She felt that as UBS had eventually taken 
her instruction over the phone, they shouldve done so sooner.
UBS didnt agree, they explained they were under no obligation to take verbal instruction and 
did so as an exception to assist Mrs G. They felt theyd followed their procedures correctly 
and hadnt delayed matters.
Mrs G remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service, with Mr M acting as her 
representative. Our investigator felt UBS had been reasonable in their requests and hadnt 
caused delays. Mrs G disagreed, she felt their acceptance of verbal instruction indicated 
UBS knew theyd delayed matters. She asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered whether UBS caused any unnecessary delays in closing the account. Ive 
also thought about whether UBS made their requirements known in a timely manner. Mrs G 
understandably found the process of closing the account frustrating and time consuming  
but Id need to be satisfied UBS caused unnecessary or unreasonable delays to recommend 
they do any more.
UBS received Mr Gs death certificate on 7 September 2019, responded on 12 September 
and spoke with Mr H on 16 September. UBS then sent a list of their requirements on          
19 September 2019. Amongst other requirements, this letter clearly stated the need for the 
grant of probate and a letter of instruction. Im satisfied UBS made their requirements known 
early in the process and that they did so without delay.
Grant of probate
UBS had a responsibility to ensure the investment account was transferred correctly. 
Requesting a grant of probate was the only way for UBS to ensure there were no other 
beneficiaries to the estate who may have a claim, so its understandable they asked for it.
The closure of the account couldnt have happened any earlier than when UBS received the 
grant of probate. As Im satisfied UBS made the requirement of the grant of probate clear 
early on, I dont think it would be fair to hold them responsible for any delays that happened 
before 10 February 2020.
Written instruction
Unfortunately, when the grant of probate was received there was still no written instruction. 
Mr G had directed UBS to only accept instruction by post, which meant they were limited in 
how they should accept instructions for the account. UBS required signed instructions to 
ensure they were fulfilling the correct orders for the correct person. Waiving the need for this 
at any point would leave UBS open to risk of dispute over their actions if it was later found 
that Mrs G hadnt made the request.
I think its understandable UBS required written instruction. Mrs G feels the instruction form 
eventually sent by UBS was rushed, suggesting this requirement was an afterthought. But 
Mrs G couldve provided any written letter of instruction at any time after it was requested. 
As this was requested as early as 19 September 2019, I dont think it would be fair to say 
UBS were responsible for any delay in this document being produced.
Mrs G feels strongly that UBS took too long to process post, but Im not convinced they ever 
took an unreasonable amount of time to act on the documents they received. It wouldve 
been fair for UBS to wait until receipt of Mrs Gs written instruction to begin closure of the 
account. 
UBS did however make an exception and waived this requirement when they spoke to      
Mrs Gs representative on 27 February 2020. Itd been over a week since Mrs G sent her 
instruction and so they decided to move ahead before the written instruction arrived. 
Mrs G is unhappy that UBS didnt waive the requirement sooner. But UBS were under no 
obligation to do so and I can see they accepted additional risk to accommodate Mrs Gs 
request. So, I cant say it was unfair of UBS to not waive the requirement sooner, particularly 
as it was the conversation that same day which influenced their decision. 
I appreciate its very disappointing for Mrs G that the value of the investment had fallen from 
its peak in January 2020. And I dont doubt that such a long period of time for this process to complete must have added difficulty to an already upsetting time. But for the reasons Ive 
explained I cant say that UBS caused any unreasonable delays or acted unfairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman