DRN-3629990
The complaint
Mr T has complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled a 
claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T had an escape of water at his home. So, he contacted RSA to make a claim. RSA 
assessed the damage and the works required. RSA also told Mr T its contractors had a 
backlog of work so said if he didnt want to wait for its contractors, it could pay him a cash 
settlement. 
Drying commenced at the property. RSA asked Mr T to provide quotes for the work to be 
carried out by his own contractors. Mr T said he wanted RSA to carry out the work. RSA said 
there was a 10-12 week lead time before works could start. It said it might be quicker for Mr 
T to find his own contractor. Mr T said he wanted to use RSAs contractors.
The drying continued and further works were identified at the property, such as removing 
plaster and kitchen units. RSA agreed to move some of Mr Ts items to storage. Mr T 
contacted RSA because he was concerned that the units were being removed and items 
moved to storage when he had no indication of when the works would start. RSA said it 
would consider paying a disturbance allowance. Mr T asked RSA to backdate the 
disturbance allowance to cover the period from when he lost full use of his kitchen. Mr T also 
complained about the handling of his claim and asked for confirmation of when works could 
start.
Mr Ts property was then confirmed to be dry and it was agreed when reinstatement works 
could start. However, the contractors didnt arrive on the agreed date or the day after, so Mr 
T asked for new contractors to be appointed. RSA said the contractor had been unwell and 
some of the materials had also been damaged in a storm. Mr T asked for a cash settlement 
so he could arrange for the works be carried out. RSA paid a cash settlement.
RSA didnt reply to Mr Ts complaint. Our service contacted RSA about this and then 
considered the complaint. When our investigator looked at the complaint, she didnt uphold 
it. She said Mr T had been kept informed about timescales, including lead times for 
contractors. She also said RSA had acted reasonably by agreeing to pay a disturbance 
allowance for additional costs incurred while the reinstatement works were carried out, but it 
didnt need to backdate this.
As Mr T didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr T was concerned about the progress of his claim. A key issue for the claim seemed to be 
the lead times for when a contractor would be able to start the works. RSA told Mr T about 
this and offered to cash settle the claim. So, I think RSA explained the position and gave Mr 
T a choice about how to proceed. Mr T said he wanted RSA to carry out the work because 
he didnt know any contractors.
While the property was still drying, I can see that Mr T was concerned to ensure that the 
claim progressed and that he wanted to know when the works would start. He didnt always 
get the updates in the timescales he expected and on one occasion he had expected a 
phone call, but received a response by email. However, from what Ive seen Mr T was 
provided with updates that explained the current position on the claim and in reasonable 
timescales. RSA also restated the lead time for its contractors and the option of a cash 
settlement. Looking at RSAs records, I can also see that RSA continued to review the claim 
progress and next steps and that it discussed it internally, including with contractors. 
Im also aware that when the works were due to start, the contractor didnt arrive. When Mr T 
followed up on this, he was told the contractor was unwell and that some materials had been 
damaged by a storm. Mr T then said he had lost confidence in the contractor and wanted a 
new one to be appointed. Following this, Mr T told RSA he wanted a cash settlement so he 
could arrange the works himself, which RSA then arranged. I can understand that, having 
waited for the works to start, Mr T was concerned that they didnt then start as expected. I 
also think RSA should have ensured Mr T was told promptly if a contractor wasnt able to 
attend. But, overall, I think RSA did take steps to progress the claim and it made it clear 
there would be a delay in any works starting if Mr T wanted to use its contractors.
Mr T also wanted to be paid a backdated disturbance allowance. A disturbance allowance is 
designed to cover additional costs incurred as a result of someone not having access to 
things like their cooking facilities. RSA offered Mr T a disturbance allowance for additional 
costs because of the damage to the kitchen. The claim then had to be passed to another 
team. After this had happened, RSA confirmed it would pay a disturbance allowance when 
the reinstatement works were carried out. I think that was reasonable. Im aware that Mr Ts 
home was disrupted from the time the claim started. But the allowance isnt designed to 
cover general disruption as part of a claim and I havent seen anything that persuades me 
that the disturbance allowance should be backdated.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint. I can understand Mr Ts 
strong views about his claim, particularly as the damage affected his living circumstances. 
However, RSA explained the lead times for contractors to start the work and offered Mr T the 
option of a cash settlement. It also continued to progress the claim. Im also not persuaded 
that the disturbance allowance needed to be backdated.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman