DRN-2223788
The complaint
Mr O and Mrs G, trading as R complain that Society of Lloyds unfairly declined a claim 
under their business protection insurance policy
What happened
R has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy. Mr O and Mrs G made a claim 
on that policy to cover Rs losses arising out of it closing from 23 March 2020 due to the 
national government-imposed lockdown intended to control the spread of Covid 19.
Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) declined the claim because it said R didnt have cover for the 
losses it was claiming for. Mr O and Mrs G didnt agree. They said the closure had a 
considerable financial impact on R and the policy should provide cover because there was a 
case of Covid-19 very close to the insured premises. They also acknowledge that, whilst 
Covid-19 doesnt appear on the illnesses listed in their policy, cover should be extended 
because the policy was drafted in advance of the disease being known and it would be unfair 
not to take that into account. 
Our investigator considered Rs complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
there was no cover available under the policy for the difficult situation R found itself in. Mr O 
and Mrs G dont agree so the matter has been put to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on R. But for the 
same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
The type of cover R is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance.  There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy R took out. As such Ive considered every aspect of 
the policy R holds with Lloyds to determine whether there are any sections that would 
require Lloyds to meet the claim like the one R is making. 
Mr O and Mrs G have told us that R closed its doors on 23 March 2020 due to the 
government-imposed lockdown. The nature of Rs business was such that it wouldnt have 
been allowed to stay open after this time.
The policy provides cover for several things, including notifiable disease and denial of 
access. Ive considered each of them below.
Notifiable disease
The government-imposed lockdown was intended to control the Covid 19 pandemic. 
Because of this, the most likely sections of the policy that would respond is the extension in 
relation to notifiable disease. That section is set out below. 
2. Notifiable disease, vermin pests and defective sanitation, murder or suicide
We will indemnify you in respect of damage as defined in this section directly 
resulting from interruption of or interference with the business during the indemnity 
period in consequence of the following contingencies:
-any occurrence of a notifiable disease in the area.
-any discovery of an organism likely to result in the occurrence of a notifiable 
disease at the hotel."
Notifiable Disease is defined as:
An illness sustained by any person caused by:
-any of the following human infectious or human contagious diseases:
Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps, 
Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever, 
Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough, 
Yellow Fever.
-any discharge release or escape of legionella from water tanks, water systems, air-
conditioning plants, cooling towers and the like from any hotel located in Scotland.
an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to 
them.
Having considered the list of illnesses set out, Im not persuaded this section of the policy 
provides R with cover in the current circumstances as Covid-19 isnt one of the specified 
illnesses. 
When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something Lloyds might have 
known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes anything. 
Thats because there are other policies that do provide cover for the present pandemic. 
These tend to be where they cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and updated on 
a Government defined list. However, Rs policy sets out a list of the illnesses which are 
covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover 
for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which might emerge.  I think the purpose and 
effect of the policy is to provide cover in the event of these particular illnesses. There are 
many potential illnesses that the policy does not cover, including SARS (another type of 
Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all 
illnesses that fall outside of the defined list set out above. 
And whilst I appreciate Mr O and Mrs G have provided evidence to show there was a case of 
Covid-19 very close to the insured premises, and therefore in the area, this doesnt make 
any difference to my decision because it doesnt fall into the policys definition of notifiable 
disease which is a requirement for that aspect of the policy to take effect. 
Ive also given thought to whether Covid 19 might fall under Plague which is one of the 
illnesses specified in the policy terms, but I dont think it does. Whilst the policy does not 
define what Plague is, it does have a specific medical classification and is an infectious 
disease in its own right caused by a particular bacterium. Plague appears as a specified 
disease in the Governments list of notifiable diseases and it is caused by the bacteria Yersinia Pestis. There are three different types of Plague - bubonic, septicaemic and 
pneumonic. In contrast Covid-19 is a viral infection. 
Having considered the position carefully I am satisfied that the capitalised term Plague used 
in the policy was intended to only cover the recognised medical illness Plague. Finally, whilst 
I appreciate its possible that Plague could be interpreted on its widest dictionary definition 
as an infectious disease, affliction or pestilence, I think that doing so would render the list 
that Lloyds has set out, redundant. Thats because it would cover most of the specified 
illnesses set out within it, so it would be pointless to list them as Lloyds has. 
 
Overall the fact that Plague is listed separately and that Covid 19 is different in its make up 
and nature to Plague is, in my view, enough for me to determine that Covid 19 does not fall 
within the term Plague in the policy and it wouldnt be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances to treat the policy as if it did. 
Denial of access
Ive also thought denial of access section of cover and I dont think it applies. This section 
only applies where there has been loss resulting from damage defined as 
interference with the business following loss or destruction or damage to the hotel as a 
result of:
-a peril insured against under Section two (Contents); or glass breakage arising under 
Section two (Contents)
The contents damage section notes a number of events such as fire and theft, but nothing in 
those sections extend to damage caused to the business itself by way of a specified illness 
or disease such as Covid-19, or even a government-imposed act. Rather they refer to 
physical damage in different shapes and forms. And because Covid-19 doesnt fall into the 
definition of damage, it cant apply in these circumstances. 
Overall and for the reasons set out above, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly by turning down 
Rs claim for cover. I know this decision will be disappointing for Mr O and Mrs G but I hope 
Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why Rs policy doesnt offer cover in the 
circumstances of its claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Rs complaint against Society of Lloyds. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman