DRN-2437377
The complaint
Miss Ns unhappy Calpe Insurance Company Limited have turned down her claim on her 
motor insurance policy  and have avoided the policy as well.
A representative has been used to help bring this complaint, but for simplicity Ill just refer to 
Miss N in this decision.
 
What happened
In November 2020 I issued my provisional decision, setting out the what had happened in 
the complaint, and my proposed outcome to resolve it:
In April 2019 Miss Ns car was unfortunately stolen from her property. The police recovered it 
sometime later, and after inspection Calpe offered a settlement figure of around £20,000. 
But Calpe also said, after completing further investigations following the offer, that Miss Ns 
car had been modified. They explained Miss N hadnt declared this when taking out the 
insurance in 2015, so avoided (cancelled) her policy.
After receiving the letter about cancelling her policy Miss N complained to Calpe. She said 
shed always paid her premiums over the last four years and thought when she gave over 
her vehicle registration itd come up with the make and model of her car. She said she now 
knew her type of car had been modified  but only because Calpe told her about this while 
cancelling her insurance. She also complained about not being given a courtesy car. And 
she also said English wasnt her first language  but she didnt explain this point further.
In July 2019 Calpe responded to Miss Ns complaint. They said she hadnt told her broker 
about the modifications  which were worth around £20,000. And had she done so, then 
they wouldnt have insured her. Because of this, theyve said her failure to say the car was 
modified when she was taking out the insurance was a deliberate or reckless act. This 
means under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) 
they have cancelled her policy and retained her premium. They said any excess is still due.
Unhappy with this Miss N asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so, and 
initially thought Miss N seemed to understand the questions asked, and because of that felt 
she should have known to disclose the modifications. As a result of that, he felt Calpe had 
acted fairly by cancelling her policy and keeping the premiums.
Miss N didnt agree though. She said she didnt understand the car had been modified when 
she bought it. And when she bought the car in April / May 2015, it was subsequently 
damaged, and repaired by Calpe in August 2015  so she questioned why this wasnt picked 
up then?
Having considered these points, and gathered some further information, our investigator felt 
it was appropriate to uphold the complaint. He felt it was reasonable for Calpe to have 
realised when completing substantial repairs in August 2015 that the car was modified. 
Because of these points he felt Calpe should pay the claim and refund any premium on a 
pro-rata basis.
Calpe though didnt agree with this, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might help if I explain that when taking out an insurance policy the consumer is required to 
take reasonable care to answer an insurers question to the best of their knowledge. If the 
consumer doesn't do so thats known in the insurance industry as a qualifying 
misrepresentation. And theres some helpful legislation, CIDRA that I mentioned above, 
which sets out what insurers may consider to be a misrepresentation and what they may do 
when a policyholder has made one.
CIDRA says that where a consumer has carelessly, or deliberately or recklessly made a 
misrepresentation then the insurer may cancel the policy and refuse to pay claims against it. 
So, in the normal order of things Id need to decide whether I think Miss N did make a 
misrepresentation, and if so, whether it was careless, or deliberate or reckless. If it was 
careless, then Calpe would need to repay the relevant premiums, and if it was deliberate or 
reckless then Calpe would most likely be acting fairly by keeping the premiums.
But, I also need to factor in that Calpe paid out on a claim in August 2015, and the 
implications of this.
Ive looked at the invoice produced in August 2015. This shows around £18,000 worth of 
work was done following Miss Ns car being vandalised  so a very substantial repair. It 
shows that work was needed to be done to each part on the outside of the car. And, 
crucially, this invoice spells out the type of parts needed in the first line of the new parts that 
have been added to the car. These parts were modified parts  and its clear from the 
information recorded by Calpes approved repairer theyre modified parts. In addition, photos 
have been provided by the repairer to Calpe  and its very clear this car has been modified 
from the pictures provided.
This really was Calpes opportunity to raise their concerns about what Miss N had told them 
when taking out the policy. By Calpe paying out on the claim, theyve affirmed the contract. 
This means theres no reason for Miss N to have realised she needed to declare this in later 
policy renewals  and this fits in with her understanding the car wasnt modified.
Because of that, I dont think Calpes concerns about CIDRA are relevant  Miss N 
continued to provide the same information year after year. And given Calpe had previously 
paid out on a claim, theres no reason for her to have thought she needed to provide any 
new information about her car itself.
So, I think Calpe need to pay out on the claim she made in 2019  because if theyd told her 
earlier they werent going to insure her then shed most likely have taken out insurance with 
someone who would. I also think Calpe need to add 8% interest to this, because this should 
have been paid previously, and Miss N has since bought a new car. And shes been without 
the money owed since the date of the claim.
Calpe deemed the car a total loss when initially reviewing it  and Ive seen evidence to 
show this is fair from the engineers reports. This means in paying out on the claim Im 
satisfied its fair for Calpe to keep all the premiums  on the basis theyve fulfilled the 
insurance contract by paying out for the total loss of the car. Theyre also entitled to ask 
Miss N to pay the original excess  as this would always be payable when a claim is made. The policy is currently showing as cancelled but I dont think this is fair on Miss N because 
Calpe affirmed the contract. So, theyll need to correct this, and I think its appropriate for 
Calpe to refund any difference in premiums Miss N has experienced as a result of this if she 
can produce evidence. I might suggest Miss N speaks to her insurers to see if the 
cancellation being revoked means theyre prepared to refund her any monies first.
In addition, I think its appropriate for Calpe to pay Miss N some compensation. As Calpe 
affirmed the contract in 2015 it should have settled the claim in 2019 without undue delay. 
Instead Miss N has experienced 18 months of waiting to know what was going to happen. 
Shes had the worry of not knowing whether she was going to be paid out for her car, and 
the stress of dealing with all these issues. Because of that, I think £250 is a fair amount.
Based on the information Ive got, it seems that Miss N did make an error in 2015 when she 
didnt explain her car was modified even though I dont think this was intentional  which 
Calpe and their investigators agree with. But, as Calpe have since affirmed the contract, I 
dont think itd be appropriate for them to take any further action in relation to this mistake.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss N said she accepted the decision, and also asked for the exact amount shed receive. 
Calpe didnt reply by the deadline.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The amount Miss N will receive will depend on a number of factors  so I cant give her an 
exact figure. But, Id usually expect Calpe to provide a breakdown once theyd completed the 
settlement.
As Calpe didnt reply by the deadline, and Miss N accepted the decision, Ive seen no reason 
to change the outcome I previously reached and still uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
 In order to put things right for Miss N Calpe need to:
1. Calculate the total loss amount they owe Miss N for the 2019 claim  Calpe should 
deduct the excess from this figure
2. Pay 8% interest on the figure calculated in point 1 from the date it should originally 
have been paid, to the date of settlement*
3. Revoke the cancellation of Miss Ns policy, and mark internal and external databases 
accordingly
4. Upon receiving appropriate evidence from Miss Ns previous insurers, repay any 
additional costs Miss N has paid because of the cancellation being incorrectly applied
5. Pay 8% interest from the date Miss N made those payments to other insurers, to the 
date of settlement  if evidence has been provided for point 4 above*
6. Pay Miss N £250 compensation
*HM Revenue and Customers requires Calpe to deduct tax from the interest payment
referred to above. Calpe must give Miss N a certificate showing how much tax theyve
deducted if she asks them for one. My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint, and order Calpe Insurance Company Limited to carry out 
the actions Ive set out in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman