DRN-4038690
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc reneged on its promise to allow him to port his
interest only mortgage after he sold his house.
What happened
In 2021, Mr H had approximately £400,000 outstanding on his interest only mortgage with
Santander. He was some way through the term of a fixed interest rate product which meant
he would pay approximately £20,000 as an early repayment charge (ERC) if he redeemed
the mortgage. But he wanted to move home, so discussed his plans with Santander.
Mr H says he had a number of telephone conversations with Santander to ensure hed retain
his mortgage when he sold his house. He says, each time, he was told he would merely be
porting his current mortgage to the new property, and he only had to notify Santander by
phone once hed selected a new property. So, he sold his house on 30 August 2022 and
moved into rented accommodation while he looked for a new home  on the understanding
that he had 90 days to do so. But, when Mr H found a new property, he says Santander told
him hed need to make a full mortgage application before it would make a mortgage offer.
Mr H says he was never told the porting of his mortgage would be subject to a full
application and credit check. He says hes never missed a payment on his mortgage, and
nothing has changed so he would easily be able to maintain the payments on the ported
mortgage. Now hes had to pay the ERC and has lost his fixed rate of 1.99%. So, Mr H 
complained to Santander.
In its response letter dated 4 August 2022, Santander said it hadnt made a mistake and it
had made Mr H aware of the process and the application required. It said the process was
explained to Mr H in a call on 12 October 2021, and the representative offered to transfer
Mr H to Santanders applications team to discuss the matter in further detail. But Mr H said
hed call back another time. At Mr Hs request, Santander reviewed its response to his
complaint twice  on 10 November 2022 and 6 December 2022  but stood by its initial
findings both times.
Dissatisfied with Santanders response, Mr H asked us to consider his complaint. Our
investigator also didnt think Santander had done anything wrong. She explained that shed
listened to recordings of calls between Mr H and Santander  three in total. She noted from
the first two calls that Mr H was informed he would need to speak to a specialist team for full
details of what was required for him to port his mortgage.
During the third call  when Mr H disclosed the specifics of his plans  Santander explained
that he wouldnt be able to keep the whole of the mortgage on interest only. And that would
mean the contractual monthly payment (CMP) would increase. Due to the likely increase in
CMP Santander carried out an affordability check and told Mr H it could not offer him the full
amount of the mortgage he wanted. And to offer him a reduced amount it would need to
conduct a credit check. It did so, with Mr Hs agreement, and an underpayment issue with a
separate loan was flagged. In that call Mr H agreed with Santander that the application
would continue but he would resolve the issue with the separate loan.
Our investigator thought Santander had followed its procedures and had explained the
porting process to Mr H. And, as Mr H says hes resolved the issue with the separate loan,
he may wish to apply again with Santander.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators opinion. He said he was told during the calls that porting
means transferring his current balance and current product to the new property. It wasnt
made clear to him that this was subject to a full application. Santanders message to him
was consistent before the call when the credit check was carried out, in that his mortgage
would be successfully ported to his new property. And hes been consistently told that the
same 100% interest only mortgage would be transferred to his new property. He based his
decision to sell his house on the reassurance he received from Santander.
As Mr H disagreed with our investigator, his complaint has been passed to me for a
decision.
Based on the evidence available at the time, I wrote to both parties with my provisional
decision on 5 May 2023 stating my intention to uphold this complaint. Both parties 
responded and new evidence provided changed my thoughts on what the correct decision 
should be. Because of that new evidence, I didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld 
and I wrote to both parties explaining that on 14 September 2023. Again, I allowed both 
parties the opportunity to make further submissions. Theyve done so and, having 
considered their final submissions, I can now go on to explain my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision dated 14 September 2023, I wrote the following:
To decide Mr Hs complaint, Ive thought about whether Santander led him to believe it
would allow him to port his mortgage  with all the same features  to a new property and
that his application wouldnt be subject to assessment. Ive also thought about whether
Santander fairly assessed Mr Hs application.
Generally, the purpose of a porting option on a mortgage is that the interest rate product 
can be transferred to the new mortgage when a borrower moves home. The benefits are 
that the interest rate product is retained, and any ERC does not become payable. 
However, the mortgage itself is new and can be subject to a full application. The 
assessment of the application is likely to take into account the suitability of the new 
property for the mortgage and the affordability of the new mortgage payments, as well as 
ability to repay the capital if the mortgage is on interest only terms. 
Where the borrower isnt increasing the amount they want to borrow  as Mr H wasnt  
theres flexibility in the mortgage rules allowing a lender to set aside the need for an 
affordability assessment and an assessment of interest only repayment strategy. 
In Mr Hs case, he didnt want to sell and buy simultaneously. Santanders porting option 
allows for that as long as a new property is purchased, and the new mortgage starts, 
within 90 days of the previous mortgage being redeemed.
Did Santander mislead Mr H?Ive thought about whether Santander told Mr H that his new mortgage wasnt subject to 
an application process, and so led him to believe he would automatically keep all the 
features of his existing mortgage. Santander has provided call recordings from               
12 October 2021 and 25 October 2021 during which Mr H talked about moving home and 
porting his mortgage. On 12 October Santander told Mr H he can port his mortgage and 
theres a specialist team he can talk to who would explain the criteria that applies. 
Santander explained that Mr H wouldnt have to sell and buy simultaneously. But Mr H 
declined Santanders offer to put him through to the specialist team.
During the call of 25 October 2021 Mr H talked about his intentions to take out a bridging
loan. Santander said it doesnt offer bridging loans and informed him again of the facility 
to port when not selling and buying simultaneously. And it also said hed need to speak to 
its specialist team. But it would appear that Mr H didnt do that until 3 August 2022 when 
he was told about Santanders interest only criteria and how that applied in his case.
While Ive seen that Santander did tell Mr H before 3 August 2022 that he could port his
mortgage, I think it made it clear that criteria applied, and hed need to discuss that with 
the specialist team. His mortgage terms and conditions would also have confirmed that 
the porting feature was subject to specific criteria. I havent seen that Santander made 
any promises about Mr H getting an identical mortgage without the need for an 
application and assessment. So, I dont think it misled Mr H about that.
Was Santanders assessment of Mr Hs application fair and reasonable?
In my first provisional decision, I wrote:
Santander informed Mr H during the call on 3 August 2022 that, under its current
criteria, it wont allow him to have over 50% of the value of the property on interest
only terms. That meant a portion of the new mortgage would need to be set up on a
capital repayment basis and that would increase the CMP. And, as the CMP would
increase, Santander needed to assess whether the new mortgage payment was
affordable.
As explained above, I accept that Santander didnt mislead Mr H about it needing to
assess his application to port. I also accept that, because Mr H was selling the
existing mortgaged property and wanted a mortgage on a new one, he was applying
for a new mortgage. However, he wasnt asking Santander to lend him new money,
as the loan already existed. I havent seen that Mr H wanted to increase his
borrowing or that his loan to value would increase. So, his plans didnt increase
Santanders risk, or his own risk. And I understand that he didnt have a history of
arrears, meaning Santander had no cause to believe he may not be able to make
future payments.
Santander applied its current interest only criteria to Mr Hs application. But it only
decided that was necessary because he wanted to change the mortgaged property 
under the porting facility the mortgage terms and conditions allowed. I understand
that Santander may have been concerned that Mr Hs interest only repayment
strategy had changed. But it hasnt said that it would have reassessed the existing
mortgage because of that, if Mr H didnt want to port. So, I dont think his application
to port was reason enough for Santander to apply its current interest only criteria, if
the port itself didnt represent an increased risk to either party.
In saying that Ive thought about the mortgage rules, in the MCOB section of the
FCAs Handbook. MCOB 11.6.2 requires a lender to assess affordability when
granting a new mortgage or varying an existing one  though 11.6.3 says thatrequirement doesnt apply where theres no further borrowing and no other change to
the mortgage contract thats material to affordability.
In this case, based on what Santander was prepared to offer, Mr Hs mortgage type
would change from interest only to part repayment, and his monthly payment would
increase. Those are changes to the mortgage terms material to affordability  which
means under the rules Santander had to do a full affordability assessment. The result
of that affordability assessment meant that Santander offered Mr H less than his
current mortgage balance  impacting his plans to port his mortgage.
I dont think that was fair. The only reason Mr H was in this position was because of
Santanders lending criteria that it doesnt allow more than 50% loan to value on
interest only. That meant he had to convert part of the mortgage to repayment terms
 and Santander had to do the affordability assessment.
This is the criteria Santander applies to new borrowers. But Mr H wasnt a new
borrower. He already had a Santander mortgage on fully interest only terms. Allowing
Mr H to port his mortgage retaining it on interest only terms meant he would have
been able to go ahead with his plans  and wouldnt have increased Santanders risk
exposure either, since it wouldnt have been agreeing to anything more than it was
already lending. I recognise Santander is entitled to change its lending criteria at any
time, and since Mr H took out his first mortgage it no longer wants to lend over 50%
loan to value on interest only. It would be reasonable to refuse a new application on
that basis  but Mr H wasnt a new borrower. He was an existing customer only
seeking to retain what he already had.
That means if Santander cant clearly show that Mr Hs plan to port his mortgage
represented increased risk to either party, I dont think it assessed his application
fairly. I dont think it needed to apply the 50% limit to Mr Hs interest only borrowing,
meaning it didnt need to require a change to repayment type or an increased CMP.
And so, I dont think it needed to reassess affordability based on the increased CMP. 
I think if it hadnt done so, it was unlikely to have declined his application to port, 
given his mortgage payment track record. As I think Santander didnt assess Mr Hs
application fairly, I uphold his complaint.
However, Santander responded with evidence showing that Mr Hs plans were to move to 
a property of significantly less value than the one he had a mortgage on with Santander.
Santanders records  specifically its record of Mr Hs proposed application for the new
mortgage and telephone recordings during which Mr H detailed his plans  show that the
purchase price of Mr Hs proposed new property was £545,000.
As Mr Hs existing property sold for approximately £750,000 and his proposed mortgage
borrowing was not changing, his proposed loan to value percentage would increase
significantly. That represents an increased risk to Santander. And because Mr Hs
application posed an increased risk to Santander, I think it was reasonable for it to 
conduct an affordability assessment.
As Santander has now shown Mr Hs plan to port his mortgage did represent an 
increased risk, I think it did assess Mr Hs application fairly. I think it was reasonable, 
under the circumstances Ive now been made aware of, that Santander applied its current 
lending criteria.
While I understand that my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr H, particularly
given my previous provisional decision, the new evidence provided means I dont uphold
Mr Hs complaint.Santander accepted my decision, but Mr H did not. He said the loan to value issue was not 
brought up by Santander during any of the conversations he had with it about porting his 
mortgage. Mr H said he was never informed that he had to retain the same LTV and he 
wasnt told the LTV was the reason for declining the mortgage.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Hs comments. Having done so, they havent changed my 
decision. Ill explain why.
From the evidence available, it appears that, in considering Mr Hs request to port his 
mortgage, Santander responded to the circumstances Mr H presented to it. Mr H had found 
a property and he wanted to port his mortgage to that property. I think Santander assessed 
Mr Hs circumstances, including the value of the new property and how much he wanted to 
borrow based on its lending criteria.
Ive previously said, having done that, Santander wasnt obliged by MCOB rules to reassess 
affordability. Thats because I thought the new  proposed  circumstances didnt represent 
a greater risk than his previous mortgage. But, given that I now know the new property would 
have been of a significantly lower value than the one he sold  Santanders previous security 
for the mortgage  Im satisfied that the new mortgage would have increased Santanders 
risk. It reduced the security for the mortgage. So, that means it was reasonable that 
Santander reassessed affordability and  importantly here  did so under its current lending 
criteria. According to that lending criteria Mr Hs repayment vehicle was insufficient and led 
to the need for him to change a portion of his mortgage to capital repayment. And that led to 
the potential increase in contractual monthly payments and concerns about affordability. 
I understand that the difference may be subtle here, but the reason Mr H couldnt proceed 
with the mortgage was that the part repayment and part interest only wasnt deemed 
affordable under Santanders lending criteria. The change in LTV meant that the proposed 
lending was a greater risk than the previous lending and that meant Santander was justified 
in assessing affordability and applying current lending policy. As Ive said, I think Santander 
assessed the application Mr H made. I dont think it was obliged to assess other  
hypothetical  circumstances that may have worked for Mr H, such as him purchasing a 
different property to the one he wanted. 
As Mr Hs submissions havent led me to change my provisional decision of 14 September 
2023, my final decision is I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman