DRN-3870352
The complaint
Mr E complains that Al Rayan Bank PLC gave him poor customer service in relation to a 
certificate of profit he asked for.
What happened
Mr E asked Al Rayan for a certificate of profit. He received an email which directed him to a 
third parties software to view this. He said when he chose a password, he received a 
message saying invalid user name, password or permissions. Mr E made a complaint to Al 
Rayan.
Al Rayan did not uphold Mr Es complaint. They said any access issues he was experiencing 
with the third party relates to them. They said this could be resolved by Mr E contacting the 
third party or to go through their security reset process as they had no control over the third 
party. Mr E brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Es complaint. He said Al Rayan sent the certificate of 
profit via third party software. As Mr E couldnt log into the platform, Al Rayan advised him to 
speak to the third party company in the first instance. Our investigator said that he would 
expect Al Rayan to tell Mr E what he needed to do to resolve the access issues in the first 
instance, which is what they had done. He said Al Rayan didnt receive further contact from 
Mr E following advice to contact the third party company. He said that if they received further 
contact and Mr E was still struggling with access despite contacting the third party, then Al 
Rayan could have sent the information by post. He said that as Al Rayan werent made 
aware that Mr E was still having problems with access, then its not unreasonable for them to 
ask him to resolve the technical issue in the first instance.
Mr E asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said that he shouldnt be responsible for sorting out a system issue with a third 
party provider when his relationship is with Al Rayan and not the third party. He said Al 
Rayan did not offer to send the certificate by post and they simply told him to contact the 
third party company and they did not tell him who to speak to or give him any contact details.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to explain to Mr E that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their certificate procedures or whether they should issue these directly from themselves or to 
use a third party to enable him to view the document sent to him. It would be the role of the 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Al Rayan to 
make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
I asked Al Rayan why they sent the certificate of profit through a third party provider. They 
explained that when customers send them a secure message through their online banking, 
their system does not have the functionality to add attachments. They have said that this is 
currently being reviewed by one of their teams to see if this facility can be implemented in 
the near future. So I hope this explains to Mr E why Al Rayan uses a third party to encrypt 
the attachment they made available to him.
Ive considered what Mr E has said about Al Rayan not telling him who to speak to and not 
giving him contact details to the third party. But Al Rayan have explained to me that they 
dont hold any contact numbers for the third party. So they would be unable to provide a 
contact number for Mr E here. But in this instance, Im not persuaded that Mr E would need 
to directly contact the third party business directly. I say this because contacting the third 
party is not the only option Al Rayan gave Mr E. They also said that he could go through the 
third party security reset process. Looking at the original complaint that Mr E made to Al 
Rayan, he said when he chooses a password, he received a message saying invalid user 
name, password or permissions. So its probable that following the third party security reset 
process would have enabled him to resolve this issue. 
But if this didnt work, Mr E may have been able to find out the contact details for the third 
party online. While I understand he shouldnt be responsible for sorting out a system issue 
with a third party provider when his relationship is with Al Rayan, based on the issues with 
the password, then he would need to contact someone to resolve this, regardless of whose 
software this was. And so he would have needed to find the details to speak to someone 
about this. But its likely the security reset process would have prevented the need to contact 
either company involved here.
I understand the reason for Mr E bringing his complaint to us at the time he did, to ensure 
that the deadline to do so wasnt missed. But as Al Rayan had no further contact after they 
issued their final response, they would not be aware of any problems with the advice they 
gave Mr E to obtain the certificate. So it would be reasonable for Al Rayan to believe that Mr 
E would have been able to access his certificate based on what they told him would resolve 
his issue. But Al Rayan have said if he had let them know of any further problems then they 
could have sent the certificate via the post. 
Mr E has confirmed that he still hasnt accessed his certificate of profit. Al Rayan have sent 
this to our service when responding to my questions about their process, so I will ask our 
investigator to forward this onto Mr E. But it follows I dont require Al Rayan to do anything 
further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman