DRN-3249940
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the administration of his buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage account by 
The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB). Mr C is unhappy that correspondence was sent by 
TMB to addresses that he didnt live at. Mr C is also unhappy at the way TMB dealt with a 
previous complaint.
What happened
Mr C has several BTL properties, one of which has a mortgage with TMB taken out in 2008. 
Unfortunately the mortgage fell into arrears and letters were sent to Mr C. In 2015 Mr C 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said hed told TMB in 2012 to 
correspond with him only at his home address, but TMB had sent letters to multiple 
addresses. 
In June 2015 an ombudsman issued a final decision on the complaint. She found no 
evidence that letters had been sent to any address other than Mr Cs residence and the 
mortgaged property. She found no evidence that the tenants had left the property due to 
opening letters addressed to Mr C. As a result, she didnt uphold the complaint. 
In 2019 Mr C made a Subject Access Request (SAR) to TMB. From that he learned that 
letters had been sent to two other addresses. He complained to TMB about this in April 
2019. TMB didnt respond to the complaint until 26 October 2019. TMB didnt uphold the 
complaint about sending correspondence to other addresses. TMB also said it had dealt with 
the complaint previously and that the Financial Ombudsman Service had agreed TMB could 
write to Mr C at his home and at the property address. TMB paid Mr C £250 for not 
responding to the complaint when it was first made in April 2019.
Unhappy with TMBs response, Mr C referred his complaint to us. Initially the investigator 
didnt think we could look at it. However, after reviewing the evidence, he found that TMB 
had, in fact, written to Mr C at two addresses that had not been referred to in the previous 
complaint in 2015. The investigator thought this was material new evidence that would allow 
us to review the complaint.
The investigator upheld the complaint. He noted that the information about two other 
addresses TMB had written to werent included in its file submission from 2015. TMB said 
this was down to human error and explained that the third address was what they believed to 
be a business address of Mr Cs. TMB had no explanation for the fourth address. The 
investigator didnt think it was reasonable for TMB to have written to these addresses and he 
asked TMB to pay Mr C an additional £250, which it agreed to do.
Mr C didnt accept this. He disputed that it was human error that led TMB to omit the 
information from its complaint submission in 2015. Mr C also said that, at the relevant time, 
he was in constant contact with TMB. Mr C also reiterated that it was because TMB had 
written to the property address that the tenants had left.
The investigator didnt change his opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill explain first that I wont be reconsidering anything that was covered in the previous 
ombudsmans decision dated 8 June 2015. The ombudsman made a finding in that 
complaint that there was no evidence the tenants left due to letters sent by TMB. There is no 
new evidence in relation to that point, and so I wont be reconsidering it.
Mr C has also raised issues around a court order against him. TMB says that this relates to a 
different business, albeit one thats part of the same group of companies. If Mr C is 
concerned about a court order against him, hell need to contact the court which granted the 
order against him, or the business which is named as Claimant on the order. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service doesnt have any power to interfere in a court order.
I will also explain here that complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity. What this means is 
that Mr Cs complaint about the way TMB has handled his complaints  both in 2015 when 
he believes TMB deliberately withheld information during the course of his complaint, and 
when TMB didnt reply to his complaint made in April 2019  arent covered by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
TMB has offered £250 compensation for not replying to the 2019 complaint, and I leave it to 
Mr C to decide if he wants to accept that, separate from, and in addition to, the 
compensation for the errors relating to the address. I dont have any power to award 
compensation for poor complaint-handling.
Putting things right
TMB has acknowledged that it shouldnt have written to the two other addresses and its 
agreed to pay Mr C the £250 requested by the investigator as compensation. I think this is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The evidence doesnt show that letters sent to 
those two addresses resulted in any breach of Mr Cs personal data, or any financial loss. 
But I agree with the investigator that finding out about this in 2019 has caused Mr C some 
distress and upset. In the circumstances, I think a payment of £250 for this is appropriate 
and is proportionate to the mistake made by TMB.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement The 
Mortgage Business Plc must pay Mr C £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience. I 
make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman