DRN-3929264
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) declined her 
claim for stolen photographic equipment. 
What happened
On 5 March 2022, Miss B was waiting at a bus stop with her camera equipment 
stored in a suitcase and tripod bag. 
Miss B took some steps towards the shop behind her to ask about the bus service 
and when she turned back, her equipment was gone.
She submitted a claim to Watford which was declined because it said the items were 
left unattended and Miss B therefore has no cover under her policy.
Unhappy with this response, Miss B brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld because it was likely 
Miss B had left the items unattended. He said, the fact that the items were taken, 
demonstrates Miss B wasnt in a position to be able to prevent interference with 
them. He concluded that Watford were right to decline the claim. 
Miss B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, 
its been passed to me. 
In summary, Miss B says it had never been made clear to her which of the policy 
definitions were being used to refuse her claim. Watford has applied too wide an 
interpretation of the policy wording of items being left unattended. She also says the 
first call she made with Watford was when she was under huge stress, and she felt 
under pressure by the claim investigator to provide information. Miss B further 
explained that the bus stop and the shop was a distance no greater than two metres 
between the two. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Miss Bs policy as this forms the basis 
of the insurance contract between her and Watford. 
Page 5 of the policy document defines Unattended as:
If the insured item is either not:
a) Being held or used by you:
b) Within your immediate vicinity and where you are in a position to prevent 
interference with the insured item;
c)
Page 6 states:
Requirements: Away from Your Insured Location
When you are away from your insured location, cover will not apply if the insured 
item has been left unattended.
Based on the above, there is cover on the policy for stolen equipment. So, Ive gone on to 
look at what happened in the circumstances. Miss B has said she took steps towards the 
shop, away from the bus stop, and the equipment was there but when she turned around, it 
had gone. 
Ive carefully considered what this means in terms of the claim shes made for the stolen 
equipment. The terms and conditions are clear in defining Unattended. My understanding is 
that the equipment that was stolen wasnt being held by Miss B. Its therefore clear she 
wasnt in a position to prevent interference with the insured items. 
I appreciate Miss B says she only took a few steps away and the items were in her vicinity. 
But the crux of the issue is that Miss B wasnt in a position to prevent interference. Even 
though she might have been in the vicinity, she still wasnt able to prevent the incident 
happening and the items werent also being held by her either. 
Ive looked at the photos of the area where the items were taken. Ive also listened to the 
calls Miss B had when she reported the claim. Shes said in the call that there were quite a 
few people around but, I understand there were no witnesses either. Miss B has also said, 
during the first call she made to report the claim, she was under stress and felt she was led 
into answering the questions. I dont agree. She was asked to explain what happened in her 
own words and there were a few instances where the information wasnt forthcoming, so the 
claims handler asked questions to bring the conversation along. 
Ive considered Miss Bs comments that the policy wording has been applied too widely. Im 
not persuaded this is the case. Watford has looked at the definition of Unattended in the 
context of what Miss B has told them and the supporting evidence she has provided. The 
issue here is that the items were left unattended as per the definition of the policy terms. And 
Miss B was away from the items that were stolen and also the location. Therefore, there is 
no cover if those items were left unattended. Miss B further said her back was turned away 
from the items as she went to ask about the bus service. 
Taking everything into account and all the evidence available, while I appreciate Miss B will 
be disappointed, I dont think Watford has declined her claim unfairly or unreasonably. And I 
dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask Watford to accept 
Miss Bs claim. It therefore follows that I dont require Watford to do anything further. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint against Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman