DRN-3465406
The complaint
Mr K has complained about his previous motor insurer West Bay Insurance Plc as it 
cancelled his policy and told him it was placing his details on a fraud register. Hes said he;s 
since been unable to find cover at an affordable price. 
What happened
Mr K bought a car and insured it with West Bay. But West Bay noted what it felt was some 
concerning activity and cancelled Mr Ks policy with immediate effect. A letter was sent by 
email which said:
It has come to our attention that the details used to take out this policy match against 
multiple policies which have already been cancelled or voided by us and/or other insurers 
due to suspicious activities. And; 
Due to new information that has come to light the policy has now been cancelled due to 
proven fraud and therefore means you were in breach of the fraud condition in your policy 
documents. And;
Please note that your details will now be loaded to the national Insurance Fraud Register,
administered by the Insurance Fraud Bureau, and will be searchable by other insurers to aid 
in the prevention of fraud.
Mr K was concerned. He said this had been his first policy and he hadnt had insurance 
before. But West Bay wouldnt change its view and issued a final response to Mr K 
confirming it felt its decision to cancel his policy had been fair and reasonable because it had 
found out he had previously had policies cancelled. The final response also explained:
With regards to the letter, I am sorry that you didnt like the wording. The wording is 
designed to provide you with the real reason for the policy cancellation and isnt intended to 
cause any offence.
Mr K complained to us. West Bay provided us its file and explained that the cancellation 
letter it had sent had been incorrect. It said there had been suspicious activity which had 
concerned it, but this wasnt to do with previous policies in Mr Ks name which had been 
cancelled. It shared with us its real reason for cancelling but asked that we didnt disclose 
that for reasons of confidentiality.  
Our investigator noted the reasoning given by West Bay, and its request for confidentiality. 
But she asked it to provide proof to support its reasoning ie to show that it was most likely 
that Mr K had been involved in suspicious activity. Having considered its replies, she felt it 
hadnt been able to show that. She said West Bay should remove any cancellation or fraud 
markers recorded for Mr Ks name, and pay him £10 a day for loss of use of a car (because 
he hadnt been able to obtain insurance), as well as £300 compensation for upset.  
West Bay said it maintained its cancellation had been justified  but it accepted it hadnt 
followed what it considered to be the correct process for cancellation. So it said it would 
remove any cancellation and fraud markers and pay the £300 compensation. But it said it felt 
the loss of use payment was unfair because shortly after the cancellation Mr K had sold that 
car and another, family car, which Mr K did not own, had been purchased and insured by 
Mr Ks mother. It also felt that Mr K could have got insurance if he had wanted to, and if that 
had been more expensive there was no way to know why that might be  it was perfect 
possible that offers of cover from other insurers were affected by things unrelated to the 
cancellation and fraud record. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find Im of the same view as our investigator. Ive explained why briefly 
below. But, in deference to West Bays, not unreasonable, request made in respect of 
confidentiality, on this occasion, I wont be setting out all of the details behind West Bays 
true reason for cancelling this cover.
An insurer has a number of duties. Not only to its policyholder but also to the wider industry. 
And a really important part of that is to take reasonable action to prevent fraudulent policies 
from being set up or continuing in place. But in doing that an insurer must also treat each 
policyholder fairly and reasonably. What that will mean in practice will differ in the 
circumstances of every case. But if an insurer acts to cancel a policy mid-term, we will 
always expect an insurer to have very good reason for doing so  that is because 
cancellation like this will often have a negative and significant impact on the policyholder.
Here I can understand, from what West Bay has shown me it saw, why it had concerns 
about certain activity. But concerns alone are not a good enough reason for cancelling 
mid-term. Id at least expect to have seen from West Bay some compelling data that linked 
Mr K to confirmed, unacceptable activity  not just that there was activity occurring, the 
nature of which is often an indicator of something more sinister going on. Especially not 
when, in this instance, there is a perfectly plausible, innocent and innocuous reason for the 
activity in question.
I also think West Bay compounded its error by giving Mr K incorrect reasoning for the 
cancellation. That caused him to worry he had been the victim of identity theft  he hadnt 
ever had other cover, so if there were policies in his name which had been cancelled, 
someone else must have set them up. And West Bay had also told Mr K that his policy had 
been cancelled on ground of fraud. When new polices are applied for, insurers will often 
want to know if a policy, for either the prospective policyholder or any named driver, has 
been cancelled and for what reason. Many insurers will not want to offer cover where a 
policyholder has had a policy cancelled on the grounds of fraud. And if they do offer cover it 
will be at a high premium. I dont doubt that Mr K had difficulty getting cover, either in his 
own right or as a named driver. 
I dont think it matters that the policy West Bay cancelled was for a car Mr K sold and that, 
after that, he didnt own another car. In order for him to buy a car he would have to be 
prepared and able to insure it  which he couldnt as he couldnt find affordable cover. And 
had his mother looked to add him as a named driver on to her policy, I think shed only have 
likely been able to do so at a greatly increased premium. West Bays actions, therefore, 
effectively made Mr K an uninsurable proposition  which he had not been before. Before 
that he had been insured and had been able to drive. So I think its only fair and reasonable 
that West Bay compensates him at a rate of £10 a day for loss of use of a car, from the date 
of the unfair and unreasonable cancellation until settlement is made. I know its been an upsetting and worrying time for Mr K too. So I also think £300 
compensation for distress and inconvenience is fairly and reasonably due. 
Im aware that West Bay had assured our investigator that it had already taken down the 
cancellation and fraud markers it had logged for Mr K. But that Mr K says that following 
some recent enquiries with other insurers, he is still having difficulty getting insurance. From 
what Mr K has said, I dont know if that is on account of West Bays actions or not. In any 
event, it is an accepted final decision by this service that binds an insurer to act. So, if Mr K 
accepts my final decision, West Bay will be bound to act to remove any markers it put in 
place (if it hasnt done so already). If Mr K later finds out it hasnt complied with my decision, 
then he can take advice about enforcing it. But I sincerely hope that will not be necessary. 
Putting things right
I require West Bay to:
Remove any record of cancellation or fraud from its own and any industry database.
Pay Mr K £10 a day from 28 May 2021 until settlement is made.
Pay Mr K £300 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require West Bay Insurance Plc to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman