DRN-2766851
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C are unhappy because Zurich Insurance plc (Zurich) declined their claim for 
theft under their home insurance policy. The policy was in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer 
only to Mr C throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr C took a short break from unpacking his van during his house move. When he returned, 
although hed locked the van, he found that paperwork was scattered around and a jewellery 
box was missing. After asking the on-site builders if theyd seen anything, Mr C reported the 
theft of around £15,000 worth of jewellery to the police and claimed under his insurance for 
contents within the home.
Zurich carried out a lengthy investigation and declined the claim. It said that Mr Cs van 
wasnt parked within the boundary of his home, so he wasnt covered for theft under the 
contents policy. 
Zurich went on to consider the claim under the Personal Possessions cover. But, because 
the jewellery wasnt stored in a glove or luggage compartment while the van was 
unattended, the policy excluded cover for theft.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint because she thought Zurich had declined Mr Cs 
claim in line with the terms of the policy. 
Mr C didnt agree, and he asked for further consideration. He said the van was within the 
boundary of his home, as confirmed by the site developer, so the jewellery should be 
covered under his contents policy. Mr C also said that the glove box had been broken into so 
even if the jewellery had been stored in there, it wouldve been taken.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr C will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint for broadly 
the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
The theft itself is not in dispute. The issue, here, is that Mr C doesnt think Zurich shouldve 
declined his claim for the reasons it gave. So, Ive looked at the policy booklet to see 
whether Zurichs decision was in line with the relevant terms, and the policy schedule to 
identify any specific exclusions. Ill address Zurichs decision on each of the contents and 
personal possessions sections in turn.
Contents
The theft was from Mr Cs van and his initial claim was under his contents insurance. His 
policy defines contents as, household goods and personal property; valuables, and 
covers, sudden and unexpected loss or physical damage caused by events 1 to 13to the 
contents in your home which are owned byyou or your family. Event 6 covers theft, so Im 
satisfied that Mr C was covered for theft from within his home.
However, Zurich declined his claim because the jewellery was stolen from his van, which 
was outside the boundary of his home. Mr C disputes this and he provided evidence to show 
that hed been granted permission to park his van on the street across from his new home 
while builders worked on the development. Therefore, he considers the parking space to be 
within the boundary of his home.
Mr C had a driveway next to his home, which I understand was available to him, and the 
plans show that a further parking space was to be allocated on completion of the 
development. But the space where Mr C parked is shown on the diagram as three quarters 
across the boundary of another property with the remaining quarter on the road. I accept that 
Mr C parked his van in a temporarily designated space, but that doesnt mean the space is 
within the boundary of his home. Its likely that reaching a parking agreement with the 
developers was to prevent undue disruption during building works and its unreasonable to 
assume that it extended the legal boundary of his property to the plot and road opposite his 
home. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that the jewellery was not stolen from within the home (or its 
boundary) and that Zurich fairly declined Mr Cs claim under his contents insurance.
Personal Possessions
Zurich went on to consider Mr Cs claim under Section C of the policy. Personal Possessions 
are defined in the policy as:
Property which is worn or used about the person in every day life and which belongs to you 
or your family or for which you are responsible and is covered in and away from the home.
Mr C reported that the jewellery was mostly antique. Having looked at the description, it falls 
within the definition of valuables, so Ive included that here for reference:
Valuables  antiques (other than furniture), any articles of gold, silver or other precious 
metal, jewellery, items containing precious stones, gemstones or pearls, watches and 
clocks, furs, pictures or other works of art, curios and collections of stamps, medals or 
coins.
Looking at the cover provided, the policy states: 
We cover, anywhere in the world, sudden and unexpected loss of or physical damage to the 
specified and unspecified items shown in your schedule and/or personal possessions 
specification that are owned by you or your family or for which you or they are responsible.
We will not pay for:
 theft from an unattended motor vehicle unless the vehicle was securely locked and the 
property was hidden in a glove or luggage compartment.
I think it was fair that Zurich also considered the claim under another section of the policy, 
but its clear that Mr Cs claim falls under the exclusion stated above. The theft was from his 
unattended, albeit locked, van but the jewellery wasnt hidden in a glove or luggage 
compartment. Mr C reported to the police that it was in the footwell, covered to obscure from 
view. But as the policy clearly states that cover is only available if possessions are stored in a glove or luggage compartment, Im satisfied Zurich declined his claim in line with the 
policy.
Mr C later reported to Zurich that the jewellery was behind the bulkhead. I take this to mean 
that he considered it equivalent to the boot of a car  a luggage compartment. The issue 
here is that Mr C changed his description of where the jewellery was stored within the van, 
meaning Zurich needed to decide which account of events was most likely to be correct. I 
think it was reasonable for Zurich to rely on the police report, supported by the recording of 
the call Mr C had with the police, in which he said the jewellery was under cover in the 
footwell. Therefore, as already explained, the jewellery wasnt stored in line with the policy, 
so the theft wasnt covered.
Mr C said that the glovebox was also broken into, suggesting that if the jewellery had been 
stored there, it wouldve been found anyway. Ive thought carefully about this point, but I 
cant fairly say that Zurich should pay Mr Cs claim just because the jewellery mightve been 
found anyway. The fact is, the policy requires possessions to be stored hidden in a glove or 
luggage compartment and that wasnt the case, here.
As a final point, Id like to mention that the policy schedule provides further clarification of the 
cover available to Mr C. Ive looked at the schedule and I can see that Mr C didnt have 
cover for any specified valuables or personal possessions. Therefore, cover wouldve been 
limited as follows:
Valuables - £30,000 total for valuables within contents, with a single article limit of 
£2,500.
Personal possessions - £3,000 total for unspecified personal possessions, with a 
single article limit £1,500.
Mr Cs claim was for around £15,000. Within the evidence, Ive seen that the stolen jewellery 
was valued at around £30,000 with two items valued in excess of £9,000 each. So, its clear 
to me that even if Mr Cs claim had been covered, Zurichs payment wouldve been limited to 
the cover mentioned above, and far less than the initial claim.
Im genuinely sorry to hear about Mr Cs loss and it seems, from having read the police 
report, that he was the victim of an opportunist thief. But Im satisfied that Zurich declined his 
claim fairly in line with the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman