DRN-3181328
The complaint
Mr B complains TSB Bank Plc is unfairly holding his funds following the closure of his current 
account. He wants the funds paid to him and compensation for the inconvenience he has 
experienced.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and were clearly set out by the 
investigator who issued their view on this complaint. The facts are not in dispute  instead 
the issue to hand is whether TSB acted correctly by retaining the balance that was in Mr Bs 
current account prior to its closure. So, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why:
TSB has a wide discretion to end its relationship with a customer, and I havent seen 
evidence to show it acted outside of that discretion when it closed Mr Bs account. 
I understand why the account closed. Although TSB only asked for precise 
information from Mr B in 2020, on balance, Im persuaded it previously wrote to Mr B 
asking him to get in touch about several payments. Im also persuaded it said it 
would close the account if it didnt hear from him. As TSB didnt receive a response 
from Mr B, I find it could close the account.
Mr B has asked for clarification on the limits of what information a bank can ask for. 
But there is no one law which sets those limits. Instead, firms such as TSB have 
important legal and regulatory responsibilities, which derive from a range of legal 
sources and industry guidance. Those responsibilities are often overriding, and they 
generally concern preventing financial harm where possible, including harm to third 
parties. 
To comply with their responsibilities, firms will monitor accounts and they may ask 
questions about the activity on an account and ask for supporting evidence. They are 
entitled to conduct their own investigations, and they can ask questions regarding the 
origin and purpose of payments, irrespective of the checks a loan provider carried out 
to approve a loan.
Firms might also take preventative action while they review accounts, which can 
include stopping a customer from accessing their account or making payments. 
Actions of this kind are common in the industry.
A large amount of activity happened on Mr Bs TSB account over a short period of 
time. So, TSB acted reasonably by querying the activity and wanting to gather 
information from Mr B to establish what was happening. So, I find its decision to 
remove Mr Bs access to the funds was proportionate.
Mr B provided statements for an account he holds with another bank (Bank C), which 
showed a large payment crediting that account. Mr B told us the payment 
represented half of a mortgage loan he had taken out with his mother-in-law with 
another bank (Bank D). But after Mr B provided his statements TSB made 
assumptions about the payment; those being:
- It was unusual for the mortgage loan to be split and paid to two persons if it 
was meant to be for Mr Bs sole benefit. This led TSB to form a concern about 
why the other mortgage holder would subsequently pay their half back to Mr 
B. 
But Mr B explained to us that the mortgage was taken out to develop a new 
property for him (and presumably his spouse) to live in. He was responsible 
for managing the build and making payments, and he explained it was the 
conveyancer who required the loan payment to be split between each 
account holder.
- The payer was Mr Bs spouse or ex-spouse. 
Its not clear why TSB didnt clarify who the payer was, at which point they 
would have discovered it was Mr Bs mother-in-law.
TSB asked Mr B to provide certified statements belonging to his mother-in-law to 
show the mortgage payment being paid into her account with bank D and then paid 
out to Mr Bs account with bank C. Mr B, however, believes asking for this 
information would invade his mother-in-laws privacy. He also cant compel her to 
provide this kind of information. 
I understand Mr Bs perspective. Asking for personal information in the form of 
another persons bank statements to help resolve a personal matter that person is 
not party to can be challenging and embarrassing. Just because the payer was his 
mother-in-law doesnt mean he should feel comfortable involving her in a banking 
problem he was experiencing, irrespective of the joint mortgage they had taken out to 
develop a property.
Sometimes it might be necessary to ask a customer to try and obtain information 
which is not readily available to them and which might belong to someone else. But I 
dont find TSBs insistence on only accepting certified statements from Mr Bs mother 
in law was reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has provided persuasive evidence to show what the payment made by his 
mother-in-law was. He provided a copy of the mortgage confirmation letter and 
completion statement from bank D to show a mortgage was taken out in both his and 
her name. He provided evidence from the conveyancer for the mortgage provider 
which shows the two payments being made to each party  and its clear the sum he 
received from his mother-in-law corresponds to the amount paid to her. He has also 
shown he was developing a property. The statements he provided show a payment 
to a construction company, and an architects certificate he provided regards a 
payment to the same construction company. 
In February 2020 one of TSBs employees rang bank C. A note recorded on TSBs 
system from that time indicates bank C told TSB it had no concerns about the 
payment, and it had concluded the payment was the other half of the mortgage loan 
which was paid in by the other mortgage account holder. I find this is a persuasive 
indication that the payment was genuine. 
Its noticeable that bank C has not been in further contact, which it would have likely 
been if a claim on the funds had been made. And, I find its more likely that if a dispute existed regarding the payment, a claim would have arisen by now given how 
long ago the payment was made and its size.
TSB says its prior experience with bank D is that it wont provide information. But 
whether that is the case, it should still have let bank D know about its concern, given 
it wasnt going to be able to obtain statements concerning bank Ds customer through 
Mr B. 
I cant see TSB attempted to contact the conveyancer to see whether the information 
it wanted could be gathered that way, such as getting an explanation about why the 
mortgage loan was split in two and what the mortgage was for. Neither do I see it 
asked Mr B to do this. And I dont see TSB asked bank C to confirm whether it had 
carried out an investigation into the payment and whether it had received information 
to show the payment going into Mr Bs mother in laws account and then being paid 
to the account Mr B held with it.
On balance, I find TSB failed to properly clarify the relationship between Mr B and the 
payer, and it failed to reasonably gather other information and evidence from Mr B, 
which he was able to provide to our investigator. Instead, it narrowed its approach to 
only accepting one type of evidence  evidence which Mr B found contentious and 
which he had no actual authority to obtain or provide.
TSB ought to have asked for other information from Mr B and relevant third parties 
from 7 February 2020, when it made incorrect assumptions about the payment in 
question. And, had it asked for further information, its reasonable to conclude it 
should have received and reviewed that information within one month. At this point, I 
find it ought to have been satisfied about the origin of the funds it was holding, so it 
should have released those funds to Mr B by 7 March 2020.
I find TSB not acting when it should have has caused unnecessary inconvenience to 
Mr B. And I find £100 is a fair sum to compensate him for the impact this likely had 
on him.
Putting things right
I direct TSB Bank Plc to:
Pay Mr B a sum which is the same as the balance which TSB removed from Mr Bs 
account once it closed.
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the above sum from 7 March 2020 until the 
date redress is paid to Mr B.
Pay £100 to Mr B to compensate him for the inconvenience he has been caused.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint and I direct TSB Bank Plc to pay him redress 
according to my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 Liam King
Ombudsman