DRN-3806010
The complaint
Mr B complains that advice he received from Nationwide Building Society in 2000, to invest 
£3,000 in an equity tracker ISA, was unsuitable.
Mr B is represented by a claims management company (CMC) in this matter.
What happened
In 2000, Mr B and his wife discussed their financial planning with an adviser from 
Nationwide. At the time, the adviser recorded that Mr and Mrs B had a joint monthly income 
of over £2,200 net and had monthly outgoings of around £1,620. Their income was made up 
of a mix of Mr Bs self-employed earnings, including income of around £750 per month 
received from renting out vehicles he owned, and disability benefits that Mrs B received.
The fact find information set out that Mr and Mrs B had combined deposit based savings of 
over £30,000, an endowment plan with a sum assured of £19,000, due to mature in 2006 (it 
appears this was their mortgage repayment vehicle), and shares valued at over £3,000. Mr B 
was also making regular contributions of £67 per month to a personal pension plan. In 
addition, Mrs B also held a Personal Equity Plan valued at around £4,000.
Their outstanding interest only mortgage balance was £12,500 and Mr B also had an 
outstanding car loan of around £7,200. 
Mr Bs attitude to investment risk was described as ambitious.
The adviser recorded that Mr B,  currently has liquid assets totalling £9,942. We have 
agreed that in his case an amount of £7000 should be left available for short term savings 
and for use in an emergency. This leaves an amount of £2942 available for investment.
The adviser recommended that Mr B should invest a £2,000 lump sum in a personal pension 
plan with Nationwide. The contemporaneous records show that Mr B rejected this advice. 
The adviser set out in the report provided to Mr and Mrs B at the time the advice was given:
You have £12,000 in a Nationwide account you wish to utilise £3,000 of these monies into 
medium term investments. You currently have a limited mixture of investments and you are 
unhappy with the returns you are receiving on these deposit based savings.
To meet Mr Bs stated objective the adviser recommended that Mr B should invest £1,500 in 
an equity tracker ISA. She said:
I am recommending a CAT marked Mini Equity Tracker ISA as a medium to long term 
investment in FTSE All Share companies; offering a combination of low charges and tax free 
growth potential for your investment. This is not a fixed term investment and any value 
stated above is a projected amount only. 
The adviser recorded that Mr B had chosen to invest £3,000, rather than the £1,500 she had 
recommended, in the equity tracker ISA. She noted that the £3,000 investment was not 
forming part of her recommendations.
From the records available it appears that Mr B encashed his ISA in 2008. 
In 2021, the CMC representing Mr B in this matter complained to Nationwide about the 
investment advice Mr B had received in 2000, to invest in the equity tracker ISA. It said Mr B 
had no investment experience and should have been advised to pay off the mortgage he 
held with Mrs B, before investing in any investment products.
Nationwide did not uphold the complaint. It said, in summary, that it was satisfied that the 
advice had been suitable for Mr Bs circumstances, attitude to investment risk and capacity 
to take risk. It noted that its adviser had discussed using some of Mr and Mrs Bs deposit 
based savings to reduce their mortgage debt, but they had rejected this suggestion.
The CMC then referred the complaint to this service. 
Having reviewed the information available our investigator said she didnt think the advice Mr 
B had received in 2000 was unsuitable. 
She noted that at the time the advice was given in 2000, Mr and Mrs B had no dependents 
and had a disposable income of around £600 per month. In view of this she said she was 
satisfied that the investment had been affordable. She also noted that the adviser had 
discussed using the money to repay the mortgage Mr B held jointly with his wife, but this had 
been declined in favour of investing for the future. 
She also said she was satisfied that the risk profile of the equity tracker ISA was in line with 
Mr Bs ability to take risk and she noted that he had only invested a small portion of his 
overall savings in the ISA.
The CMC was not satisfied with our investigators view. In summary it said:
The funds chosen were significant gambles for Mr & Mrs B. They had never invested before, 
had no experience or knowledge of investing and had never taken any personal interest in 
finance or equities. Despite this and having no real understanding of the meanings or 
definitions of the risk levels or the associated levels of loss that may be incurred at the 
different levels, Mr & Mrs B have been placed in the highest levels of risk available.
We simply cannot accept that placing this amount of their money, given the debts, variable 
income, lack of disposable income (as explained about the figures are unrealistic in the POS 
docs) and their lack of experience could have been appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.This service does not have the power to consider every complaint referred to us. In 
particular, we cannot usually consider a complaint referred to us more than six years after 
the event complained about, or three years (if later) from the date the complainant ought 
reasonably to have become aware that they might have cause for complaint, unless the 
business consents to us considering the complaint, or exceptional circumstances apply. 
In this case, Nationwide has consented to this service considering this complaint despite the 
advice being complained about having been given in 2000, and the investment having been 
encashed in 2008.
I have carefully considered the points the CMC has made. Having done so, I cannot 
reasonably agree that the advice Mr B received in 2000 was unsuitable. Ill explain why.
Investment experience
The CMC says that Mr B ...had never invested before, had no experience or knowledge of 
investing
I cannot reasonably agree with this claim. The contemporaneous records I have been 
provided with show that Mr B held a mortgage endowment jointly with his wife (it appears 
this was their mortgage repayment vehicle), was contributing to a personal pension plan, 
and held around £3,000 of shares jointly with Mrs B.
In view of this, it is not clear to me why the CMC has claimed that Mr B had never invested 
before and had no investment experience.
Investment advice
The CMC says that it feels the £606 monthly disposable income recorded on the fact find in 
2000 was completely unrealistic. I am mindful however, that in a subsequent fact find, 
completed in early 2001, Mr and Mrs Bs monthly disposable income was recorded as over 
£1,500 per month. If Mr B felt the disposable income recorded in 2000, was too high it is not 
clear to me why he and Mrs B reported a much higher figure in early 2001. In the absence to 
show that the disposable income recorded was incorrect I cant reasonably agree with the 
CMCs claim that it was completely unrealistic.
The CMC also said it felt that as Mr Bs work, which naturally had a seasonally variable 
income and was subject to demand it was important to have a considerable cash reserve  
even more so as his wife was not in a position to work. And it noted that part of Mr and Mrs 
Bs income came from renting out vehicles Mr B owned. It said this source of income could 
have ceased at short notice.
I appreciate the points the CMC has made, but it appears it has overlooked that, even after 
Mr B had invested a total of £3,000 in the equity tracker ISA, he and Mrs B still had around 
£20,000 in deposit based savings. This was enough to repay their outstanding mortgage and 
most, if not all of Mr Bs car loan. In view of this I am satisfied that they had a considerable 
cash reserve even after Mr B had invested in the equity tracker ISA. 
The adviser recorded that she had discussed using the lump sum Mr B wanted to invest to 
reduce the mortgage he held jointly with Mrs B. The adviser noted:
You have confirmed you do not wish to reduce or pay off your mortgage with the lump sum 
you are investing. 
The CMC has said that the adviser should had done more to persuade Mr B to use the money to reduce the mortgage debt. I appreciate its position but, based on the information 
recorded at the time the advice was given, I dont agree that the adviser was required to do 
more than she did. She discussed the option with Mr B, she was not in a position to insist 
that Mr B should use the money to reduce the mortgage debt. 
Having reviewed the information available, I am satisfied that Mr B still held significant cash 
savings jointly with his wife, even after he had invested £3,000 in the equity tracker ISA with 
Nationwide. Based on the information recorded about his personal and financial 
circumstances at that time, I am satisfied that he had some investment experience as he 
was making regular contributions to a personal pension plan and held an endowment plan 
and shares jointly with Mrs B. 
In light of this I dont agree with the CMCs claim that Mr B didnt understand the level of risk 
involved in an equity tracker ISA, or that the investment was too high risk for him. Nor do I 
agree, based on the information recorded at the time, that Mr B did not have the capacity to 
take the level of investment risk recommended.
I am also mindful that Mr B held the investment until 2008, so there is nothing to suggest that 
Mr B needed access to this money for around eight years.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr B and his CMC feel that the most suitable 
advice would have been for Mr B to have used the money he invested in the equity tracker 
ISA to pay down the mortgage he held with Mrs B. But I am required to consider, based on 
the information Mr B provided at the time the advice was given  and any foreseeable 
changes to his circumstances - whether the advice given was suitable. Having carefully 
considered all the information available I cannot reasonably find that the advice was 
unsuitable.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman