DRN-4291433
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) cancelled her policy without telling her. 
Mrs K is represented in her complaint, but for ease Ill refer to her throughout. When I 
mention Covea I also mean the broker who was administering the policy on its behalf.
What happened
Mrs K had a motor insurance policy with Covea, which was taken out through a broker in 
January 2023.
Covea checked her details against an external database and found that Mrs K hadnt told it 
about a previous incident involving damage to her car. It says it emailed Mrs K twice about 
this. Mrs K denies receiving the emails, but she did get a welcome email and customer 
service questionnaire around this time.
Because Mrs K didnt respond to the emails, Covea cancelled the policy under its terms and 
conditions giving her seven days notice. It emailed Mrs K telling her it had done this, and 
wrote to her.
Mrs K received the letter confirming her policy had been cancelled. She complained to 
Covea about it cancelling her policy without telling her.
Covea waived the cancellation fee and refunded part of her policy. It said it hadnt placed a 
marker on databases saying it had cancelled her policy. 
Mrs K remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She asks for proof that 
Covea sent her the correspondence asking for more information. Covea wasnt able to 
supply these but its system reported that the correspondence was generated.
Our investigator looked into her complaint and thought it shouldnt be upheld. He said Covea 
had used two different methods to contact Mrs K which is in line with best practice, that on 
balance Covea had sent the correspondence and its actions were fair.
Mrs K didnt agree with the view and asked that her complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint and Ill explain why as I appreciate this 
will be disappointing to her.
In considering Mrs Ks complaint Ive taken a different approach to our investigator in 
thinking about a relevant piece of legislation about customers such as Mrs K and the 
information they need to disclose to insurers.
When looking at a complaint where there is a failure to disclose relevant information, I must 
first consider whether there has been a qualifying misrepresentation under the relevant law 
which is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
I cant see that Covea has considered CIDRA, as its policy wording clearly says that its 
entitled to cancel the policy where theres been a failure to correctly declare information. The 
relevant part of the wording is:
We (or your broker) may cancel your policy by sending you seven days written 
notice to your last known address if we (or your broker) have a good reason for doing 
so. Some examples of situations where we or your broker might do this include:
you providing us with incorrect information, and failing to put this right when 
we ask you to.
Ive read the policy, but I dont think it fair for Covea to ignore the statutory approach in 
favour of its own terms and conditions. So CIDRA will be my starting point.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a policy. The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Mrs K accepts she made an oversight in answering the question. Ive looked at the question 
asked of her and I think its fair that her answer was carelessly answered. So Mrs K failed to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider whether Mrs Ks misrepresentation was a qualifying one. In other 
words, what would Covea done differently had it received the correct information from Mrs K 
when she applied for the cover. It could have ignored the misrepresentation, charged a 
higher premium, or it may not have offered cover at all.
Importantly in Mrs Ks case, I dont think Coveas actions would have resulted in a different 
outcome. I say this because if Covea simply allowed the policy to continue unchanged, then 
its policy wording Ive mentioned above allows it to cancel Mrs Ks policy. This wording is 
common in the marketplace and its clear to understand. I think its use is fair.
If, however, Covea wouldnt have accepted Mrs Ks application had it known the correct 
information then the same result would have happened under CIDRA. In other words, her 
policy would have been cancelled under CIDRA rules.
The third possibility is that her premium was increased by Covea. But CIDRA allows for that 
and says, if no claim has been made under the policy, then Covea can cancel the policy 
rather than charge Mrs K the higher premium.
Taking all these into account, I think Coveas action in cancelling Mrs Ks policy was fair and 
reasonable and the outcome reached is the same whether or not Covea followed CIDRA or 
the path it did. Mrs K has focused on Coveas proof that the relevant letters and emails were sent to her. 
Ive looked to the evidence provided by Covea which is system-generated records of events 
like letters and emails being created. Mrs K has complained about the amount of time it took 
Covea to produce this evidence and its quality. Ive looked at the evidence provided by 
Covea and its in line with what Id expect to see, which is records of the dates and times of 
documents being sent out. As they seem to be standard (form) letters then the actual 
correspondence sent to Mrs K might not be stored, but its the record that they have been 
produced.
I take Mrs Ks point this might mean that the correspondence wasnt actually sent, but I can 
see that other communications were received by Mrs K around this time. So taking 
everything into account, I think Covea did reasonably contact Mrs K about her policy and told 
her it would be cancelled. Its followed best practice in using two methods to contact her. 
Having a policy cancelled by an insurer can have a significant effect on a policyholder and 
Mrs K has mentioned that she needs to tell insurers about this in future. In its final response 
to her, Covea said I can also clarify that the cancellation of the policy has not been classed 
as enforced, with no markers being applied against your name following the cancellation.
My understanding of this is that Coveas cancellation of her policy isnt recorded on 
databases and so Mrs K wouldnt need to tell insurers about the cancellation in the future. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Id ask that Covea write to Mrs K to confirm this point.
I think Coveas actions in cancelling Mrs Ks policy were fair and I reasonably think it told her 
about what it intended to do. It also waived the cancellation fee and provided Mrs K with a 
partial refund. So Im not going to ask it to do more.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman