DRN-3432742
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC is about the investment advice he was 
given in 1998.
What happened
Mr B met a Barclays adviser in March 1998. The adviser recommended that Mr B invest 
£6,000 in a Barclays Managed Growth Fund and £200 a month in a Barclays FTSE 100 
Fund. Mr B went ahead with both investments and made monthly payments into the FTSE 
Fund until April 1999. He surrendered both investments in 2002. 
Mr B complains that he was a first time investor and was advised to invest too much money 
at too high a level of risk. Barclays have said the advice they gave was suitable for Mr B.  
Our investigator thought Barclays advice was suitable and didnt think they had done 
anything wrong. Mr B disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays had a responsibility to make sure their advice to Mr B was suitable at the time it 
was given. Before making their recommendations, Barclays should have considered Mr Bs 
financial situation, his knowledge and experience of investing, and his investment objectives. 
That would include taking account of his attitude to risk, his purpose in investing, and how 
long he wanted to invest his money for. 
Ive seen a copy of the personal review document that the adviser completed as part of his 
discussions with Mr B. The adviser recorded that Mr B was 37, with no dependents and self-
employed. He had a monthly income of £2,000 and outgoings of £1,000, leaving him a net 
disposable income of £1,000 a month. Mr B owned his home with no mortgage and had no 
outstanding debts. 
Mr B had cash savings of £15,000 and had no plans to use any of the funds in the 
foreseeable future. Mr Bs investment objective was described as achieving capital growth 
over a period of five years or longer. His attitude to risk was recorded as medium.
The adviser recommended that Mr B invest £6,000 of his savings in a manged growth fund. 
That represented 40% of his savings, leaving Mr B with a cash reserve of £9,000. Mr B was 
also advised to invest £200 a month into a FTSE 100 fund. 
Mr B complains that as a first time investor he should not have been advised to expose over 
40% of his available capital, in addition to a monthly amount, to medium risk investments.
From the paperwork Ive seen, I think the adviser took account of Mr Bs financial situation 
and investment objectives before making his recommendations. And I think its likely that the 
adviser would also have discussed Mr Bs attitude to risk with him before recording it as 
medium. 
Although it appears Mr B was a first time investor, I dont think that means a medium risk 
investment was necessarily unsuitable for him. Mr B was looking to invest for at least five 
years and to achieve capital growth. He had no dependents, no outstanding debts and no 
significant expenditure planned. Mr B also had a reasonable level of disposable income and 
so I think he could bear the degree of fluctuation that a medium risk investment might bring. 
Mr B retained £9,000 in accessible cash savings for any unforeseen expenditure needs, 
representing 60% of his overall capital. The monthly investment in the FTSE fund 
represented just 20% of Mr Bs disposable income, which I think was affordable for him and 
meant that his cash reserves would continue to increase significantly each month. I think 
Mr B therefore had the capacity to absorb any losses he might incur on his investments. And 
I dont think I can fairly say he was advised to invest too high a proportion of his available 
funds.
Based on the evidence Ive seen and taking account of Mr Bs circumstances at the time I 
think the investments recommended by Barclays were a suitable way of meeting his 
objectives. I appreciate this will be disappointing decision for Mr B, but I wont be upholding 
his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman