DRN-3211437
The complaint
Ms B complains about her mortgage with Landmark Mortgages Limited. Ms B says 
Landmark has applied an unreasonably high rate of interest to her mortgage since taking it 
over and that its unfair that it wont offer alternative products or further lending.
Ms B would like Landmark to offer her a more competitive interest rate and compensate her 
for years of additional interest which she feels shes paid.
Ms Bs complaint has been made by a representative Mr H, on her behalf. 
What happened
In 2006 Ms B took out a mortgage with Northern Rock. The mortgage was for £93,000 on an 
interest only basis over a 25 year term. Ms B also borrowed around £27,000 as an 
unsecured Together loan stapled to the main mortgage. 
The mortgage and Together loan were on a fixed rate of 6.29% for the first five years.
In 2016 Ms Bs mortgage and loan were transferred to Landmark.
In July 2020 Ms B complained to Landmark, saying the interest rate thats been applied to 
her mortgage has been unfairly high since it was transferred to it. Ms B has said she cant 
move her mortgage to another lender because its in arrears and she wants Landmark to 
either reduce its standard variable rate or make new interest rate products available to its 
customers. Ms B says Landmarks decision not to do so has caused her financial hardship. 
Ms B says shes had to live with the worry that she may not be able to keep up with the 
interest payments, and she fears that she may lose her home. 
On 16 September 2020 Landmark gave its final response to Ms Bs complaint. It said it had 
applied interest in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage, and that Ms B was free 
to repay her mortgage or remortgage to another lender at any time and no Early Repayment 
Charge (ERC) would apply. 
In Landmarks response it also upheld Ms Bs concerns about two further relatively minor 
issues concerning call handling and administering a payment arrangement. Landmark 
upheld the part of Ms Bs complaint about its handling of calls about this mortgage on 22 
July and 13 August. Landmark said its agents conduct fell short of its expectations. It also 
upheld the part of the complaint about incorrectly setting up an arrangement to pay agreed 
on 22 July 2020. Landmark said it had been agreed that £5 would be paid towards the 
unsecured loan and £487.68 to the mortgage. However, Landmark had incorrectly set up an 
arrangement for £494.14 for the mortgage and a further £5 to the unsecured loan account. 
Landmark apologised for this mistake and any trouble and upset caused. Ms B hasnt 
referred to these more minor issues again in bringing her complaint to us, although I will 
consider these issues here for completeness. 
Overall Ms B was dissatisfied with Landmarks response and referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. 
In summary, he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought Landmark had 
operated the interest rate in line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage, and that 
Landmark wasnt offering new interest rate products to any of its customers. And so, by not 
offering Ms B a lower interest rate, it wasnt acting unfairly to Ms B. 
Ms Bs strongly disagreed with our investigators view. Ms B replied to say, in summary:
- she signed a mortgage contract with a high street lender that operated competitively 
in an open market;
- she had a reasonable expectation that this would continue and now finds herself 
paying more for her mortgage because its been transferred to a closed book lender;
- If she did move her mortgage to another lender, she would face an additional 8% 
interest rate premium on the Together loan and thats unfair;
- Landmarks SVR is outrageously higher for no other reason other than to better 
profit from their customer base (me!) who is trapped in the mortgage contract with 
them;
- Paying more for this mortgage than other mortgage borrowers has had a huge 
detrimental effect on her health and household finances.
Ms B has also more recently said that shes unhappy that previous requests to transfer the 
mortgage to a capital repayment basis and extend the term of the mortgage back to 25 years 
have been unfairly declined by Landmark. 
This is a separate matter that Landmark hasnt yet had the chance to respond to and hasnt 
been investigated as part of this complaint. Id like to make it clear that I havent considered 
this particular issue as part of my determination of this complaint. If Ms B would like to make 
a complaint about this, our investigator can help with this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I should say Im sorry to hear that Ms Bs had difficulties paying this mortgage and that 
its caused her health to suffer. I dont underestimate her strength of feeling on this matter 
and how important sorting out issues with this mortgage is for her.
At the heart of Ms Bs complaint is the position she now finds her mortgage in, and the lack 
of options she now faces. I can appreciate her frustration that her mortgage was taken out 
with a high street bank that offered competitive mortgage products and new lending. And 
yet, a little over a decade later, her mortgage was transferred to Landmark. Landmark has 
chosen not to offer new products or further lending to its customers and has opted to operate 
as a closed book. 
Ive looked at the mortgage documentation which set out how Ms Bs mortgage was 
intended to operate when it was sold. The mortgage offer says that the mortgage and 
Together loan would be on a fixed rate of 6.29% until 1 October 2011. And, after that time, it 
would revert to a variable rate which was guaranteed to be below Northern Rocks SVR, for 
the remainder of the mortgage term. 
Having looked at the rate that has applied to this mortgage and loan since its transfer to Landmark in 2016, the applicable interest rate has been below the SVR throughout this 
period, albeit by the smallest of margins. The interest rate of this mortgage and loan has 
been between 4.38% and 5.03% during the period of this complaint. While Landmarks SVR 
has been between 4.39% and 5.04% over the same period. 
Ms B has complained that the overall level of the SVR is too high and that this isnt a fair rate 
to apply to her mortgage. Ultimately Landmark can exercise its commercial discretion about 
the level at which it sets its SVR having taken into account a number of factors. I know that 
Ms B has cited average mortgage interest rates in her submissions, and these suggest that 
Landmarks SVR is relatively high. From my wider knowledge of the mortgage market, I 
would say that I expect the average mortgage rate quoted may take into account mortgages 
that are on interest rate products, such as fixed or discounted rates for example. And these 
are often, but not always, lower than lenders SVRs. 
When Landmarks SVR is compared to other closed book lenders with similar risk profiles, 
its SVR doesnt appear to be out of line with other comparable lenders. As such it isnt clear 
to me that its SVR has been set at a level which is unreasonable or unfair.
Typically, if Ms B was unhappy with the level of the variable rate that applied to her 
mortgage, she would be able to apply for a new interest rate product with her lender or 
remortgage elsewhere. Im aware there isnt an ERC that would prevent Ms B from moving 
this mortgage. However, Ms Bs said there are other practical barriers that mean she cant 
move her mortgage. The mortgage and Together loan arent up-to-date, and I can 
understand that this will impact her ability to move to another lender.
Im conscious that Landmark has taken steps to try and help with Ms Bs situation, such as 
waiving interest on the Together loan and accepting a nominal payment each month of £5 to 
help Ms B to prioritise reducing the arrears on the main mortgage loan. This sounds fair in 
the circumstances. However, despite this, I can see why Ms B is disappointed that Landmark 
hasnt decided to lower its SVR as this would be helpful to her and other customers who 
have been unable to remortgage elsewhere.
Because Ms B cant go elsewhere, and she doesnt consider that Landmarks SVR is a 
competitive interest rate, she has complained that Landmark isnt making new interest rate 
products available to its customers. Landmarks said its not an active lender, and it isnt 
trying to attract new customers through offering low rates. It says its taken a commercial 
decision in the interests of the financial management of its business to maintain all its 
customers on the SVR once their previous interest rate products expire. And to that extent, 
its not treating Ms B any differently to any of its other customers. 
Its common for borrowers to take a fixed or tracker rate product and then, at or shortly 
before its expiry, take another rate rather than revert to their lenders SVR. Sometimes they 
may take out a new product with their existing lender, or sometimes its with another lender. 
Ms B has said that she had a reasonable expectation that further products would be 
available to her on this mortgage in the future, and that its unfair that Landmark isnt offering 
this. 
Ive looked carefully at Ms Bs mortgage agreement. Theres nothing in the mortgage 
agreement that says shes entitled to a new rate  and thats also true of most other lenders 
mortgage agreements too. Theres also nothing in the regulators rules that requires 
Landmark to offer new interest rates. 
Thats not the end of the matter though  my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. I do that by taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, and good industry practice  but ultimately Im not constrained by them if I think fairness requires me to do something else. Ive thought carefully about whether its fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances that Landmark wont offer Ms B a new interest rate thats 
lower than its SVR.
Through no fault of her own, Ms B has ended up with a closed book lender that doesnt offer 
new rates. Landmark is her lender, and legitimately so. Its decided not to offer new interest 
rates to any customers, including Ms B. Under current law and regulations, thats a decision 
Landmark is entitled to take. 
But in this case, Ms Bs said shes concerned that she wont be able to move her mortgage 
to another lender because shes in arrears. Ms B seems to be focused on clearing her 
arrears and that should help to give her options to move this mortgage to another active 
lender that offers interest rate products in the future.
Ms B has said that shes worried about the 8% delinking premium that may apply if she 
found herself able to move her mortgage elsewhere, and yet she couldnt afford to refinance 
the Together loan. I can understand why this is an important consideration. I see that this 
would make the Together loan repayments much more expensive, especially when at 
present Ms B isnt paying any interest on the Together loan. This is a matter that Ms B will 
need to take into consideration when she looks to move her mortgage to another lender in 
the future. But I cant say that Landmark has acted unfairly by applying the additional 8% 
delinking interest premium in Ms Bs case, as this hasnt happened yet. 
I can understand why Ms B is worried about what her options are now. This is a challenging 
financial climate and Im not aware what Ms B currently considers her property to be worth. It 
is possible that Ms B may have various options open to her  and Id encourage her to 
explore what those options might be. 
Im aware that Landmark has made arrangements for its borrowers to get access to 
regulated mortgage advisers at no cost to them to explore whether they can move elsewhere 
to a lender that would offer new interest rates. It may be that Ms B will need to clear her 
arrears before this becomes an option but taking advice on this now might help Ms B to 
pursue a strategy to help her move her mortgage as quickly as possible and get access to 
more competitively priced interest rates again. There are aspects of Ms Bs unsecured 
borrowing with Landmark that I think merit specialist advice so Ms B fully understands what 
the consequences of moving her mortgage will mean for her.
There are a couple of other administrative issues that Ms B complained about in 2020. 
Landmark has apologised for its call handlers conduct in two calls in 2020. It has also said 
sorry for making mistakes in the setting up of a payment arrangement which led to Ms B 
paying around £10 more than had been arranged in the summer of 2020. Im pleased to see 
that Landmark apologised for this and said it would correct the amount to be paid in future 
months. I think this is reasonable to resolve these two matters and make no further award. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman