DRN-2742350
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Novaloans Ltd (trading as Cash4unow) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr J took two loans from Cash4unow between September 2018 and December 2018. A 
summary of his borrowing based on the information provided to us from the lender can be 
seen below.
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo. of Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedMaximum Monthly 
Repayment
1 20/09/2018 21/12/2018 4 £200.00 £71.29
2 24/12/2018 Outstanding 6 £450.00 £126.33
It appears that Mr J ran into some difficulties repaying his last loan. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Js complaint. She thought that the results of the credit 
checks completed by Cash4unow ought to have deterred it from lending to Mr J.  So, our 
adjudicator thought it was wrong form Cash4unow to have approved both of Mr Js loans. 
It appears that Mr J agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Cash4unow did not respond so I dont know the reasons why it disagrees, if this is the case.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided.
 
Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. 
The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint. 
When Mr J approached Cash4unow for his first loan, it asked Mr J to declare his monthly 
income and expenditure, and it completed a credit check. Mr J declared he was working full 
time, receiving a monthly income of £1,700. And that his monthly expenditure came to £865. 
This wouldve left Mr J with a disposable income of £835 from which to meet his contractual 
repayments, which were no more than £71.29. So, I think the repayments appeared 
affordable based on the information Mr J declared to Cash4unow about his financial 
circumstances.
But the results of the credit check which Cash4unow carried out suggested that the 
information that Mr J had declared to the lender was not a true reflection of his actual 
circumstances. Cash4unow were presented with information showing Mr J had two active 
County Court Judgements with balances totalling £3,982 at the time of his loan application. 
Whilst this information, on its own, may not have deterred Cash4unow from lending to Mr J, 
it also had other adverse information which it needed to take into consideration.
The results of the credit checks also showed Mr J had 20 credit searches conducted within 
12 months  and 9 of these searches had been conducted within the previous three months. 
Furthermore, Mr J had opened 17 new accounts within the previous six months of which 
nine of the accounts were short-term loan accounts. And five of the short-term loans he was 
granted, had been granted within the previous three months before his application with 
Cash4unow. 
The credit check results suggested that Mr J was still actively and repeatedly looking for 
further credit  most likely further short-term loans due to the high account turnover. He had 
a significantly high number of credit searches conducted on his credit file which suggested 
he was urgently looking for further help with his finances. The fact that Mr J had opened 17 new accounts within six months also meant he was opening on average around three 
accounts per month. This, again, suggested Mr J was most likely reliant on short-term 
lending, as I find it difficult to understand why he would need to request several new 
accounts each month if that werent the case.
Cash4unow would have also been aware that Mr Js monthly expenditure was much more 
than what he declared. I say this because the credit check results showed Mr J had monthly 
repayments totalling £803 a month on his fixed term accounts. This took up nearly half of his 
declared monthly income without even considering the other information he declared about 
his rent, food and some utility bills etc. 
Having considered Mr Js overall financial circumstances, I think Cash4unow ought to have 
known that he was having problems managing his money. Cash4unow couldnt simply just 
ignore the information it gathered from the credit checks. So, I think Cash4unow were wrong 
to approve Mr Js first loan as the loan repayments were unlikely to be sustainable for him.
 
Mr J went on to apply for his second loan three days after repaying loan 1. Cash4unow 
completed the same checks as it had for his first loan. Whilst Mr J provided information to 
Cash4unow suggesting he could meet the higher repayments for loan 2, the information 
showing on the credit checks suggested Mr Js finances had not improved, but appeared to 
have deteriorated. 
Mr J now had an increased loan balance outstanding. His loan balance had increased from 
£4,313 to £7,189 in a little over three months. Its possible that some of this outstanding 
balance included Mr Js previous loan with Cash4unow  as loan 1 had only recently been 
repaid. But this would have only counted for a small portion of the balance. The remaining 
balance was due to Mr J taking out further loans with other lenders. 
The credit check also showed Mr J was continuing to search for further credit. He had 35 
credit searches conducted on his account within the previous 12 months prior to loan 2  
and 17 of these searches had occurred within the previous three months of his loan 
application with Cash4unow. This suggests Mr J was still actively trying to secure further 
credit to help him with his finances. And this is further exemplified by the fact that Mr J had 
taken out 25 new accounts within the previous six months. Again, given the number of new 
accounts a high percentage of these were likely to be short term lenders. 
So there appeared to be no improvement in Mr Js financial position, indeed the credit check 
results showed Cash4unow that Mr Js situation was worsening. As a result, I think 
Cash4unow were wrong to approve both of Mr Js loans.
Additional information to consider
Mr J has raised several other complaint points alongside his complaint about irresponsible 
lending. I can see our adjudicator responded to Mr J about some of these issues. As Mr J 
has not made any further comments following our adjudicators response, Ive considered he 
has accepted our adjudicators opinion.
But Mr J has said that Cash4unow were rude to him when he tried to complain. Mr J further 
feels Cash4unow tried to blackmail him by saying it would withdraw any offers if he took his 
complaint to our service.
In its final response letter, Cash4unow explained that it was not upholding Mr Js complaint. 
But it made an offer to reduce his outstanding balance for loan 2 down to £700. This 
appeared to have been a goodwill gesture and not because the lender believed it shouldnt 
have lent to Mr J. The final response letter clearly states that the lender would revoke its offer if Mr J asked our service to investigate his complaint. So, I cannot conclude that 
Cash4unow tried to blackmail Mr J by explaining what he could do if he was unhappy with 
its response. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cash4unow should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided Mr Js loans, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr J may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, Mr J may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cash4unows liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
If Cash4unowu have sold the outstanding debt you should buy these back if you are able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Cash4unow are not able to buy the debt back then 
it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Cash4unow should refund all interest, fees and charges Mr J paid on loan 1
Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr J from the
date Mr J originally made his payment, to the date the complaint is settled.
Cash4unow should remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the 
outstanding loan balance on loan 2.
Cash4unow should rework the account so that Mr J only has to repay the principal
borrowed for loan 2. It should treat any repayments made by Mr J (and the third party 
if applicable) as if it went towards the principal balance.
If and when Mr J has repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment
should be refunded to him. To this overpayment, 8% simple a year interest should
be added from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding principal balance remains, 
Cash4unow can use any refund from loan 1 to offset the balance. If a balance still 
remains it should try and come to an affordable arrangement with Mr J to repay the 
balance. But Id remind Cash4unow of its obligation to treat him fairly.
Cash4unow should remove any adverse information recorded about these loans from 
Mr Js credit file.  *HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Cash4unow should 
give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Js complaint.
Novaloans Ltd (trading as Cash4unow) should put things as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman