DRN-1083824
Complaint
Ms D complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to her alongside a mortgage in 1991. 
I know that when PPI was sold to Ms D, BOS was trading as the Leeds Permanent Building 
Society. However, BOS is responsible for complaints like this. To keep things simple, Ill 
refer to BOS for the rest of this decision. 
I can also see that Ms D has brought two complaints to us about BOS. To be clear, this 
decision is only about the cover that was sold in 1991. 
Background
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms D disagreed with that view. 
She said that she would have had sufficient means in place if she couldnt work and so she 
didnt need the PPI. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case. 
I am sorry to disappoint Ms D, but I havent upheld this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The parties agree that the cover was sold during a meeting. I cant know what was said 
during that meeting. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at 
what Ms D told us about it. And Ive considered some of BOS electronic records that are 
available from the time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Ms D would have known the cover was optional 
and she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. I can see that in her PPI questionnaire, 
Ms D said that she was advised she should take it out in conjunction with her mortgage. On 
balance and after taking account of what Ms D told us, it doesnt appear she was misled into 
thinking she didnt have a choice about buying PPI.
Ive treated this as an advised sale because thats a higher test for BOS to satisfy. By 
advising Ms D to buy PPI, BOS had to make sure the cover was suitable for her needs. To 
help me decide whether the cover was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of 
the cover. And Ive also thought about what Ms D told us about her personal circumstances 
at the time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the PPI policy, Ms Ds mortgage repayments 
would have been covered for up to 12 months for each claim. Ms D told us that she had enough means already in place and so didnt need the cover. I can see from the PPI 
questionnaire that at the point she bought this policy, Ms D had worked for her large 
government employer for seven years. She told us that at that point, she would have 
received three months full pay and three months half pay if she was off sick. So it follows 
that the PPI would have paid out for considerably longer than her full sick pay would have 
lasted. 
Ive taken account of what Ms D told us about her savings. But taking account of her salary 
at the time, I dont think those savings would have covered her salary for a significant period. 
I can also see that she said she would have had some support from family members if she 
was out of work. I dont doubt that it would have been the intention of those family members 
to assist in such a situation. But circumstances can change and theres no guarantee that 
help would have been available to Ms D as and when she needed it. 
Ms D also told us that she had an endowment policy alongside her mortgage. Just to be 
clear, the endowment policy would not have covered her mortgage repayments if she was 
off sick from work or if she lost her job. I think it is important for me to stress that Ms Ds 
mortgage was secured on her home and the consequences of not being able to keep up her 
repayments could have been severe.  
Ms D told us that she was in good health at the time the PPI was sold. So I dont think shed 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent 
seen anything unusual about her circumstances that would have stopped her from being 
able to make a successful claim if she needed to. Taking account of all the evidence before 
me, Im satisfied that the PPI was suitable for her needs. 
Even so, BOS still had to make sure it gave Ms D enough information about the PPI so she 
could decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information had to be 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
I accept its possible that BOS didnt tell Ms D everything it should have done about the 
cover. But Ive set out above how I think the PPI could have been useful for Ms D at what 
would have no doubt been a very stressful time for her if she wasnt working. Ive set out why 
I think Ms D probably chose to buy PPI. So taking all of this into account, I dont think shed 
have acted differently if BOS had told her everything it should have done. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Ms D. But it follows that for the reasons set out 
above, I havent upheld her complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc. 
 
 
 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2019.Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman