DRN-4418956
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that Nationwide Building Society irresponsibly provided him with three 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Nationwide provided Mr B with the following loans:
Loan Date of loan Capital 
amountTerm 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentsTotal repayable 
value
Loan 1 May 2019 £1,000 12 £94 (approx.) £1,123 (approx.)
Loan 2 June 2019 £1,000 12 £94 (approx.) £1,123 (approx.)
Loan 3 January 2020 £5,000 30 £177 (approx.) £5,300 (approx.)
In April 2022 Mr B referred a complaint to Nationwide about unaffordable lending. He said 
had it completed reasonable and proportionate checks it would have identified that all three 
of these loans were unaffordable for him.
Mr B brought his case to our service for review when Nationwide didnt uphold his complaint 
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint in full. He concluded Nationwide hadnt completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks at any of the lending decisions and that it had made 
unfair lending decisions. 
Nationwide didnt agree with our investigators outcome. It maintained its argument that its 
checks were reasonable and proportionate and that it made fair lending decisions when 
providing Mr B with all three loans. 
I recently issued a provisional decision where I set out, with reasons, my initial thoughts on 
this case and what I was intending to decide.
The following is an extract from my provisional decision:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. 
Nationwide needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it lent responsibly to Mr B. The 
relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Nationwide provided the lending 
required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to 
assess Mr Bs ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term, without causing 
him financial difficulties or harm.
There isnt a set list of checks Nationwide needed to carry out, but the checks should be 
proportionate, considering things like the type, amount, duration, and total cost of the credit, 
as well as Mr Bs individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for Nationwide to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks when going on to provide the lending. 
This includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without the need to borrow further.
Loan one
Nationwide says it verified Mr Bs income and rent payments using a combination of 
information he declared, internal data it already held, and credit file data it obtained. 
Nationwide says it used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate Mr Bs monthly 
expenditure, and it completed a credit check to understand Mr Bs existing credit 
commitments and financial history. 
Having carefully considered all of the evidence and arguments; Im currently persuaded that 
Nationwides checks at loan one were reasonable and proportionate. 
I say this because Nationwide verified Mr Bs declared income using a number of measures 
as set out above. It was able to reasonably satisfy itself that the income Mr B declared as 
£2,200 at loan one was broadly in line with the information it obtained through these checks.
Nationwide used ONS data to calculate Mr Bs non-discretionary monthly spending. The use 
of ONS data is an industry recognised practice of obtaining an understanding of an 
individuals regular monthly expenditure; and is based on average data from individuals with 
similar circumstances. Nationwide took into account around £667 non-discretionary 
expenditure for loan one and factored in Mr Bs declared £300 payments for his rent.
It then completed a credit check and identified Mr B had existing monthly credit 
commitments totalling around £485. There were no signs of adverse information such as a 
bankruptcy, defaults, CCJs or arrears. 
Nationwide therefore concluded Mr B was left with a disposable income of around £750 per 
month; and reasonably concluded this was sufficient to cover the loan payments of around 
£94, while also leaving Mr B with a reasonable surplus for other discretionary spending and 
any unexpected costs that may occur. 
Reviewing the checks Nationwide completed and the information it obtained, I dont consider 
there was anything which ought reasonably to have caused it concern; or anything which 
appeared to contradict any of the information it had obtained from various sources. 
Therefore, I dont consider, based on this information and the relatively modest terms of the 
lending being provided, that there was anything that ought reasonably to have led 
Nationwide to determine its checks werent proportionate and that more detailed checks 
were required at this lending event. 
So, based on the information Nationwide obtained from these proportionate checks, I 
consider loan one appeared sustainably affordable for Mr B across its term. And it therefore 
follows I consider Nationwide made a fair lending decision when approving loan one.
Loans two and three
Nationwide has confirmed it completed the same checks for loans two and three as it did for 
loan one. These checks identified Mr B would be left with around £650 and £780 which it considered a 
reasonable level to service the monthly loan commitments of around £94 and £177; and 
leave Mr B with a sufficient buffer for other discretionary spending. 
Ive carefully considered Nationwides checks at loans two and three; and having done so 
Im currently persuaded to say they werent proportionate in the individual circumstances. 
I say this because I consider Mr Bs financial behaviours should reasonably have caused 
Nationwide concern. Just two months before Mr B applied for loan two, Nationwide had 
provided Mr B with loan one which was repayable over a 12-month term; but which had 
already been repaid in full and settled. And within just three days of repaying loan one Mr B 
was returning to Nationwide to obtain further lending under the same terms. This doesnt 
suggest that Mr B was someone who was managing their finances well.
Nationwide should also have been able to identify through the internal data and bureau 
checks that it says it completed that Mr B was persistently using the overdraft limit on his 
Nationwide bank account in the months leading up to loan two. Although a relatively modest 
limit of £200, in March and April 2019 the account didnt enter a credit balance; and on 
occasions went above the agreed limit for several days in each month before Mr B made 
small transfers to bring the account just back within the limit.
So, I consider it should have caused Nationwide concern that Mr B wasnt able to bring his 
account into a credit position in the months leading up to loan two; or keep it within its 
relatively modest limit even though its calculations suggested he would be left with around 
£650 disposable income at the point of loan two. 
I consider proportionate checks ought to have led to Nationwide obtaining a better 
understanding of Mr Bs financial situation, which should have at least included it fully 
reviewing the management of his Nationwide bank account. Had Nationwide undertaken this 
review it would have identified that most transactions going through Mr Bs Nationwide bank 
account were to online gambling companies. So, it would have identified that Mr B was 
solely using the credit Nationwide had provided by way of an overdraft facility  and loan one 
 to gamble. 
In the three months leading up to loan two Mr B made over 80 transactions to online 
gambling companies. These totalled over £4,100 and significantly increased after loan one 
was approved. These transactions were generally spread across the months, and in May 
2019 there were multiple examples of days where Mr B would make more than five online 
gambling transactions a day. On one occasion Mr B made eight transactions in one day 
totalling £800. Given Nationwide was satisfied Mr Bs income was around £2,200 per month 
this means in a single day Mr B had gambled approximately a third of his monthly income. 
As this activity was taking place on Mr Bs Nationwide bank account, it would have had the 
benefit of being able to review this information live; and it would have been able to have 
identified that this pattern continued into June 2019 before loan two was approved. 
Im therefore satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks would have led Nationwide to 
identify the information Ive found above; and to have reasonably concluded Mr B wasnt a 
suitable candidate to lend to. So, it follows in this instance I dont consider Nationwide made 
a fair lending decision when approving loan two.
For the reasons Ive already set out above it follows that I dont consider Nationwides 
checks were reasonable or proportionate at loan three either; or that it went on to make a fair 
lending decision when providing loan three. I say this because the pattern of gambling continued after loan two. Although it did reduce 
and ultimately appear to stop over the coming months, Mr Bs management of his 
Nationwide bank account was consistent throughout; heavy utilisation of the overdraft limit 
with the balance going above the agreed limit. This was the case between July to December 
2019 where the account didnt at any point enter a credit balance position and in each month 
the balance went above the agreed limit for days at a time. This was the case even with 
Nationwide increasing Mr Bs overdraft limit to £800 in July 2019.
Loan two for £1,000 credited Mr Bs Nationwide account on 28 June 2019 and by 1 July 
2019 the account was already back within its overdraft limit; after Mr B had made nine 
transactions to online gambling companies totalling £800. 
Ive also seen that Nationwide wrote to Mr B in November 2019, setting out that his bank 
account balance had gone over the recently increased £800 overdraft limit; and requested 
Mr B to bring the balance back within the approved facility limit. While it appears it was only 
in November 2019 that Nationwide sent this correspondence, Ive seen that Mr Bs bank 
account balance had gone above its agreed limit in each of the six months leading up to loan 
three; on multiple occasions in some months and for days or weeks at a time.
So, I consider this further demonstrates that Nationwide ought to, and indeed did, have 
concerns about Mr Bs management of his accounts; and therefore, that proportionate 
checks would have included a more detailed review of Mr Bs financial situation. It also 
follows that these checks would have indicated Mr B wasnt a suitable candidate to lent to, 
and as such Im satisfied it didnt go on to make a fair lending decision when providing Mr B 
with loan three.
Nationwide responded accepting my provisional decision. Mr B disagreed. He presented 
further points to support his argument that Nationwide shouldnt have provided loan one; and 
his arguments for this heavily focused on a complaint hed raised about his overdraft which 
our service upheld from May 2017. Mr B said as we had concluded the overdraft limit 
increases from May 2017 were irresponsibly lent, it followed that loan one advanced in May 
2019 was also irresponsibly lent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not seen anything which leads me to depart from the conclusions I 
reached within my recent provisional decision. I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr B 
given his strength of feeling on the matter, but Id like to ensure him Ive very carefully 
considered the further points hes raised in response to my provisional decision. 
While our service has found that Nationwide irresponsibly provided Mr B with overdraft limit 
increases from May 2017 onwards, the latest increase before loan one was the increase in 
May 2017. Nationwide reduced Mr Bs overdraft limit after May 2017, with the last decrease 
before loan one being in February 2018. So, I consider that a reasonable period of time had 
passed between the last change to Mr Bs overdraft limit and loan one being approved for 
there to have reasonably been a change in his circumstances. 
While I appreciate Mr B has said his circumstances hadnt changed within that period of 
time, I dont consider it unreasonable for Nationwide to have relied on the checks it 
completed at loan one, rather than conducting more detailed checks as Mr B suggests it 
should have.As such, Im satisfied Nationwides checks at loan one were proportionate and it went on to 
make a fair lending decision when providing loan one. 
As both parties have accepted my findings in relation to loans two and three, I see no reason 
to depart from these as set out within my provisional decision. 
So, in summary Nationwide shouldnt have provided Mr B with loans two and three and it 
therefore follows it needs to take action to fairly resolve this complaint.
Putting things right
Mr Bs had the benefit of loans two and three, so I consider its fair that he repays the capital 
amounts lent. But Mr B has paid interest on loans that shouldnt have been provided. So, 
Mr B has lost out and Nationwide Building Society need to put things right by taking the 
following action:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loans two and three from the outset. 
Any payments made by Mr B should then be deducted from the new starting 
balances. 
a. If the payments Mr B has made total more than the amount he was originally 
lent, then any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to 
him, together with 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, 
from the date they were paid by Mr B to the date the complaint is settled.
b. If after the adjustments have been made there is still a balance to pay 
Nationwide Building Society should discuss arranging a suitable/affordable 
payment arrangement with Mr B for the remaining balance.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file as a result of loans 
two and three once any outstanding balance has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide Building Society to deduct tax from this 
interest. Nationwide Building Society should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax 
its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my recent provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Bs 
complaint about Nationwide Building Society and require it to take the above action in 
resolution of the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman