DRN-4292643
The complaint
Miss N complains Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited mis-sold her a 
roadside assistance policy.
What happened
In April 2023 Miss Ns car broke down. She called AA and was sold a roadside assistance 
policy. She was charged a £150 emergency joining fee alongside an annual premium of £82. 
An operative attended the breakdown. The vehicle couldnt be repaired at the roadside. It 
was taken to a garage local to the breakdown location. Miss N then requested her car be 
recovered to her home. That wasnt covered by her policy. She was told there would be an 
additional cost for that service.  
Miss N was unhappy with the additional cost. She cancelled the policy. She complained to 
AA that if she had been told of the additional cost for recovering her vehicle to her home she 
wouldnt have bought the policy. 
AA didnt accept it had done anything wrong. It said during the sales call the emergency 
joining fee had been explained, that Miss N had been told if her vehicle couldnt be fixed at 
the roadside it would be taken to the nearest local repairer and that if she needed to go 
further there would be an additional cost. Miss N didnt accept that, so came to this service. 
To resolve her complaint she would like to be refunded the £150 emergency joining fee. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend AA refund the £150 emergency joining fee. She felt it had 
been explained to Miss N that there would be an additional cost to take her vehicle further 
than the local garage. Miss N didnt accept that, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Miss N and AA have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to be key 
or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered everything
provided.
Miss N was told in her initial call to AA that the main intention of the cover was to fix her car 
at the roadside. It was explained that if that wasnt possible her car would be taken to a 
garage in the area where the breakdown happened. In addition she was told during that call 
that if she did need to go further there would be an additional cost. So Im satisfied she knew 
there would be a further charge to get her car home. 
Miss N says she wasnt told how much the home recovery fee was. But she didnt explain, 
during the call, a need or intention for the car to be taken to a different location to the local 
garage. So I wouldnt expect AA to have quoted her the specific cost for taking her vehicle to 
a location of her choice.  
I note Miss Ns point that she wasnt told about the further charge during a second call to AA. 
It was in this latter call that she agreed to take the cover. However, she was already made 
aware of the additional charge only an hour or so earlier. So Im satisfied she was aware of 
it. And in the second call the benefits of the policy were set out again. She was told it would 
cover an attempt to fix the car at the roadside  and where that isnt possible the car would 
be taken to the nearest repairer. 
Im satisfied AA gave Miss N clear, fair and not misleading information. It explained the 
benefit provided by the policy. It was explained a request to go further than a local garage 
would involve additional cost.  So I dont agree the policy was mis-sold. That means Im not 
going to require AA to refund the emergency joining fee.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Automobile Association Insurance Services 
Limited to refund the £150 emergency joining fee. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman