DRN-3359019
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained that when Mr S withdrew cash from their account with Santander 
UK plc, the money was £720 short.
What happened
On 16 June 2020, Mr S went to a Santander branch and withdrew £20,000 in cash. This was 
in four sealed bags, each signed as containing £5,000. 
On 8 May 2021, Mr S rang Santander. He said that when hed taken out the money, the 
branch cashier had handed over the clear sealed plastic bags and had asked if he was 
happy to receive the sealed bags which had been checked. He said hed taken their word for 
it, and had taken them home, gave one £5,000 bag to a relative, and had put the other three 
bags in the loft. He said theyd only just opened them, and had found that one of the bags 
only contained £4,280, so it was £720 short. He said he knew it was a year later, but it had 
only just come to light, and hed kept all the bags with the signatures on.
Santander contacted the branch. The branch replied that the tills had balanced on 16 June 
2020, and all that week. It said that bags were double counted by two members of staff who 
then signed them. It also said that customers were given the option of having the bags 
opened and counted in front of them.
So Santander didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said that as there were no till discrepancies, 
it couldnt reimburse Mr and Mrs S for the missing money.
Mr and Mrs S werent satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. She explained that she had no 
evidence about whether or not Mr S had been asked if he wanted the money counted out in 
front of him. She only had confirmation that this was standard practice  but she understood 
that, for a large sum of money, a customer might not want the money counted out in front of 
other customers.
The investigator also asked Santander for evidence that the tills had balanced, and this 
showed there had been no till differences on 16 June 2020 or any time that week. Branch 
practice was to weigh the sealed bags before putting them in the vault, but this CCTV 
evidence was only kept for three months. The investigator said she thought it was unlikely 
the money could have gone missing in the branch without any trace  because there were 
set processes in place for large amounts of money, and it was a lot of money to go missing 
unnoticed before the bags had been sealed. She said she empathised with Mr and Mrs S, 
but couldnt fairly say Santander had made an error.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. Mr S said that the way hed been treated was a disgrace. He said 
the only thing that would be concrete evidence was CCTV of the bags being weighed, and it 
was convenient for Santander that it no longer had that evidence. He said hed clearly been 
wronged, and would be going to the papers and media as well as closing his account once 
hed exposed Santander for trying to rip him off. He said he wasnt making it up, and 
wouldnt drop it until justice was done. He said it was the principle of trusting a bank to hold 
money and give the right amounts when you needed it.
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr and Mrs S are so upset about their complaint, as £720 is a 
considerable amount of money. Mr S has also made it clear that he feels strongly about the 
principle of being given the right amount. 
As I wasnt present at the time, I cant say for certain what was said between Mr S and the 
cashier. Mr S says he wasnt given the opportunity to have the cash counted, whereas 
Santander says the standard procedure was to ask the customer if they wanted the bags 
opened and counted in front of them. But even if the cashier failed to offer this option to Mr 
S, this isnt the key issue in the complaint, because he could have counted it himself 
immediately he got home with the money. What matters is how much was really in the 
disputed bag at the time.
Santanders process was to record on CCTV the bags of sealed notes being weighed, to 
check that the right amount was in them. Id also expect this to have shown any difference in 
size of the bags  because a bag containing £4,280 in notes would be noticeably smaller 
than others containing £5,000.
So CCTV of the bags being weighed would have been key evidence, but its only kept for 
three months. If Mr S had reported the difference within that time, the CCTV could have 
been checked. But it was nearly a year later when Mr S raised the dispute. Mr S has said it 
was convenient for Santander that the CCTV was no longer available when he complained. I 
do understand how strongly he feels. But I think its likely that most complaints about the 
amount of cash paid out in a branch would be raised within three months, so it doesnt seem 
unreasonable that Santander no longer had the CCTV evidence a year later.
Ive also checked the branchs record of cash differences at the tills, and there are none for 
21 June 2020, or for any time that week. Ive also taken into account the fact that two 
employees double-counted the cash and signed the bags.
Taking all these factors into account, theres no evidence to show that Santander made 
errors and gave Mr S one sealed bag which contained £720 less than the other bags. So I 
cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 Belinda Knight
Ombudsman