DRN-4348188
The complaint
Mr C complains Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd didnt carry out due diligence when 
purchasing his debt from another company.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision. 
In January 2018 Mr C took out a short-term loan for £200 with a lender Ill refer to as U  U 
have since gone into administration. The loan wasnt repaid, and ultimately Lantern 
purchased the debt and asked Mr C to repay it. Mr C didnt feel as though Lantern did proper 
checks when buying his debt and has evidence to prove it. Mr C says the relevant evidence 
shows U found one default, but at the time of the application, he had four defaults.
Lantern replied and said they held two accounts for Mr C. One from U, and another relating 
to a different lender. Due to points raised by Mr C, Lantern said theyd written that debt off 
with the other lender. In respect of the debt with U, Lantern said theyd not done anything 
wrong in contacting Mr C for repayment of the debt. Lantern also said they complete 
thorough due diligence on all lenders prior to purchase. Treating customers fairly is at the 
heart of our organisation and Lantern are committed to purchasing accounts where the 
original lending was completed in a fair and responsible way and that affordability checks are 
as we would expect and align with Lanterns values.
Unhappy with this, Mr C asked us to look into things and provided some information  
including a complaint hed made to U about irresponsible lending. The response from U 
mentioned there had only been one default in the previous 12 months, no CCJs nor any 
outstanding balance with other lenders and had only opened two accounts in the previous 
six months. Mr C also specifically highlighted the paragraph from Lanterns response to him, 
where they said they complete thorough due diligence on all lenders prior to purchase.
One of our Investigators looked into things, but found overall Lantern hadnt done anything 
wrong, so didnt uphold the complaint against them. 
Mr C didnt agree, in summary he said:
Hes proven there were four defaults on his credit file but U only mentioned one  
and no one is prepared to acknowledge this is wrong.
He felt Lantern needed to be held accountable for their statement which says they 
complete thorough due diligence on all lenders prior to purchase  as the evidence 
he has suggests this statement is untrue and misleading.
Mr C has explained that had Lantern not told him theyd done their due diligence, then hed 
have checked what they said, and contacted the FCA. He says Lantern telling him they have 
checked has led to him wasting numerous hours of his time. Because Mr C didnt agree with 
our Investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain upfront I cant decide whether U did or didnt irresponsibly 
lend to Mr C. From the information hes provided, he raised a complaint about that where U 
said they hadnt irresponsibly lent. 
Ive seen Mr Cs comments that hes proven this was based on incorrect information  and 
that U talked about only one default, when he had four and says this is enough to prove they 
got it wrong. But what U actually said in their response was Mr C had only had one default in 
the last 12 months. The evidence Mr C has provided of the defaults pre-date the 12-month 
timeframe U have mentioned. So, although I cant investigate a complaint against U, I can 
see this has been a concern of Mr Cs and hope providing this information helps. Mr C has 
also mentioned holding numerous short-term balances at the time which contradicts what U 
said  but I dont have the information to try and help on this point.
Ive read all of Mr Cs comments about why he thinks the loan he took out with U was 
irresponsibly lent, but I cant make any finding on this point. U is a separate company and in 
this complaint Im only able to consider the actions of Lantern.
Similarly, Ive seen Mr Cs concerns about how the short-term loan industry, and the debt 
industry, work. But as I can see our Investigator explained, that would be a matter for the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
So, turning to Lanterns actions. 
Here, as Ive explained above, theyre not responsible for selling the loan, so we cant 
consider an irresponsible lending complaint against them. I can see our Investigator has 
explained that, and from my review of his responses I think Mr C has understood that  even 
if fundamentally he disagrees the wider financial system is operating fairly.
With that in mind, whats left for me to consider is whether Lantern have misled Mr C as hes 
said they have by stating they:
complete thorough due diligence on all lenders prior to purchase. Treating customers fairly 
is at the heart of our organisation and Lantern are committed to purchasing accounts where 
the original lending was completed in a fair and responsible way and that affordability checks 
are as we would expect and align with Lanterns values.
In reviewing this complaint, I thought this was one of Mr Cs key points. So, to address it, I 
arranged for us to ask Lantern what due diligence they did when purchasing Mr Cs two 
accounts (U  and the account written off).
Lantern told us they do some sample checks of accounts to ensure relevant notices have 
been sent. But when asked, havent provided a response about whether any specific checks 
were carried out on Mr Cs accounts.
In the absence of information and given Lantern have had plenty of opportunity to provide a 
full and detailed response, I need to move forward with the case.
I think its clear the information Lantern gave Mr C has caused him considerable distress. He 
believes very strongly the accounts were irresponsibly lent  but Lantern effectively told him 
they hadnt been. Yet when questioned, Lantern have failed to back up their statement.Given that, Im currently planning to require Lantern to pay Mr C £200 compensation for the 
distress hes been caused by this seemingly incorrect statement.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr C replied and Ive summarised what I consider to be his key points below:
Hed like to know if the £200 compensation is taken off the balance owing, or if that 
can be paid to him directly and Lantern can still pursue him for the debt
Hes moved a few times since Lantern acquired his debt and he gave his current 
address
He has no intention of repaying the debt as he believes its unenforceable, and is 
concerned about how Lantern will contact him if the debt remains payable due to his 
personal circumstances
Lantern provided more detail about how their checks are completed, but as part of that 
confirmed no checks were carried out on Mr Cs accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lantern have eventually provided the information I asked for. I appreciate them sharing their 
information on the checks they do, and theyve explicitly confirmed Mr Cs accounts werent 
part of any checks they did.
A big part of Mr Cs complaint was the loans had been lent irresponsibly to him. So, Id have 
expected either for the accounts to have been checked as part of the sample checking, or 
Lantern to explain they do sample checking but that didnt include his accounts  so they 
couldnt say whether they had been irresponsibly lent or not. And then itd have been helpful 
had they sent out why they were entitled to ask for repayment regardless of whether the 
loans had been irresponsibly lent or not.
Instead, they told Mr C they only purchased accounts which hadnt been irresponsibly lent, 
without really addressing the points Mr C had raised about why he felt they had been 
irresponsibly lent.
So, overall, Im going to continue to uphold this complaint and remain of the opinion £200 
compensation is fair.
In respect of that, this amount will be paid directly to Mr C for the distress Lantern have 
caused him due to their poor communications. In terms of how this is paid usually financial 
businesses will transfer the money rather than sending a cheque, but Ill ask our Investigator 
to speak to Mr C regarding this as Ive noted his comments Lantern may not have his up to 
date address.
Finally, in respect of the debt, if Mr C chooses not to enter into a repayment plan with 
Lantern I think its very likely theyd continue to contact him and ask for repayment of it. 
Lantern arent responsible for the lending of the money, but they are entitled to expect 
repayment of it. Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Lanterns contacts may cause Mr C, as I 
can imagine that wouldnt be very pleasant. But Ive simply no grounds on which to tell 
Lantern theyre not allowed to ask for repayment of a debt Mr C currently owes.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this case and require Lantern Debt Recovery 
Services Ltd to pay Mr C £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman