DRN-3466199
The complaint
Mr G complains that Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (Virgin Mobile) has unfairly 
pursued him for payment relating to a fix sum loan.
What happened
Mr G purchased a mobile phone using a fixed sum loan provided by Virgin Mobile in January 
2021. Virgin Mobile accepts that the mobile phone went missing in the post. At the same 
time that Virgin Mobile arranged a replacement, Mr G also ordered a replacement, resulting 
in a second fixed sum loan, and two mobile phones being sent to him. 
Mr G subsequently told Virgin Mobile that hed received only one of the two replacements it 
said it had sent. Virgin Mobile said that the courier it had used told it both had been 
delivered. Mr G raised a complaint with Virgin Mobile in May 2021. And he subsequently 
referred the matter to this service in August 2021, after he was given referral rights to do so 
by Virgin Mobile. 
In its submission to this service Virgin Mobile said it no longer has evidence relating to the 
delivery of the replacement mobile phones, so it offered to unwind one of the loan 
agreements and amend Mr Gs credit file to reflect this. It noted that Mr G had accepted 
receipt of one mobile phone, and would remain responsible for the loan in relation to this.
Our investigator considered this was fair given the circumstances. Mr G disagreed, he said 
that Virgin Mobile ought to pay him compensation for the trouble and upset hed been 
caused by Virgin Mobiles handling of the situation. Particularly due to the time it took given 
the available evidence. 
Our investigator didnt think that Virgin Media had done anything wrong nor reached an 
unreasonable outcome based on what it had been told by its courier. They maintained that 
Virgin Mobiles offer was fair based on there now being insufficient evidence of delivery.
The case has been passed to me to decide what should happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint relates to Virgin Mobile attempting to exercise rights under a fixed sum loan, 
which is a regulated agreement and one which we have the power to look into a complaint 
about. I understand that Mr G may have also purchased an airtime agreement at the same 
time as a fixed sum loan, but that wouldnt have been a regulated agreement, and I therefore 
cannot consider a complaint relating to it. Should Mr G have issue with an airtime 
agreement, he may want to seek independent advice about how to complaint about it.
Its for me to decide whether Virgin Mobile has handled the matter fairly based on the 
evidence available. In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, Im required to take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of 
practice as well as what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Virgin Mobile accepts that theres now limited evidence available to demonstrate whether Mr 
G received one or two mobile phones. As a result, and like our investigator, I think the offer 
its made to unwind one of the agreements and reflect that on Mr Gs credit file is a fair one. 
As no payments were made towards that loan, this would effectively put Mr G in the same 
position hed ultimately have been in if Virgin Mobile had accepted his complaint at the 
outset. I also agree that Mr G ought to remain responsible for the loan relating to the mobile 
phone which he did receive. 
Ive noted Mr Gs strength of feeling regarding the events behind his claim for compensation. 
Its understandable if hes been frustrated by the events which led to this complaint. 
That being said, based on the limited evidence Ive been presented, I can understand why 
Virgin Mobile would be reluctant to accept that only one of two phones delivered at the same 
time would make its way into Mr Gs possession. Particularly in light of what it seems to have 
been told by its courier. I dont think I can fairly say that Virgin Mobile handled the situation 
poorly based on the evidence which seemed to be available to it at the time. So, I make no 
compensatory award. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that Virgin Mobile Media Finance 
Limiteds offer to unwind one of Mr Gs fixed sum loan agreements and reflect that on his 
credit file is fair in the circumstances.  
Virgin Mobile Media Finance Limited should carry this out on Mr Gs acceptance of this 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman