DRN-4360680
The complaint
Miss S complains that Madison CF UK Limited (Madison) is holding her liable for a loan 
which was taken out fraudulently. 
What happened
In November 2021, a £5,000 loan was taken out in Miss Ss name with Madison (trading as 
118 118 Money). The funds were paid into her bank account and then promptly transferred 
on.
Miss S has explained that, at the time, she was dealing with a company (P) who she 
understood to be helping her with cryptocurrency trading  but were actually scammers. She 
has explained P got her to download remote access software, allegedly to help with her 
trading account. And she provided P with personal details to set up her trading account. She 
thinks P used that access and information to apply for the loan, and move on the funds, 
without her consent. 
Madison hasnt agreed with Miss Ss complaint and has held her liable for the loan. It pointed 
out she had been sent emails about it. Unhappy with its response, Miss S referred her 
complaint to our service. She said she thought the first email was spam, but realised a loan 
had actually been taken out shortly after  at which point she contacted Madison. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary, they thought Miss S 
had a credible explanation, with supporting evidence, for how P could have taken out the 
loan, and moved on the funds, without her consent. In the circumstances, they didnt 
consider it fair for Madison to pursue Miss S for the debt. 
Despite the investigator receiving automated acknowledgments from Madison in response to 
their emails, it hasnt responded to the investigation outcome by the deadlines set. So, as we 
have notified both parties, the case has been escalated to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator. I think there is 
credible evidence to suggest the loan was taken out without Miss Ss consent, and that she 
didnt knowingly pass on the loan funds. In the absence of any further evidence or 
arguments from Madison in response to the investigators view, I consider that to be the 
more persuasive explanation. 
Here are the key reasons why I dont consider it fair for Madison to hold Miss S liable for the 
lending: 
Miss S has provided supporting evidence of her interactions with P to back up her 
assertion that they scammed her. There is also information online about P which 
supports her allegation, as there are other suggestions of P acting improperly.
As part of Ps scam, Miss S says they directed her to download remote access 
software. She says she also had to provide personal information as part of the 
onboarding process to start trading with them. That fits with what we often see 
happening in these types of scams.
Miss S has provided further records showing enquiries she made to try and establish 
whether/what software had been downloaded. What she has been able to provide 
supports her assertion that software was found which could have given the 
scammers remote control of her device. I therefore consider Miss Ss explanation for 
how the loan could have been taken out without her consent to be credible. 
There is an indication Miss Ss bank accepted the onward payments (which were 
ultimately lost to the scam) were unauthorised. They refunded her for the loss which 
originated from her own funds  so everything but the £5,000 funded by this lending. 
She also says, even when she saw the account activity, she thought it was proceeds 
from her trading; she didnt realise it was a loan. How the funds show up on her 
statement dont make that immediately clear. Overall, Im not persuaded Miss S 
knowingly moved on the loan funds. 
Miss S does acknowledges receiving the initial email about the loan being taken out, 
but says she disregarded it as spam. But from what Ive seen, she did realise she 
had been scammed, and reported what had happened to Madison (as well as the 
other entities involved, such as her bank) very shortly after. That fits what you would 
expect someone to do if they found out an unauthorised loan had been taken out. 
And I dont consider the small gap reporting/realising the scam so implausible as to 
appear suspicious. 
Miss S has also provided a letter from Action Fraud to show she reported the scam to 
the police. Overall, Ive found her explanation of what happened to be broadly 
consistent and supported by the evidence she has provided. 
I appreciate none of these points are conclusive. But taking them altogether, I think they do 
create substantial doubt that Miss S agreed to the loan contract or knowingly utilised the 
funds. Madisons lack of response to the investigators findings means no further or 
arguments have been presented to change my view on this. 
As the loan was applied for online, using many of Miss Ss genuine details, I am mindful it 
probably wasnt obvious to Madison that the application was fraudulent. But it wouldnt be 
fair to hold Miss S liable for a loan she didnt agree to and didnt use/benefit from. Im 
therefore upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Madison CF UK 
Limited must write off the loan, including removing any refence to it from Miss Ss credit file, 
and it must stop pursuing her for the debt.
Madison CF UK Limited should refund any repayments made  and pay 8% simple interest 
per year on the repayments, running from the date they were taken to the date of settlement. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman