DRN-3142924
The complaint
Miss B has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her 
motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents which administer the policy for it.
What happened
Miss B was looking for a policy through a comparison website. She eventually accepted a 
quote for a policy underwritten by Advantage. A couple of days later Advantage contacted 
Miss B asking it for evidence of any penalty points on her named drivers licence from DVLA. 
Miss B explained that she'd made a mistake when initially looking for quotes and that shed 
said her named driver had received points within the last four years when that wasn't 
accurate. She said her named drivers licence wasn't issued in the UK and the DVLA 
wouldn't hold his licence information. Advantage insisted she contact DVLA which she did. 
Having done so Advantage confirmed Miss Bs cover.
Miss B was unhappy. She said Advantage put her to unnecessary trouble asking her to 
provide documents which didn't exist  that is proof from the DVLA that her named driver 
didn't have points in the period concerned. She brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He didn't think Advantage had done anything wrong. Miss B 
didn't agree so her complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Miss Bs explained that, when she was initially looking for quotes on the comparison website, 
she incorrectly said her named driver had penalty points on his licence from 2017. But she 
didn't accept any of those quotes. She then ran further quotes correctly without any points 
for her named driver in 2017. And, at that point she bought a policy underwritten by 
Advantage. 
Advantage then contacted her. It said it had seen that Miss B had run quotes showing her 
named driver had penalty points from 2017. After she explained her mistake Advantage 
asked her for proof from the DVLA that her named driver didn't have those points. Miss B 
said that this was a huge inconvenience. She said that, as her named driver didn't have a 
UK driving licence, the DVLA wouldn't have the documents Advantage was looking for. 
Miss Bs named driver then had an exchange with staff from DVLA by web chat. DVLA said 
in that exchange:
I can confirm you dont currently have any points on your record. If you did in the past then 
they've expired after 4 years.
Miss B sent a copy of that exchange to Advantage and it confirmed that it didn't need to take 
any further action. Miss B remained unhappy. She said Advantage had asked her for proof 
that didn't exist and believed it was being biased against drivers without UK driving licences. 
But while I can understand that she was put to some inconvenience I don't think Advantage 
treated her unfairly.
After Advantage learned that Miss B had run quotes with different details concerning penalty 
points it asked her to verify which details were correct. I think that was appropriate action for 
Advantage to take. If Miss B had later had to make a claim, and Advantage had learned at 
that time that her named driver had points on his licence that Miss B hadn't told it about, that 
could have affected whether or not Advantage settled the claim, and if so for how much. So 
I think it was reasonable for Advantage to want to make sure that all the details Miss B had 
given it were accurate. 
I do understand it can be very difficult to try to prove something didn't happen. And Miss B 
wouldn't have readily had to hand a document that said her named driver hadn't received 
points in 2017. But that's why Advantage steered Miss B towards DVLA. And while Miss B 
didn't believe they would be able to help, the contents of her named drivers web chat with 
DVLA was enough to show Advantage that Miss B had given it accurate information when 
she took out the policy. So, while I can see that this was inconvenient I don't find 
Advantages request unreasonable, given that DVLA was able to provide exactly the sort of 
proof Advantage was looking for. 
I understand that, if Miss Bs named driver had a UK licence, it might have been easier for 
Advantage to verify his licence details. Thats because Advantage could have checked those 
itself  if the named driver had supplied the appropriate check code. But, because the 
named driver didn't have a UK licence it couldn't do that. However, I don't think that means 
Advantage was in any way biased against the named driver. And, as I've said above, DVLA 
was able to give the named driver the information Advantage needed. So I think Advantage 
dealt with Miss B fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman