DRN-3422911
The complaint
C complains about the shortfall it owes on its mortgage with OneSavings Bank Plc trading as 
Kent Reliance (OSB) following the sale of its buy to let property. 
C is represented in this complaint by its director whom Ill refer to as Miss L. 
What happened
In 2016 C took out a 25-year interest only buy to let mortgage of around £237,000 with OSB, 
which was secured over a residential property.
In April 2019 OSB appointed LPA Receivers when C fell into arrears on its mortgage and 
wasnt able to pay. The Receivers decided to sell the property. 
Miss L initially understood from the Receivers that they expected the mortgage to be cleared 
from the proceeds of sale and any surplus paid to C. The sale was delayed while an issue 
with the title to the property was resolved. And the arrears increased when the tenants 
stopped paying rent during the coronavirus pandemic. When the property was finally sold in 
March 2021, there was a shortfall of around £20,000 between the sale proceeds and what C 
owed on the mortgage.
Miss L was unhappy the Receivers didnt let her know there was likely to be a shortfall. She 
felt C wasnt given the chance to prepare to repay the shortfall. To put things right Miss L 
wanted OSB to write off the £20,000. 
OSB rejected Cs complaint. They told Miss L what had happened leading up to the sale of 
the property. And they explained the Receivers were acting on Cs behalf, not OSBs and 
they werent responsible for the Receivers actions. Miss L was unhappy with OSBs 
response and brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt 
think OSB had done anything wrong. Miss L didnt accept our investigators view, so Cs 
complaints been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
OSB were entitled to appoint the Receivers under legislation and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage since C was in arrears and had failed to pay despite OSB 
formally demanding payment. The terms and conditions of Cs mortgage made clear, 
amongst other things, that the Receivers would act as Cs agent  not OSBs; C would be 
responsible for their costs and actions; and the Receivers could sell the property.
I understand it was disappointing for Miss L, and left C in a difficult position, when the 
Receivers didnt let Miss L know the tenants had stopped paying rent and warn her about the 
potential shortfall. This service doesnt have the power to look at complaints against LPA 
Receivers. But I can consider OSBs actions once the Receivers had been appointed. 
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that OSB behaved fairly and reasonably and were working 
with the Receivers to agree a plan of action. I havent seen any evidence OSB were directing 
the Receivers actions in any way that would lead me to think the Receivers were acting on 
OSBs behalf.
The Receivers advised on how best to market the property given its condition and the fact it 
was tenanted. And the auctioneers advised on the value the property was likely to reach at 
auction. I cant see there was any reduction in the value the property was expected to reach 
between 2019 and 2021 as Miss L suspects. In 2019 the Receivers had expert advice the 
property would fetch between £245,000 and £250,000. In 2021 the auctioneers advised a 
reserve between £250,000 and £260,000. I understand the property was sold for around 
£265,000. Whatever the position, I think it was reasonable for OSB to rely on the advice of 
the Receivers and the auctioneers in agreeing the sale should go ahead through auction and 
at the recommended reserve. 
OSB explained the action the Receivers took in relation to the rent arrears. It seems they felt 
it wasnt cost effective to take legal action against the tenants. There was no obligation on 
OSB to take any action themselves. 
I think OSB could reasonably expect the Receivers to communicate with Miss L about the 
action they were taking and OSB had no obligation themselves to keep her updated. I can 
see Miss L was in correspondence with the Receivers about the issue that arose concerning 
the title to the property. So, she knew the Receivers were dealing with the property and in a 
position to update her on what was happening.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand it will be disappointing for Miss L, I dont 
uphold Cs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman