DRN-4275100
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont refund over £122,000 she lost to an 
investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mrs B initially said that the scammers helped her make payments by watching her 
screen over Anydesk where they advised her what to do. However, she later told this 
service that she was not aware of the majority of the transactions being made from her 
Revolut account, such that she did not authorise them. But Mrs B has said she was 
aware the scammers had opened a Revolut account on her device and says they told 
her that they would deal with the account for her. The Payment Service Regulations 
2017 (which applies to these transactions) do allow for payment transactions to be 
initiated by someone acting on behalf of the account holder, which can be agreed 
informally (e.g. by the account holder asking or permitting a third party to undertake a 
task on their behalf). And if the account holder has permitted a third party to appear as if 
they have the consumers authority to make payment transactions, those payment 
transactions will likely be authorised, even where the consumer didnt ask the third party 
make any payments or know about them.
In this instance, Im satisfied Mrs B knew that the scammers had created a Revolut 
account, where she then either made the transfers herself or consented to the third-party 
scammer making transfers on her behalf. I say this because I can see that when Revolut 
was asking Mrs B about a particular payment, she provided a dated selfie to show it was 
genuinely her requesting it. So, Im satisfied the disputed payments she made to her 
Binance wallet (where the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer) 
should be treated as authorised for the purposes of the PSRs 2017.
With regards to authorised payments, the starting position is that banks ought to follow 
the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed. However, Ive considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent 
Mrs B from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a firm should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
It isnt in dispute that some of the payments Mrs B made were unusual given that they 
did trigger Revoluts fraud prevention systems and were automatically blocked pending 
further enquiry  such as the payment of £5,000 she made on 13 January 2023. 
Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank went far enough in all the 
circumstances with its interventions.
Revolut asked Mrs B questions through the in-app chat such as whether she had 
downloaded any screen sharing applications, whether she had sole access to her 
Binance account, the nature of the payments, as well as whether anyone had told her to 
create a Revolute account and was encouraging her to make an outbound transfer. I 
accept that Revolut could have arguably gone further in its questioning of Mrs B during 
its intervention, and I also think it had cause to question her much sooner than the tenth 
payment she was making as part of the scam. But even accepting this as the case, Im 
not persuaded any such further questioning would have ultimately uncovered the scam 
and prevented the loss in any event.
I say this because Mrs B answered Revoluts questions by saying she hadnt used any 
screensharing applications (which she had). She said she was using Binance for trading 
and storing cryptocurrency, despite being under the impression that she was transferring 
money to recover funds left in a dormant Binance account. She also told it that she had 
not had any contact by telephone or email to invest money. Mrs B says she wasnt aware 
of these questions, but I can see that she provided a dated selfie to Revolut as part of its 
security checks when it blocked the payment. Mrs B has said that she was being advised 
on what to say by the scammers at each step. And it was based upon the answers she 
gave that the Revolut was satisfied the payment wasnt likely being made as part of a 
scam.
If Mrs B had answered the questions accurately and explained she was using Anydesk 
and was paying frequent sums in order to access funds in a dormant account, then I 
accept it would have been incumbent on Revolut to maintain suspicion about the 
payment and probe further into the circumstances. But seeing as Mrs B was not 
forthcoming with these details, Im not persuaded that any further questioning or earlier 
intervention would have prevented the scam either, as it seems more likely than not that 
Mrs B would not have given honest and accurate answers. 
So, in these circumstances, I dont consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold 
Revolut liable for Mrs Bs loss, because it seems more likely than not that she would 
have always made the payment to the scammers, notwithstanding any intervention.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs B, and Im sorry to hear shes 
fallen victim to such a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Revolut can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman