DRN-4221739
The complaint
Mr L complains about poor customer service from Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard.. He has asked Barclays to pay him £1000 compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
As our investigator has explained complaint handling in itself isnt a regulated activity 
so doesnt fall into our jurisdiction. However, as Mr Ls complaint relates to a previous 
complaint about persistent debt- which does come under our jurisdiction- I think its 
appropriate to respond to some of his key points that he has now raised about 
customer service. But its not appropriate for me to consider issues relevant to Mr Ls 
prior complaint about Barclaycards approach and decision with regard to Mr Ls 
persistent debt as a decision has already been made on that complaint
Barclaycard acknowledged Mr Ls frustration on being told it was awaiting information 
from us when we had already issued our findings on his previous complaint. It seems 
Barclaycards records hadnt been updated. Thats unfortunate but sometimes it can 
take systems a little while to update
I appreciate Mr L wanted an analysis of his account which he didnt get. I dont know 
why that was, but I understand all the information Mr L wanted was available to him 
in the persistent debt letters Barclaycard sent him. So, I believe he did have access 
to the information he wanted
I think Mr Ls request to get a response to an email he sent Barclaycard within 24 
hours was unreasonable particularly as Mr L wasnt, for example,  raising a potential 
fraud issue that needed immediate action.  Barclaycard says it always tries to 
respond to customer deadlines, but it just isnt always possible to do so. I dont think 
that was an unreasonable response. 
I understand the delay in logging Mr Ls new complaint was due to an investigator 
leaving this service and not properly updating our systems. I think some confusion 
was  also caused with the overlap of the old case and the new complaint, but it 
doesnt seem to me there was an undue delay by any party then going forward
Whilst I acknowledge Mr Ls frustration over his dealings with Barclaycard I dont feel 
I have any evidence to uphold his complaint. So, I cant reasonably ask Barclaycard 
to pay the compensation he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman