DRN-1591383
 
The complaint
Miss S complains that Santander UK plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in June 2004. The policy covered 
Miss S for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Miss S didnt agree. 
She said, in summary, that:
She was told she would not be given a mortgage without taking the PPI.
She wasn't told there were alternative products available from other providers.
She had a 50% deposit available when she took the mortgage, showing she was in a 
good financial position.
She didn't default on her mortgage even when she was made redundant.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ss complaint.
Santander doesnt have a full record of the sale, which isnt surprising given it took place so 
long ago. In cases like this, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint for the following reasons:
Miss S says she didn't ask to take the PPI, but she was told she would not be given a 
mortgage without it. I accept this is possible. But its also possible Miss S did want the PPI 
but cant now remember agreeing to it given the time thats passed.  As it happened so long 
ago I can't be sure exactly what was discussed. So I've relied mainly on the paperwork 
which would have been completed at the time. Miss S would have needed to complete a 
separate application form and direct debit mandate for the PPI. So I think it would have been 
reasonably clear  from the need to complete these separate forms   that this was a 
separate product which she could chose to take or decline. Ive considered what Miss S 
says, but this isnt enough for me to conclude that Santander told her she had to have the 
PPI. Overall, I think it more likely than not that Santander made Miss S aware that the PPI 
was optional and that she chose to take it. The bank advised Miss S to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Let me explain why.
Miss S was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Miss S says she was in a strong financial position - she had a 50% deposit and she had 
money to buy carpets and furniture for her new home. But she's also told us that she would 
have probably only received minimal sick pay from her employer and that she didn't have 
any other means of meeting her repayments if she couldn't work due to sickness or an 
accident. The mortgage was a significant long term financial commitment and Miss Ss home 
was at risk if she didnt keep up with the repayments. And the PPI was to cover her for the 
lifetime of the mortgage. It would have paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a 
successful claim for accident or sickness. So I think the PPI could have been a useful 
benefit. It also covered her if she'd become unemployed.
Miss S says she wasn't made aware that she could have taken out a policy with another 
provider. But Santander was only obliged to give information about its own products.
Miss S wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As she 
could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely she needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
It's not clear whether the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Miss S before she 
agreed to purchase it. It's possible she wasn't told it would cost £26.36 each month until after 
the mortgage had started. For this reason I have considered whether clearer information 
about the cost would have affected Miss Ss decision to purchase the policy. She had 
chosen to take out the policy, knowing she would have to pay something for it. The policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely she would have 
made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Santanders recommendation 
was unsuitable and I dont think Miss S would have made a different decision about taking 
out the policy if better information had been provided to her  overall, I think she would still 
have taken out the policy. 
I've taken into account what Miss S told us happened when she made a claim for 
unemployment in 2006. She is unhappy that the insurer stopped making her claim payments 
- she says after one month, although from what the bank has told us, it looks like she 
received more than two month's benefit. Whilst I appreciate she feels strongly about this, it 
does not change my conclusion. She was eligible to make a claim and this decision is about 
what Santander did, or didn't, do when the PPI was sold; not what happened when Miss S 
made a claim.
Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss S because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss S about that. Because Santander didnt tell 
Miss S, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Santander UK plc does have to pay back to Miss S any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman