DRN-3342375
The complaint
Mr R complains that he couldnt contact Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard 
(Barclaycard) to discuss his account. 
What happened
Mr R had a Barclaycard and was in financial difficulty. He was abroad and tried to contact 
Barclaycard by phone to discuss his account. But he found that that the waiting times on the 
phone were very long.
Mr R complained. He said he couldnt get through on the phone to discuss his account and 
spent a long time on hold. He said he couldnt use his Barclaycard app as it was blocked. 
Because he had to phone, this cost him a lot of money in call charges - £200. In the end he 
had to get a flight back to the UK to deal with his account, and some other business matters. 
He said Barclaycard should reimburse his call and flight costs. He said that Barclaycard 
didnt adjust their services to support customers in the time of the pandemic. 
Barclaycard said they dont compensate for waiting times on the phone; nor would they meet 
Mr Rs flight costs. They said they provided an international number for customers to use 
when outside the UK, and Mr R couldve used other ways to contact them, e.g. by online. 
They offered £25 as a gesture for the inconvenience that Mr R had suffered. 
Mr R didnt accept Barclaycards offer of £25 and brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator said Barclaycard acted reasonably. Barclaycard had faced challenges due to the 
pandemic, including a reduced number of staff, and the need to reorganise staff to work from 
home. And some of their overseas call centres were closed due to the pandemic. There 
were also other ways that Mr R could contact Barclaycard  such as email, and online  
messaging. Overall, he didnt think Barclaycard needed to reimburse Mr Rs call costs or the 
cost of his flight.
Mr R didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr R was in financial difficulty on his account. He had spoken to Barclaycard 
in January 2021 and at that time they agreed to put a 30 day hold on his account. This was 
renewed for another month in February 2021. And after that, I can see he needed to contact 
Barclaycard to deal with matters.
I have no doubt that he did experience delays in getting through to Barclaycard. Weve seen 
this was the case at Barclaycard, as well as many other banks and financial businesses. 
This was because of staff absences, and the need to send staff home to work  and 
therefore reorganise all their processes to do that. And in the case of Barclaycard, they also 
closed some of their overseas call centres because of the pandemic. All this meant that they 
had less staff than before to answer calls. 
And so  I must decide whether that was reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Rs 
complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) made several announcements during the pandemic. 
They said that customers needed to be patient in contacting banks; and, that they should 
use online services wherever possible. So  this is relevant guidance in connection with Mr 
Rs complaint. 
I looked at Barclaycards messages on their website at the time. These said we are helping 
a lot of people right now and it may take longer than wed like to speak to you.you can use 
online servicing or our appyou can chat with us 24/7 using Apple Business Chat 
It also said, log in and use our secure messaging servicewhen you send us a secure 
message through Barclaycard online servicing well get back to you as soon as we can.
And so  to be fair to Barclaycard, they warned of the wait times on the phones, and 
provided several other ways that Mr R could use to contact them. And these could be used 
from anywhere in the world, subject of course to internet connectivity. And  they were free 
services.
Mr R has said he couldnt use his Barclaycard app. And so, he called. I looked at the notes 
on his account and on 27 February 2021  Barclaycard advised him of the email address to 
use in order to send details of his income and expenditure  this would normally be needed 
to see his circumstances and how they might be able to help him. So  Barclaycard did try to 
point Mr R towards using email.
Mr R has said that Barclaycard didnt change its services to help customers in the light of the 
pandemic. Ive considered what hes said. We cant tell businesses to change their 
operations, processes, or procedures  thats up to them, and we cant interfere. But our role 
is to decide if customers have been treated fairly in the circumstances of their complaint. 
And here  Mr R was given several other ways he could contact Barclaycard, other than by 
phone. And so  I think he was treated fairly.
I can see that Mr R feels strongly about what happened and will therefore be disappointed 
by my decision, but Im not going to ask Barclaycard to do anymore here. Their offer of 
compensation of £25 still stands, and if Mr R wishes to accept that he should contact 
Barclaycard to arrange its payment.
(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Martin LordOmbudsman