DRN-1281934
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way Great Lakes Insurance SE have handled his claim under his 
Home Emergency policy.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr A reported to Great Lakes that his boiler wouldnt turn off. Great Lakes sent 
an approved contractor out the next day, who inspected the boiler and made 
recommendations for work that needed to be completed.
Great Lakes sent a second contractor a couple of days later who fitted a new valve to the 
boiler. The same day Mr A contacted Great Lakes as he was unhappy with the work that had 
been carried out. He said the contractor wasnt qualified to carry out the work and reported 
the problem was now worse  a loud bang was intermittently now coming from the boiler.
Great Lakes sent a third contractor the next day. Mr A said the third contractor fixed the 
issue, but he was unhappy with the second contractor  he says the contractor wasnt 
qualified to carry out the work.
Great Lakes said the first contractor reported a valve was needed so the second contractor, 
a Plumber, was sent as there would be no need to touch wiring. The second contractor had 
been unable to resolve the issue and felt it could be an electrical fault, so they sent a third 
contractor  an electrician. They said the third contractor was able to fix the fault by rewiring 
and adjusting the cylinder thermostat, but they couldnt see the second contractors visit 
caused any additional issues.
Mr A was unhappy with their response, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think we should uphold Mr As complaint. They said there was no 
evidence of the second contractor causing any damage, and they were satisfied Great Lakes 
had applied the terms and conditions of the policy fairly when handling his claim.
Mr A didnt agree. He said the cylinder stat needed to be repaired because the second 
contractor altered the wiring. So, the third contractor had to repair issues caused by the 
second contractor. He said the second contractor didnt know what he was doing and had to 
keep calling someone to ask for directions  and the unit looked a mess. Mr A says an 
intermittent banging noise still comes from the boiler when the hot water is turned on  which 
never happened before.
The complaint has now passed to me to make a final decision.
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy certificate, under the section for understanding how the policy works, says it 
provides access to a network of approved contractors that deal with issues covered by the 
policy. 
Under the meaning of words section I can see Great Lakes says an approved contractor 
means a qualified tradesman who we regularly check and have agreed can temporarily or 
permanently repair or prevent further damage to your home
I need to decide whether I think whether Great Lakes applied this fairly when dealing with
Mr As claim and I think they did. So, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
Great Lakes' system notes show the first contractor recommended a new two port valve was 
needed. The valve is used to control the flow of water in a central heating system and is pre-
wired so just needs to be installed without any wiring being altered. So I think Great Lakes 
acted correctly here in sending a qualified tradesman suited to the type of work that had 
been recommended.
The second contractor fitted the valve but said they felt there was an issue which was 
electrical in nature. The system notes show the second contractor confirmed this with the 
supplier over the phone during the visit. Mr A said the second contractor disconnected wires 
when carrying out the work and caused the issues, which then meant the cylinder stat 
needed repairing.
A third contractor carried out further work the next day and reported they had rewired the 
cylinder stat as it was on a setting that caused it to continuously run. As the initial issue 
reported was that the boiler wouldn't turn off, I think its more likely than not this was related 
to the original issue - and not because of anything the second contractor did. Overall, having 
looked at everything, while I can understand Mr As frustration about the repeated visits, I 
dont think Great Lakes have done anything wrong. 
Ive also thought about what Mr A said about the popping and banging noise that now 
occasionally comes from the boiler. Something that is intermittent is by nature hard to 
diagnose. The third contractor reported the system was working ok, with no issues when 
they completed the work. So, Im not persuaded this is related to the work carried out by the 
contractors. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman