DRN-1543119
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lifesure Group Limited (Lifesure) didnt make it clear the terms of his 
caravan insurance policy had changed which led him to cancelling it and incurring premiums 
and fees.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr L renewed his caravan insurance and the policy started on 8 May 2019. 
Shortly thereafter he realised the policy no longer covered flood damage. Mr L said had he 
known, he wouldnt have renewed the policy. 
He complained and Lifesure said they made him aware of the exclusion by email which was 
sent prior to the renewal information. In their response to the complaint, they also made him 
aware about the right to cancel the policy and the potential fees and charges should he 
choose to do so. Mr L later cancelled the policy on 31 May 2019.
Unhappy with their response, the complaint was referred to our service and since this time, 
Mr L has also complained about the premiums and fees charged once the policy was 
cancelled. As a gesture of goodwill, Lifesure said they would refund their commission fee 
which was approximately £59 but said Mr L would still be charged for the time on cover. Mr L 
remained unhappy because he wanted a refund of all the premiums and fees. Lifesure has 
confirmed we can look at both aspects of the complaint under this reference. 
Our investigator looked into matters and didnt believe the complaint should be upheld. They 
were satisfied Lifesure had made Mr L aware of the change of policy terms in advance of the 
renewal. They said as the policy was cancelled by Mr L outside of the cooling off period, 
Lifesure had acted in line with the terms meaning they were entitled to charge an 
administration fee and for the time the policy was in place. Mr L disagreed.
As an agreement couldnt be reached it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Although a number of points have been 
raised, this decision focuses on what I think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions. Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Flood exclusion 
Insurance policies are generally renewed on an annual basis and it isnt uncommon for there 
to be changes in the terms. Insurers are entitled to do so but it is their responsibility or that of 
the broker to make sure the policyholder is fully aware and give notice of the change in 
advance. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied this has happened, let me explain.In this case, Lifesure are the brokers and they carry out the administration of the policy. 
Following the change of insurers, Mr Ls policy at renewal wouldnt be covered for flood 
damage. Given this would be a significant change, I wouldve expected Lifesure to make this 
clear and specifically draw it to Mr Ls attention so he could make an informed choice as to 
whether he wanted to renew the policy. 
On 15 April 2019, Lifesure sent Mr L an email with the subject title Important information 
regarding your insurance policy. This email contained a letter which advised the policy 
excluded flood damage. The letter invited Mr L to contact them if he believed flood cover 
was essential to the policy. Later on the same day, Lifesure sent Mr L the renewal 
information.
Ive carefully considered what Mr L has said about both emails. In relation to the first email 
about the exclusion, he admitted he received it but didnt read it because he thought it was a 
circular or notification of the upcoming renewal. He said he read the second email containing 
the renewal information. He mentioned as the premiums were similar to the previous year, 
he assumed it was like for like cover.
While I appreciate Mr Ls honesty about not reading the first email, it wouldnt be fair to hold 
Lifesure responsible for him not doing so. Equally, it wouldnt be fair to hold them 
responsible if he made the assumption the policy was the same as before. I say this 
because in the renewal information there is no mention the policy is the same.
Ive considered Mr Ls comments about the renewal information saying flood was covered 
and I accept this wasnt particularly clear given the earlier email about the exclusion. 
However in the event Mr L read the first email, it wouldve been fair for him to question what 
exactly was covered and discuss it with Lifesure prior to renewing the policy. 
During the investigation, Lifesure explained that while flood damage isnt excluded from the 
policy as a whole, it is an exclusion on Mr Ls policy. This is because the insurer determined 
his caravan was located in a flood risk area and they decided not to offer this cover to him. 
As insurers will be taking on the risk, they are allowed to decide who they wish to cover and 
on what basis; this is a commercial decision. I would expect them to make it sufficiently clear 
to consumers, prior to buying or renewing the policy, what they are willing to cover and this 
is what happened here by Lifesure sending the emails. 
As the insurers policy summary and definitions are generic, I dont believe it would be 
reasonable for Lifesure or the insurer to tailor their generic policy wording for each individual 
consumer when sending renewal information. But if there are any particular exclusions 
relevant to the individual, I would expect this to be brought to the consumers attention which 
is what Lifesure has done. 
Following the renewal, Lifesure said they sent a copy of the policy documents to Mr L. They 
were sent approximately a week after the policy was renewed which was approximately two 
weeks before the policy was due to start. The documents included the policy schedule which 
outlined the details of Mr Ls policy and under the endorsements section, it states flood 
damage was excluded. If Mr L was unhappy with the information, he was advised to contact 
Lifesure. Mr L said he didnt receive these documents and he had to call to get a copy on 13 
May 2019. It was at that point he said he realised flood damage was excluded. 
I cant safely say whether the policy documents were received by Mr L. However as he did 
request a further copy, Im satisfied he had them within the 14 day cooling off period. 
Taking everything into consideration, as the email concerning the exclusion was sent to Mr L 
approximately three weeks before the policy was due to renew, it was sent separately to the renewal information and with a specific subject title highlighting it was important, I believe 
Lifesure did enough to make Mr L aware of the flood exclusion prior to renewal. Im also 
satisfied Mr M was given the opportunity to discuss or question the changes before they 
were implemented. So I cant agree Lifesure has done anything wrong.
Cancellation of the policy
If the policy is cancelled outside of the 14 day cooling off period, Lifesures terms of business 
say part of the premium will be refunded less their commission fee and administration costs. 
This term is common in insurance policies. 
When Mr L realised his policy excluded flood damage, he called to speak to Lifesure. This 
call was made within the 14 day cooling off period. Ive listened to the call and the agent 
asked him if he wanted to cancel the policy. Mr L said he didnt want to until he could 
arrange alternative insurance but he also mentioned that he might have difficulty in doing so 
as he was due to go on holiday shortly. Therefore the policy continued running until Mr L 
cancelled it on 31 May 2019.
Given Mr Ls request for the insurance to continue until he found an alternative and also the 
fact there were a few calls between him and Lifesure during the 14 day cooling off period, I 
cant say Mr L didnt have the opportunity to cancel the policy earlier. As soon as Mr L 
confirmed he wanted to cancel it, Lifesure did so immediately. However this date was 
outside of the 14 day cooling off period.
Based on the evidence provided, I consider Mr Ls time on cover to be from the date the 
policy started (8 May 2019) to the date of cancellation (31 May 2019). Therefore in line with 
the terms, it would be reasonable for him to be charged a premium for this period of cover 
and an administration fee for the cancellation. Although they were entitled to charge a 
commission fee, Lifesure has agreed to refund this as a gesture of goodwill. They also made 
attempts to ask the insurer to cover flood damage but this was refused so I cant say theyve 
acted unfairly there either. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr L but I cant agree that Lifesure 
has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
Simona Charles
Ombudsman