DRN-3054186
The complaint
Mr M complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd declined a claim made under his critical illness 
insurance policy. 
In bringing his complaint to our service, Mr M has been helped by his wife. But, for ease of 
reference, Ill only refer to Mr M in my decision. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2009 Mr M set up a critical illness insurance policy with Zurich. The policy provides 
£100,000 of cover over a 15-year term and it includes childrens critical illness benefit. 
Mr Ms son, A, sadly suffers from various medical issues that include a rare genetic disorder 
of Evans syndrome. This comprises of autoimmune warm antibody haemolytic anaemia and 
immune thrombocytopaenia. A critical illness claim was made for A under Mr Ms policy in 
February 2021. 
Zurich declined the claim. They acknowledged the seriousness of As condition but said it 
isnt covered under the policy. They explained that As condition  in which healthy blood 
cells are destroyed by autoantibodies - is different to aplastic anaemia (which is covered 
under the policy) as thats a failure of bone marrow to produce blood cells. 
Mr M complained about Zurichs decision. In short, he said:
It was never said that A was diagnosed with aplastic anaemia when the claim was 
submitted. But, hed had a definite diagnosis of anaemia, neutropenia and 
thrombocytopenia which requires not one but three of the four treatments required 
under the Aplastic anaemia condition  those being blood transfusion, marrow 
stimulating agents and immunosuppressive agents.
A has a very rare condition that involves other factors and problems, none of which 
can be compared to other due to its rarity. This is supported by a letter from the 
Clinical Commissioning Group.
As consultant, Dr L, explains that this constellation of medical problems is very 
unusual and does not fit into a single domestic category. It is a conclusion that As 
condition is rare and has no name.
The real upset here is that his son is seriously critically ill and although Zurich 
cannot list all conditions surely such a rare one should be considered.  This is why he 
has the insurance  paying a large sum of money each month to cover such 
eventualities (and in the hope they never have to use it).
Zurichs position didnt change. They reiterated that they couldnt accept the claim on the 
basis that As condition isnt covered by the terms and conditions. Zurich added that the 
policy wasnt designed to cover every critical illness. And that the conditions and definitions 
were detailed in the terms and conditions which were accepted when the policy was set up 
in 2009. 
Mr M referred the matter to our service. Our investigator looked into it but he didnt think 
Zurich had unfairly declined the claim. He explained that Mr Ms policy says itll only pay out 
the childrens critical illness benefit if the child is diagnosed with a critical illness that meets 
Zurichs policy definition(s). And unfortunately, in As case, what hes been diagnosed with 
isnt a listed condition. So, our investigator didnt think Zurich had acted unfairly as theyd 
acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy when considering the claim. 
Mr M disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, hes added:
Hes aware Zurich have met their terms and conditions but believes there are 
grounds for discrepancy and unfairness.
A is the only person with this condition  it is very rare and has no name therefore it 
would be impossible for Zurich (or any other insurance company) to list it within their 
policy wording.
A has the same symptoms and treatments of an illness that is a listed condition  
aplastic anaemia. And so, A has more than fulfilled the relevant criteria required and 
couldnt get any closer to Zurichs criteria with an un-named condition. 
The reason you pay a substantial amount of money each month is to help with such 
serious eventualities. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain the reasons for the decision Ive reached, I want to reassure Mr M that Ive 
given careful consideration to the points hes raised. I also dont underestimate the severity 
of As health conditions or the impact it has on him and his family. I realise it must be a very 
difficult time. But, what I must consider here is whether Zurich has fairly declined the claim. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M but I think they have and for similar 
reasons to that of our investigator. Ill explain why.
The policy terms and conditions set out the cover provided to Mr M. Essentially it is the 
contract that stipulates when Zurich is required to pay the sum assured. Mr M agreed to 
these terms and conditions when he set up the policy and so I think it is fair for Zurich to 
apply them when considering the claim. Ive therefore looked at whether Zurich has applied 
them fairly here. 
The terms and conditions say:
When well pay the childrens critical illness benefit
If you have children they are covered for the range of conditions listed on page 34. 
Well pay the cash sum if your child is diagnosed with a critical illness that meets our 
plan definition during the plans termWhen we wont pay out

We wont pay a childrens critical illness claim if:
the illness suffered does not exactly meet the plan definitions;
the illness suffered is not included in these terms and conditions;
Im satisfied the above is clear in explaining illnesses that arent included in the terms and 
conditions, or dont exactly meet the policy definitions, arent covered. 
Having reviewed the conditions covered under the policy, it seems that As illness isnt listed. 
And, while I appreciate the symptoms and treatments may well be very similar, As condition 
doesnt exactly meet the aplastic anaemia definition. Because of this, As condition isnt 
covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr M doesnt however appear to dispute this but rather, hes highlighted the rarity of his 
sons condition and says that it wouldve been impossible for Zurich to have included it within 
the policy terms. Hes questioned the fairness of declining the claim because of this, 
particularly as his sons symptoms and treatments meet those in the aplastic anaemia 
definition. 
I appreciate Mr M feels very strongly about this and that hes stressed the reason for taking 
out such a policy was to provide financial protection from this type of event happening. I 
sympathise with Mr M and his familys position. But, as it has already been explained by 
Zurich and our investigator, insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. They only 
provide cover for specified events as set out in the terms and conditions. And the cost of the 
policy (premiums) is calculated based on the associated risks, including what conditions both 
are and arent covered. The insurer, in this case Zurich, decide on what terms they are 
willing to offer cover to the market and it is for the consumer (policyholder) to choose 
whether to accept them or not. And, as Ive already said, Mr M accepted the terms and 
conditions when setting up the policy. 
I realise that As situation is very rare. And so, the uniqueness of his condition means its 
unlikely for it to be listed as a covered condition by Zurich (or any other insurer). While that 
may be true, I dont think I can fairly direct Zurich to pay the claim. This is because As 
condition  regardless of how similar to aplastic anaemia it is in respect of the symptoms and 
treatments  sadly isnt listed as covered under the policy.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr M is hoping for but, for the reasons Ive explained, I think 
Zurich has fairly declined the claim. I therefore wont be directing them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman