DRN-2636976
The complaint
Mr O complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wouldnt open a Help to Buy ISA 
and wrongly told him that there was information about him recorded at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database.
What happened
Mr O applied for the account on 28 November 2019. He thought he had been successful but 
the next day he was told that the account wouldnt be opened. And that he may wish to 
make a subject access request to CIFAS. Even though it had been shown there is no 
information at CIFAS Halifax wont open an account.
Halifax said it had made a commercial decision not to offer Mr O an account. The letter it 
sent him about this had been the wrong one and it offered to pay him £75 compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Halifax had 
decided to close the account having made its second stage checks applicable to a savings 
account. The account had been initially opened subject to those checks including with credit 
reference agencies and fraud prevention agencies. In the final response Halifax had said 
that the correct reason for the account not being opened was ..because of your previous 
conduct with Lloyds Bank. He understood this to relate to an application for a business 
account made by Mr O and which had been separately considered as a complaint by this 
service. So, he wouldnt be looking at that again here but noted that the other complaint 
hadnt been upheld.
Our investigator said that Halifax wasnt obliged to provide accounts to everyone that applied 
just as Mr O wasnt obliged to hold an account with any one business. While his credit record 
may be excellent as he says that wasnt the only thing that Halifax would consider. He knew 
Mr O felt that Halifax had discriminated against him but having looked at the evidence he 
didnt think that it had. He thought the offer of compensation for the separate issue of 
sending out a misleading letter was reasonable. The timing of what happened was 
unfortunate as the scheme had been withdrawn for new applicants after 30 November 2019. 
But Mr O couldnt have been sure he would be successful when he made his application 
close to a deadline which hadnt been set by Halifax.
Mr O didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that it was unfortunate 
that the burden of proof here was on him. There are unsubstantiated allegations about his 
credit report which are untrue and scandalous. He attached an extract of his credit record 
showing no issues. The only conclusion as to why Halifax changed its decision was as a 
result of bias and prejudice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand Mr Os frustration at what happened. And as I understand it, at the time he 
applied for the Help to Buy ISA he had existing accounts with Halifax and Lloyds (part of the 
same business grouping).
Whether or not to agree to open an account  even if in addition to an existing one  is a 
matter for the commercial discretion here of Halifax. Thats something I wouldnt generally 
interfere with. Like Mr O Id expect it to operate a fair application process although that 
doesnt mean it has to explain exactly why it wouldnt open an account.
Halifax decides what checks to make and how it views Mr Os credit record alongside any 
other information is a matter for it. I accept from what Mr O has provided that there dont 
appear to be any issues with the report he sent, and it is accepted that there is no CIFAS 
loading in his name. But Im satisfied based on what Ive seen that Halifax reviewed his 
account as it would any other. I dont see any evidence of the discrimination or profiling Mr O 
suspects featured in Halifaxs decision.
I have to say though that Halifax hasnt done a good job in communicating things to Mr O. It 
first wrongly gave him the impression that there was a marker at CIFAS. But I understand in 
any event Mr O tracks his records closely himself and knew that this wasnt the position. It 
then made the fairly unclear reference to conduct at Lloyds our investigator has set out. I am 
not looking here at an application seemingly rejected in similar circumstances for his 
company. And it didnt seem as a result that the account there operated. But I think the read 
across is that for similar reasons Halifax didnt want to open an account for Mr O either.
Halifax has offered to pay Mr O £75 for the poor communication, and I think thats 
reasonable. I dont think it can fairly be responsible for the loss of opportunity for Mr O not 
being able to open a Help to Buy ISA before the scheme closed to new applicants. He didnt 
leave sufficient time to apply to any other business than Halifax given the deadline, there 
was no guarantee he would be successful although I know he genuinely expected to be, and 
Im afraid I dont find Halifax made a mistake and so created any unfairness in not opening 
the account for him. I know he will be disappointed by my conclusions here.
My final decision
Halifax has offered to pay Mr O £75 to resolve this complaint and I think that this is fair in all 
the circumstances. So, my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should 
pay Mr O £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman