DRN-2959068
The complaint
Mr B complains that his motor insurer, Admiral Insurance Company Limited, misadvised 
him about the impact of a claim he made for lost car keys.
What happened
Mr B claimed on the key cover he held as part of his car insurance. He said he told Admirals 
agent he didn't want this to impact on his future insurance and was advised that his no 
claims discount (NCD) wouldnt be affected. But he said at the next renewal of his car 
insurance he had problems as the quotes kept flagging he was giving incorrect information. 
Mr B said Admiral advised him that he hadnt declared the claim for the keys when he 
renewed, and he said that hed been told he didnt have to. Mr B said Admiral reduced the 
premium to remove the impact of the claim. Mr B wasnt satisfied and complained to Admiral. 
Admiral apologised to Mr B for not advising him his key cover would be a claim to disclose to 
a future insurer and paid him £50 compensation. Admiral said its agent had correctly advised 
him his NCD wouldnt be affected and the claim had been logged as a non-fault claim. 
Mr B was unhappy as he thought he would have to pay higher premiums for six years due to 
his claim, and these wouldnt be covered by the compensation. He brought his complaint to 
our service and said he wants Admiral to remove the claim from the record of his insurance, 
so it doesnt have to be declared. Mr B said Admiral should pay an additional £150 
compensation for the inconvenience it had caused him. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said Admiral hadnt been clear 
about the impact of Mr Bs claim on his renewal premium and thought he wouldnt have 
made the claim had he known. She said Admiral should re-price his current policy 
accordingly as a non-fault claim and should pay Mr B a total of £100 compensation.
Mr B thought the redress should be the value of his claim, £207.99, and £100 compensation 
for any increased premiums in future as the claim would still have an impact after buying it 
back. Our investigator said Admiral should change the claim to notification only to reduce 
the impact. Mr B remained unhappy and requested an ombudsman review his complaint.
Admiral said the claim is recorded as notification only and non-fault, NCD allowed. Admiral 
said that it would consider a further payment to Mr B. Mr B obtained his insurance record, 
which states; Closed Notification Only Claims Allowed and that his NCD is Allowed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint concerns the impact on Mr B of having made a claim for lost keys and the 
information he was or wasnt given about this. Mr B says that as he hasnt made any error 
about his claim, he shouldnt be expected to spend anything more on future premiums. 
Admiral told Mr B that a claim for his locks wouldnt affect his NCD but didnt say that it 
would be recorded as a claim that might affect his premiums in future. I think from what Mr B 
has said that he would have paid to change the locks himself had he known.
Mr B asked about the effect on his NCD and Admiral correctly said that there was no effect. 
But Admiral didnt make it clear that this was a claim he would need to declare in future. I 
dont think Admiral has been entirely clear to Mr B about the recording of the claim, but we 
can see from the claim record with certainty that this is recorded as non-fault, NCD allowed. 
However, that doesnt necessarily mean that Admiral didnt increase Mr Bs premium as a 
consequence of his claim.
Our investigator said Admiral should change the claim to notification only to reduce the 
impact on Mr Bs future premiums. Given that Mr B made a claim and there was a cost to 
Admiral I think it has accurately recorded the claim Mr B has made in that way. This still 
means that Mr B will need to declare the claim if asked in future. 
Admiral has apologised for its agent not telling Mr B about the impact his claim would have 
on future premiums. But has now said that there is no refund of premium due to Mr B. This is 
different to what Admiral told us previously.
I agree with the investigator that it would be fair for Admiral to check what it charged Mr B at 
renewal of his policy and refund to him any amount that it increased his premium in respect 
of his claim. I also think Admiral should pay Mr B an additional £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience Admirals confused communication has caused him. 
Mr B said his policy was subsequently cancelled due to the claim  I havent seen any 
evidence that the policy was cancelled by Admiral or that cancellation was due to his claim. 
It is open to Mr B to bring a separate complaint to Admiral or his broker about cancellation of 
his policy if he wishes.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to repay to Mr B any additional premium he has 
been charged in respect of his claim when he renewed his motor insurance policy with 
Admiral. And to pay Mr B further compensation of £50 (to a total of £100).
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman