DRN-1612443
 
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim  (FTR) is 
charging a success fee for a protection insurance (PPI) claim she said she didnt give them 
authority to make.
What happened
In May 2019 Mrs N made an online enquiry for FTR to carry out a free PPI check. In October 
2019, one of Mrs Ns lenders said PPI had been mis-sold to her and paid Mrs N 
compensation for this. As Mrs N had a successful claim FTR asked her to pay their success 
fee as stated in their terms and conditions, 24% inclusive of VAT.
Mrs N said shed never authorised FTR to act for her and the claim was made without her 
consent. So she didnt agree they could charge her their fee.
FTR said Mrs N had signed letters of authority (LoA) instructing them to make PPI claims on 
her behalf. And their terms and conditions, included with the LoAs said if Mrs Ns claim was 
successful; they'd charge a success fee.
FTR said theyd sent the LoAs to Mrs Ns lenders. And as her claim was successful their fee 
was justified.
Mrs N wasnt happy with their response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said FTR had acted reasonably in making the claim, and that they could 
charge their fee.  
Mrs N said  the signature wasn't hers and didn't agree that she should have to pay 
FTR their fee. She has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding this 
compliant, Ill explain why.
The main crux of Mrs Ns complaint is that she didnt sign the LoA so hadnt agreed for FTR 
to represent her. It's not for me to verify whether the signature on the authority form is or isnt 
Mrs Ns. In making my decision I have considered what  FTR has done and if I think they 
have acted fairly and reasonably in charging Mrs N their fee.
When Mrs N asked FTR to carry out a free PPI check in May 2019, their terms and 
conditions said:If no PPI is identified, this Agreement will come to an end, but this Agreement will  continue 
on any accounts where a Company has confirmed You had PPI.
I can see FTR contacted several of Mrs Ns lenders to check whether she had PPI with 
them. Ill call them lender S, lender T and lender H.  In June 2019, FTR updated Mrs N 
to say lender S hadnt found any PPI for her.
In August 2019, lender "T" told Mrs N that shed already been refunded for PPI that had 
been mis-sold to her. The first line of this letter says it's a response to the claim made by 
FTR to them about her PPI. And I can see that FTR also sent Mrs N an email a few days 
later to say that lender T had rejected her claim and the reasons why theyd made this 
decision.
In September 2019, lender H told Mrs N they were looking into her claim and asked her to 
complete a PPI questionnaire. The letter has a FTR claim reference number clearly visible 
on it.
FTRs records do say that if Mrs N didnt complete the PPI questionnaire they'd sent to her 
the case would be cancelled. But I can also see that FTR knew another PPI questionnaire 
had been sent by  lender H after theyd sent theirs. And that the lender would consider 
without the questionnaire, so the case remained active.
And in October 2019, following their investigation lender H sent their offer letter to Mrs N 
saying PPI had been mis-sold and the compensation they would pay for this. Again, FTRS 
claim reference number was clear to see.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
You may cancel Your Claim(s) at any time, up to 14 days from the date Your Claim(s) 
are submitted to the Company (Cooling-off Period) at no cost to You, unless You or FTR 
have received a reasonable offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period.
I havent seen any evidence that Mrs N tried to cancel the agreement or that she asked 
FTR why they were making claims for her. And I think Mrs N had the opportunity to  do this 
before lender "H" sent their offer letter.
I know Mrs N feels strongly that she hadnt authorised FTR to act for her. But in considering 
all the above Im satisfied Mrs N knew FTR were handling her PPI claims. So, Im satisfied 
Mrs N had authorised FTR to act on her behalf to pursue PPI claims for her.
FTR has charged Mrs N a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of 
work they actually did.This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be 
done for free. Where a claim was successful, FTRs fee may be more or less than the value 
of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
Mrs N had unsuccessful claims with lender S and lender T that FTR havent charged her 
a fee for. But her claim with lender H was successful.  So, I think FTR has acted fairly in 
charging Mrs N their success fee.
I can see from their terms and conditions that the success fee they would charge was 24% 
inclusive of VAT. As Mrs N had a successful claim Im satisfied this is the fee FTR can 
charge.
  
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman