DRN-4347734
The complaint
Mrs A complains Lloyds Bank PLC cant locate an account she held with them.
What happened
Mrs A says she had a very old Lloyds account which had money in it. She said due to her 
relocating, she did not keep track of the account, so she sent Lloyds her statements and all 
of the details of the account, but she cant find her money or the account. Mrs A made a 
complaint to Lloyds. 
Lloyds did not uphold Mrs As complaint. They said that despite contacting multiple 
departments regarding her account, they have been unsuccessful in locating any information 
on the account that she held with them, as part of the reason is due to the time that has 
passed and the type of account she held. Lloyds said they were unable to assist Mrs A any 
further in relation to the account. Mrs A brought her complaint to our service. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mrs As complaint. She said in situations such as this, our 
service would expect a bank to show that it undertook reasonable searches of the records it 
holds, to see whether any information on the account can be found. She said Lloyds have 
shown us that it undertook numerous searches, using the information provided by Mrs A, but 
there is no record of this account or the outstanding balance. She said it was more likely 
than not that the account was closed, and its not unexpected after 25 years, that Lloyds 
dont have any records to show exactly what happened.
Mrs A asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said she didnt believe she 
had been informed of the closure of her bank account and if it was closed, she asked where 
her money would be located now. She queried whether the funds could have been taken 
without her consent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mrs A is in the possession of statements for what appears to be two different 
accounts, this is not proof that the accounts still have funds in the accounts. It simply shows 
that at a point in time the accounts had funds in them at a particular time and that statements 
were issued on the account. 
I have thought about what I would expect Lloyds to do in these circumstances and if they 
have treated Mrs A fairly in their investigation and I think they have. They took the available 
information from her and conducted a search of their systems. But due to the time thats 
passed, Lloyds arent able to provide any more information about these accounts. As the 
statements are dated around 30 years ago and older, I cant say its unreasonable that 
Lloyds does not have any further information about these accounts. 
On the balance of probabilities, its likely these accounts were closed by Mrs A. I say this 
because if they were still open, then I would expect the search results from Lloyds to show 
an open account(s). Ive noted at least one of the accounts appeared to be automatically 
renewed on maturity  and more importantly didnt need Mrs As instruction to do so. 
Therefore if it was still open, it would be reasonable to expect Mrs A would have been sent 
out further statements, but there is no evidence of these accounts still being open, which 
would indicate they were closed.
Mrs A has queried whether the accounts could be closed without her consent. But on the 
balance of probabilities, it would be likely that she would have to sign and/or show 
identification to close the accounts, and therefore she would have instructed Lloyds what to 
do with the funds in the accounts, and she would have been aware she was closing the 
accounts. But ultimately, too long has passed to be able to say for certain what happened 
here. So it follows that I dont require Lloyds to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman