DRN-4227257
The complaint
Miss L complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) gave her a loan she couldnt afford.
What happened
Miss L was advanced one loan by MoneyBoat of £800 on 1 March 2022. Miss L was due to 
make six monthly repayments of £241.57. Miss L has had some problems repaying the loan 
and an outstanding balance remains due. 
In response to Miss Ls complaint, MoneyBoat explained why it wasnt going to uphold it. 
Miss L didnt agree, and instead referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was reviewed by an adjudicator, and he upheld it. He thought the credit check 
results MoneyBoat received indicated that Miss L was already having financial difficulties 
because she had recently had a number of accounts enter arrears. So, he didnt think the 
loan was sustainable for Miss L. 
MoneyBoat didnt agree with the outcome and it said that while it could see that Miss L was 
having some repayment difficulties, she had a good amount of disposable income to afford 
her loan repayments. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Miss L could afford to pay back the amount 
she had borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Ls income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss L. These factors include:
Miss L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss L. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Miss Ls complaint. 
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Miss L could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss L was able to 
repay her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ls complaint.
For this loan, Miss L declared she had a monthly income of £2,358. MoneyBoat says this 
figure was checked with a credit reference agency for its accuracy. Miss L declared her 
expenditure to be £800 per month. However, as part of the affordability check MoneyBoat 
said it did the following.
On your loan applications we increased the monthly expenditure that you input, on 
the basis that your credit report highlighted different expenditure than you had 
disclosed, and/or to bring you in line with the average expenditure listed on the 
Common Financial Statement.
As a result of these additional checks, MoneyBoat increased Miss Ls monthly expenditure 
by £50, giving her total monthly outgoings of £850. This left £1,508 per month of disposable 
income to meet the repayments Miss L was committed to making. Based solely on the 
income and expenditure information the loan looked affordable.  
MoneyBoat also carried out a credit check and a copy of the results have been provided to 
the Financial Ombudsman. It is entirely reasonable to consider these results to see what 
MoneyBoat knew about Miss Ls other credit commitments (and credit history) at the time it 
advanced the loan. 
MoneyBoat, just from the initial summary page knew Miss Ls debts amounted to just over 
£10,000 spread across 13 active credit accounts. Miss L was also using 95% of her 
revolving credit / budget accounts  which means she was overall, close to her existing 
credit limits. 
The adjudicator upheld this loan because in his view, there were already signs of financial 
difficulty  and having reviewed the search results I agree, and Ive outlined what Ive found 
below:
Miss L had one loan called Finance House which was one month in arrears and 
had entered arrears in February 2022. Miss L had entered into an arrangement to pay with a Finance House loan in 
February 2022. 
Miss Ls budget account was also showing one-month arrears from February 2022. 
A Finance House loan had been in arrears since December 2021, and by 
February 2022  was now showing as being two months in arrears. 
Miss L had seven active credit cards of which one was over the credit limit and a 
further three were within £10 of the prescribed credit limits. 
This data, which MoneyBoat had to hand clearly shows that Miss Ls finances were 
worsening the month before she was granted this loan. It also shows she was already 
having problems managing and repaying her existing credit commitments. So, I do think 
there was a real risk that Miss L would then have problems repaying this loan  which is 
what ultimately happened. 
Overall, taking account of what the credit check results showed, MoneyBoat ought to have 
concluded that there was enough evidence within the checks to indicate that Miss L was 
likely already having financial difficulties given the number of missed payments, an account 
subject to a payment arrangement and that she was over her credit limit with one credit card 
provider and within £10 of her limit on a further three cards. And in my view, further lending 
wasnt sustainable. 
I am therefore upholding Miss Ls complaint about the loan.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Miss L at all, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss L may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss L in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss L would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Miss L this loan. 
If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If MoneyBoat isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. MoneyBoat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of the 
loan, and treat any repayments made by Miss L as though they had been repayments of the principal towards the loan. If this results in Miss L having made 
overpayments then MoneyBoat should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree 
an affordable repayment plan with Miss L. But I would remind it of its obligation to 
treat Miss L fairly and with forbearance. 
C. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ls credit file in 
relation to the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Ls complaint.
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Miss L as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman