DRN-1705688
 
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1989. Mr R says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. I explain why below.
I think Bradford & Bingley Plc most likely made it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the 
PPI and he chose to take it. I say that because Bradford & Bingley Plc has provided the 
actual documentation from the time of the sale. To get the cover Mr R had to select it. The 
PPI is selected on the mortgage application form. Mr R says the form was filled in by the 
representative. But Mr R signed the form which suggests he agreed to its contents. So, 
considering the amount of time that has passed, it seems most likely that Mr R did choose 
the cover and did so knowing he had a choice about it  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this now, many years later
Bradford & Bingley Plc says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R and Ive been presented 
with no evidence of a personalised recommendation made to Mr R which considers his 
actual circumstances at the time of the sale. So Bradford & Bingley Plc didnt have to check 
if the PPI was right for Mr R. But it did have to make sure Mr R got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley Plc gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I dont 
think better information would have put him off the policy. I say that because Mr R was 
eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions from or 
limits to the PPI cover. 
And Ive considered that Mr R told us that whilst his sick pay was good initially, it dropped 
significantly after twelve months. Mr R also told us he had some other means he could have 
relied on in that circumstance or if he lost a job, and these may have lasted for over twelve 
months. This PPI policy could have paid out indefinitely, or until the mortgage was repaid at 
least, if Mr R was too ill to work for a long time and would have done so in addition to any 
sick pay arrangements Mr R may have had. 
And whilst Mr R told us his savings were significant, he was buying his first home and had 
chosen to protect the savings he told us he had rather than to have had a smaller mortgage. 
This policy would have further protected his savings in the event of long term ill health. And the policy would have paid out for up to 24 months if Mr R lost his job. So, I think the policy 
would have been useful to him if something went wrong. So, considering all of the above, 
and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on your home, I 
dont think better information about the PPI and its cost would have put Mr R off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said - including what he said about the case, but 
these points dont change my decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Bradford & Bingley Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6July2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman