DRN-1591165
The complaint
Mr M complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined his travel insurance claim. 
My references to IPA include its agents.
What happened
Mr M had travel insurance, insured by IPA. While on holiday abroad his mobile phone was 
stolen. He reported the theft to the police and made a claim.
Mr M told IPA that he had his waterproof phone with him while snorkelling to take photos. He 
came out of the water and sat on a bench next to his bag. He placed his snorkel and phone 
on the bench next to him on the opposite side to his bag. He took his clothes from his bag, 
put them on and put on his shoes. When he turned to get his snorkel and phone the phone 
was missing. He searched the area and spoke to staff and tourists (about 10 people) nearby 
but they said they hadnt seen the phone.
IPA declined the claim. It said Mr Ms phone was unattended, as defined by the policy terms, 
and the policy didnt cover an unattended phone.
Mr M complained to us. He wants IPA to accept his claim.
Our investigator said IPA couldnt fairly rely on the unattended exclusion to decline Mr Ms 
claim.
IPA disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. Mr M had told our investigator that his 
wife was in the vicinity and IPA said she would have got changed near Mr M. It said it was 
unrealistic that none of the small group of people where Mr M was changing didnt see what 
happened to the phone. IPA still thought the phone was unattended.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether IPA fairly and reasonably relied on the unattended exclusion to 
decline the claim, and I dont think it did. I uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy doesnt cover valuables (which includes personal mobile phones) left unattended. 
The policy defines unattended as:
When you are not in full view of and in a position to prevent unauthorised 
interference with your property.
Mr Ms given a detailed account of what happened. From what hes told IPA and us the 
phone was on the bench next to him, within arms reach and in full view, while he put on his 
shirt and shoes. He might not have been looking directly at his phone when he was getting 
changed but he didnt need to be constantly looking at the phone for it to reasonably be in 
full view. 
If Mr M had seen someone trying to take his phone I think he would been it a position to stop 
them. Mr M didnt see anyone trying to take his phone so couldnt try to prevent it, but that 
doesnt mean he wasnt in a position to do so.
Mr M told our investigator that as well as asking staff and other tourists he also went to ask 
his wife if shed seen the missing phone as she was also there but not next to him. IPA have 
assumed Mr Ms wife would have got changed near him but thats not what Mr M said and 
IPA cant fairly make that assumption.
IPA also says someone would have seen what happened to the phone. I also dont think it 
can fairly make that assumption and a theft doesnt have to be seen for it to be covered 
under the policy.
Im not persuaded the phone was unattended. IPA cant fairly and reasonably rely on the 
unattended exclusion to decline the claim.
Putting things right
IPA must accept Mr Ms claim subject to the remaining policy terms and limits. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to accept Mr Ms claim subject to the remaining policy 
terms and limits.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman