DRN-3326997
The complaint
Mr G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc hasnt reimbursed him the full amount 
he lost when he fell victim to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr G has provided his detailed recollections from the time, which I will summarise below. 
Mr G has held an account with NatWest for some time. In 2021, he saw a page on a popular 
photo and video sharing social media website. This was posted by a person who said they 
traded in foreign exchange (forex).
Mr G says the page looked convincing. It said the person was a trader and included posts 
which appeared to show both the trading activity and that they had made money for other 
people. Mr G says he chatted to the trader on the social media platform. She told him the 
minimum investment deposit needed was £600. 
He was told that he would receive a lump sum profit by 5pm that day. He was told it would 
normally be double his investment, and that there was very little chance of making a loss.
He was given a link to a name on the FCA register which was similar to the name of the 
social media account. That person appeared to work for a major international bank, which 
reassured Mr G.
Mr G then sent a payment of £600 by Faster Payments from his NatWest account to the 
details hed been provided. The payee name was not the same as the person he believed he 
had been dealing with.
Later that day, he was told trading had gone very well. He was told his investment was now 
worth in excess of £15,000. Because this return was high, he was told hed have to pay a 
£4,000 premium trading fee to withdraw his profits. 
Mr G says he asked if he couldnt just have that fee deducted from his profits and thought it 
didnt make sense to have to make a payment up front to get his money back. But he was 
told it didnt work like that and that someone else, supposedly an investment consultant from 
another investment firm, would call him to arrange for him to withdraw his profits. 
He explains at this point he thought it was somewhat fishy that the original person hed been 
dealing with wouldnt share her own contact number. But hed already invested £600 and felt 
he had no choice but to do what he was being told. He spoke to the supposed consultant via 
a different social media app, and says the consultant insisted he pay the £4,000 fee.
Mr G says told the consultant that £4,000 was too much, hed pay £2,000 initially then when 
he had the assurance of having had his profits returned, hed send the remainder of the fee.
The consultant agreed. Mr G sent a payment of £2,000, again by Faster Payments from his 
NatWest account. This went to a second account  again with a payee name that was 
different to that of either of the people Mr G had been speaking to.
Mr G says he was then ignored by both the supposed trader and investment consultant, then 
they blocked him on the social media platform. At this point Mr G realised this had been a 
scam, and reported his loss to NatWest.
NatWest attempted to recover funds from the recipient accounts. Unfortunately, the second 
payment had been removed by the scammers before it could be recovered. But the first 
payment was recovered in full. 
NatWest considered whether it ought to refund Mr G for the remaining loss. NatWest is a 
signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM 
Code), which provides additional protection to scam victims against the impact of authorized 
push payment scams. NatWest didnt think Mr G had taken sufficient care to check who he 
was paying. It therefore didnt think it was obliged to reimburse him in full under the CRM 
Code. But it said on a goodwill basis it would refund Mr G half of the remaining loss. 
Out of the original £2,600 Mr G had paid, a total of £1,600 was therefore either recovered or 
refunded to him. This left him out of pocket by £1,000.
Mr G asked our service to look into the matter. Our investigator thought NatWest had treated 
Mr G fairly, and in line with the CRM Code. He didnt think there were any other reasons he 
could fairly ask NatWest to pay Mr G more than the bank already had. He said the 
investment returns Mr G had been clearly too good to be true. He didnt think Mr G had 
taken appropriate steps to verify who he was dealing with when he made the two payments.
Mr G didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that while hed been at work at the 
time of the scam, the effect of it had caused him significant distress and led to him having to 
take time off work with anxiety and depression. He needed all of the money back to help with 
caring responsibilities. He said that in addition to what hed previously explained, hed also 
called both legitimate businesses that the scammers had claimed to work for and been told 
the names were those of people who did genuinely work there.
The investigator sympathised, but thought the outcome remained fair. In light of this 
disagreement I have been asked to review everything afresh and reach a final decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
I want to start by saying that Im extremely sorry to hear about what has happened to Mr G, 
and the impact these events have had on him. I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that all of his money should be returned to him.
Its important to clearly acknowledge that Mr G has been the innocent victim of a crime here. 
He details how he was cruelly deceived by a scam that lead him to believe he was investing 
his money and making huge profits. While some money was recovered, and some 
reimbursed, Mr G has still lost a significant sum as a result of this scam.
However, the main cause of these losses were the scammers who deceived Mr G. It does not necessarily follow that NatWest is responsible to reimburse him.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer 
even though they authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
NatWest should have reimbursed Mr G under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether 
it ought to have done more to protect him from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr G was tricked into making the two payments. He thought he 
was investing the initial payment in forex trading, and that the second payment was to allow 
the profits to be released to him. He was deceived by the people he was interacting with, 
and as Ive said, the innocent victim of a crime.
But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Mr G to receive a refund of the money under the 
CRM Code. The CRM Code requires a certain level of care to have been taken by Mr G too. 
Did NatWest assess Mr Gs fraud claim fairly under the CRM Code?
As Ive noted previously, the first payment was recovered in full. There is therefore no loss 
remaining to be reimbursed in respect of that transaction. The second payment is the one for 
which an outstanding loss remains, NatWest having refunded half the sum lost as a gesture 
of goodwill. 
I have carefully considered everything leading up to the second payment (including what had 
happened in relation to payment one). But as the loss remaining stems solely from payment 
two, it is that payment I must focus on when considering if NatWest should fairly and 
reasonably be responsible for refunding more than it already has.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to fully reimburse a customers loss if it can 
establish that - amongst other things - that customer made the payment(s) without having a 
reasonable basis for believing that:
- the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; 
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Ive taken into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of 
the customer and the complexity of the scam. Having done so, I think the concerns NatWest 
has raised about whether Mr G had a reasonable basis for belief about the points listed 
above are sufficient to support its position that he failed to meet his requisite level of care 
under the CRM Code in making payment two. Ill explain why.
Mr G originally thought the trader could double his money in less than a day through some 
type of foreign exchange trading with little risk of a loss. I find that the offered rate of return 
here, and the speed at which it would be generated  doubling his money in under twenty-
four hours  ought to have raised significant questions with Mr G. Doubling your money in a 
day with low risk simply sounds too good to be true. I think Mr G ought reasonably to have 
been sceptical about what he was being told. But by the time Mr G was making the second payment, hed been told hed not just doubled 
his investment, within the day it had risen to just over £15,000  which if true would equate 
to a return of almost 2500% in one day. This reasonably ought to have been a red-flag to 
Mr G that something might not be right. 
Whats more, from Mr Gs recollections, he was already starting to have concerns. He says 
he sensed something fishy when the trader wouldnt give him her contact number and told 
him hed need to speak to an investment consultant to release his money. He told us it made 
no sense to him that he had to send money over to release the money hed made - rather 
than letting him deduct the fee directly from the profits.
I can understand that Mr G wanted this to be true. He has told us he got carried away and 
has learned a valuable lesson from what happened. Based on everything Ive seen I find 
Mr G did recognise there was a risk here that it was not legitimate, but he decided to go 
ahead and take that risk in the hope of receiving significant returns.
Ive thought carefully about the steps Mr G says he took before sending the payment. 
However, Im not satisfied these were sufficient to have given him a reasonable basis for 
believing he was paying the person he was expecting to pay. 
Mr G took steps to verify that the names he was given by the supposed trader and 
investment consultant both corresponded to real names at financial businesses. But 
checking that the names were the same as people working in financial services didnt do 
anything to provide reassurance that the people he was speaking to (and so about to pay) 
were actually those people - rather than fraudsters simply using those names to scam him. 
In any event the payee name for the payment was different from the names the scammers 
had been using. Any belief in that corresponding to the person he was expecting to pay, was 
based on it having been told to him by the scammers, whose legitimacy as Ive explained 
above, hed should have already had significant cause to doubt.
Considering everything, I think its more likely than not Mr G made the payment knowing 
there was a significant risk it might not be legitimate. Even if he did not have doubts to that 
extent, I find it fair and reasonable to say he ought to have done - as there wasnt a 
reasonable basis for belief in what he was promised. 
In light of the above, Im satisfied that the bank has established that it is entitled to apply an 
exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code.
Ive thought about whether Mr G might have met the definition under the CRM Code of a 
vulnerable customer at the time of the payment  being unable to protect himself from the 
scam. If that were the case, then NatWest would not be entitled to rely on the above 
exception. 
Mr G has explained about the circumstances he was in at the time, and the subsequent 
troubles he faced in trying to recover the loss. He says hes since had to take time off work. I 
am sorry to hear about the impact this had on him, and Ive thought carefully about whether 
that might mean he was not able to take steps to protect himself from this type of scam.
But at the time of the scam he explains he was at work, and that he used his work phone to 
make some related calls. Those calls were an attempt to check what he was being told. 
Considering all of the evidence this supports a finding that at the time of the scam Mr G did 
identify concerns and was able to take some steps.
So all things considered I dont find that Mr G was unable to take further steps to protect himself. That is not to diminish the circumstances he was in at the time, or the subsequent 
impact the scam had on him. It is simply that I dont find NatWests assessment under the 
CRM Code to be at fault here.
Amongst other factors, Ive also considered that the CRM Code requires that where firms 
identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they should provide Effective Warnings to 
their customers. 
I havent made a finding on whether NatWest met that requirement. However, even were I to 
find that NatWest failed to deliver a warning to the required standard here, where it can be 
established that a customer has not met the required level of care, the CRM Code says 
liability should be shared equally with the customer. Here Ive found that NatWest has 
established that Mr G didnt meet that level of care, and so the banks offer to reimburse half 
his loss already has the effect of sharing the liability equally with him. I cant fairly require it 
to do more.
Should NatWest have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Mr G? 
Besides considering whether NatWest fairly assessed Mr Gs claim under the CRM Code, 
Ive thought about whether NatWest did enough to protect Mr G from financial harm.
When Mr G made this payment, NatWest should fairly and reasonably have had systems in 
place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers 
were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
But having carefully considered the payment history on Mr Gs account in the year leading 
up to the scam, Im satisfied that the two payments involved were unremarkable transactions 
 I cant reasonably conclude that they should have stood out enough from Mr Gs typical 
transaction patterns for NatWest to have been concerned that he might have been at risk of 
financial harm from fraud. So, I do not find NatWest at fault here.
Once it was made aware of the scam, NatWest acted quickly and appropriately to try to 
recover the funds Mr G had sent, but while it was successful in respect of payment one 
nothing remained from payment two. Unfortunately, it is not unusual that scammers will 
quickly move funds on leaving nothing to be retrieved and the evidence supports that being 
the case here. I dont think there was anything further I could reasonably have expected from 
NatWest in the attempts it made here to recover Mr Gs lost money.
Overall 
In saying this, I want to reiterate that I am extremely sorry to hear about what happened to 
Mr G, and I am sorry he has lost out. But I cant fairly hold NatWest responsible for the 
criminal actions of the scammers. I can only look at its assessment of Mr Gs fraud claim 
against the requirements of CRM Code and the other obligations it had at the time.
And having carefully considered all of the available evidence, I dont require NatWest to 
reimburse more than the 50% figure it has already offered in respect of the second payment. 
I dont require it to do anything further than it has already offered to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint about 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman