The complaint
Mr K complains that a used car he acquired under a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn Limited (Moneybarn) wasnt of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose contrary to 
the requirements of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). As a result he has suffered loss.
What happened
Mr K entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in respect of the car in 
November 2018. The car was then some six years old, and it had a recorded mileage of 
57,778 miles. The cash price of the car was £4,975, and Mr K agreed to pay this and finance 
charges by 59 monthly instalments of £158.46 each
Mr K says he was unhappy with the transmission of the car soon after delivery. But as a new 
driver he didnt realise there was a fault until it broke down in April 2019. Mr K obtained a 
diagnostic report, which indicated a number of faults with the transmission. He sent this to 
Moneybarn in April 2019.
Moneybarn quickly arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent motor engineer 
(IME). The inspection was carried out on 29 April 2019. The IME agreed that there were 
faults in the transmission which required substantial repairs. He concluded that these faults 
were likely to have been developing at the time of delivery to Mr K.
Moneybarn gave the supplying dealer the opportunity to carry out the required repairs, but it 
didnt respond. So in June 2019 Moneybarn agreed to accept the return of the car and to 
cancel the conditional sale agreement from the date Mr K complained to it in April 2019.
Moneybarn refunded the payments Mr K had made after the date of his complaint. It 
refunded a further months instalment as a contribution towards the cost of the replacement 
car Mr K had to buy after this car broke down. And it paid him £100 as compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
Mr K complained to us. He thought Moneybarn should have refunded more than this 
because of the inconvenience he had suffered. In particular, he said that as he was self -
employed, the breakdown of the car meant he had suffered a loss of earnings.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said we wouldnt 
normally consider loss of earnings as this was difficult to quantify and prove.
Moneybarn had acted quickly to accept the return of the car. It had refunded payments for 
the car from the date of breakdown onwards. It had also paid Mr K compensation which he 
thought was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr K responded to say, in summary, that:
DRN-1399373he was having problems with the car for some time before he contacted Moneybarn;
he thought his loss of earnings should be taken into account;
he also lost earnings due to the car being unreliable before it finally broke down;
Moneybarn had offered the opportunity for him to get a rental car when the car broke
down. But this wasnt a possibility as it was less than a year since he had passed his
driving test;
Moneybarn had talked of refunding the full amount of the replacement car he had to
get, but in the event only made a small contribution;
he had to continue paying business insurance while he was without a car until he
could obtain a replacement car; and
he had to pay for sign writing on the car for his business, the benefit of which he lost
after the car was returned.
Overall, Mr K thought he should receive more of his money back from Moneybarn because 
of the stress and inconvenience he had endured. So this complaint has been passed to me 
to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At my request, the investigator asked Mr K to supply further information and evidence so that 
I could fully consider the points he made in response to the investigators recommendation. 
However, Mr K hasnt responded to the investigator. 
When Mr K complained to Moneybarn in April 2019, it quickly arranged for the car to be 
inspected, and accepted the result of that inspection. It cancelled the conditional sale 
agreement as from the date of the complaint, refunded a further months instalment, and 
paid Mr K £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
On the information and evidence available to me, I think Moneybarn treated Mr K fairly and 
reasonably, and I cant reasonably require it to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Moneybarn 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman