DRN-4368424
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he was the victim 
of a scam.
What happened
In early 2023, Mr A was looking for work and had applied for a number of jobs through a 
number of recruitment companies. He then received a message via an instant messaging 
app from someone who said they worked for one of the recruitment companies hed applied 
through before, asking if they could pass his details on to a marketing company that was 
hiring. Mr A agreed and was then sent the details for a group chat run by the marketing 
company.
Someone from the marketing company then contacted him and explained the job involved 
completing orders for products, and that he would earn commission on each order he 
completed. He was shown how to set up an account on the marketing companys system 
and then make payments to fund the orders he would complete. Mr A then made a number 
of payments from his Monzo account to the account details the marketing company gave 
him.
Ive set out the payments Mr A made below, as well as some credits he received:
Date Details Amount
6 January 2023 £112
6 January 2023 Credit from marketing company £123.27 credit
6 January 2023 £212
6 January 2023 Credit from marketing company £233.20 credit
6 January 2023 £5,202.36
Unfortunately, we now know the marketing company was a scam. The scam was uncovered 
when the marketing company told Mr A hed need to pay more money in before he could 
complete the latest order hed funded. Mr A said he couldnt afford to pay the amount they 
were asking for, so the company said the order would be cancelled and ultimately removed 
him from the group chat. Mr A then reported the scam to Monzo and asked it to refund the 
money he had lost.
Monzo investigated but said it had shown Mr A a warning before he made the first payment 
and had executed the payments in line with his instructions. It also said it didnt think Mr A 
had taken the steps it would have expected to check who he was paying. So it didnt agree 
to refund the money he had lost. Mr A wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so referred a 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think Mr A had a reasonable 
basis for belief when making the payments. But they also thought Monzo has failed to show 
an effective warning when it should have done. So they recommended Monzo refund 50% of 
the money Mr A had lost. Mr A accepted what our investigator said but Monzo disagreed, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code) but has said it is committed to applying the principles set out in it. This code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of authorised push payment 
scams, like the one Mr A fell victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it is 
for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mr A have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
Monzo has argued that Mr A didnt take enough steps to check who he was paying and what 
for, and so didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments. And I 
appreciate that this was a sophisticated scam where Mr A had spoken to several people and 
been given an account where he could monitor his orders. But I also think there were a 
number of things about what was happening and what he was told that should have caused 
him significant concern.
He doesnt appear to have received a contract or any other documents relating to his 
employment by the marketing company. All the contact he had with both the recruitment 
company and the marketing company was through an instant messaging service, which isnt 
what Id expect from professional companies and isnt how hes said he was contacted by 
this recruitment company previously. And he was told he had to pay upfront before he could 
do any work for the company, which I think is unusual  particularly for the kind of work he 
thought he was doing. And so I think these things should all have caused him some concern.
Mr A doesnt appear to have done significant checks into who the marketing company was, 
or whether the people he was speaking to were connected to either the recruitment company 
or the marketing company. And given the amount of money he was ultimately sending them, 
I think it would be reasonable to expect him to have done more checks into these things 
before going ahead.
The amount Mr A was initially told he could earn was relatively high for what appears to be 
relatively little and relatively straightforward work, especially when there didnt appear to be 
any application or recruitment process necessary. So I think this should have caused Mr A some concern that what he was being told was too good to be true. And he was then later 
told he would be earning commission, which is different to what he was initially told and so I 
think this should also have caused him some concern.
Mr A was also asked to make the payments to an account in the name of a different 
company to the one he thought he was working for. And he doesnt appear to have been 
given any explanation or this. So I think this should have caused him significant concern.
While Mr A did try to check the marketing company was legitimate, I think the issues Ive 
mentioned above should have caused him significant concern. And I dont think the 
seemingly genuine information he saw from the checks he did should have been enough to 
overcome those concerns.
So I think Monzo has established that Mr A made the payments without a reasonable basis 
for belief that they were genuine. And so it has established that one of the exceptions to 
reimbursement under the CRM code applies here, and it does not have to refund Mr A all of 
the money he lost.
Did Monzo meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think Mr A had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments, 
he may still be entitled to a refund of some of the money he lost if Monzo didnt meet its 
obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings when it 
identifies a scam risk.
The first two payments Mr A made werent for what Id consider to be particularly large 
amounts. There had been other payments out of his account for similar amounts in the 
months beforehand and the payments didnt leave the balance of his account at a 
particularly unusual level. So I dont think Monzo ought to have identified a scam risk as a 
result of these first two payments.
But the third payment Mr A made, for £5,202.36, was for a significantly larger amount and 
was significantly larger than the payments usually made from his account. So I think Monzo 
ought to have identified a scam risk as a result of this payment, and shown Mr A an effective 
warning before allowing it to go through.
The CRM code says that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
Monzo has sent us a copy of the warning it says Mr A was shown, which said:
Could someone be trying to scam you?
Stop if:
You were told your account is at risk, to make an unexpected payment, or to take out 
a loan
The offer sounds too good to be true
You havent double-checked who youre payingYou were told to ignore warnings like this
You may lose money if this is a scam.
If youre at all unsure, stop and get advice.
While the warning does mention offers that are too good to be true and double-checking who 
you are paying, the rest of the things mentioned in it arent really relevant to Mr As 
circumstances. The warning doesnt give much detail about what this kind of scam could 
look or feel like. And I dont think it does enough to highlight the seriousness of the risks or 
what steps someone could take to try to avoid falling victim to a scam.
So I dont think this warning was specific or impactful enough to be effective in Mr As 
circumstances. And so I dont think Monzo has met its obligations under the CRM code.
Overall then, I think Monzo has established that Mr A made the payments without a 
reasonable basis for belief that they were genuine. But I also think Monzo has failed to meet 
its obligations in relation to the third payment. So I think Mr A is entitled to a refund of 50% of 
the third payment under the CRM code.
As Mr A had received returns from the first two payments which were larger than the 
amounts he had paid in, I think it would be fair to deduct this profit he made from the amount 
he lost from the third payment. And so I think it would be fair to require Monzo to refund 50% 
of the loss he suffered, calculated as the third payment minus the profit Mr A made from the 
first two payments.
I also think this third payment was large and unusual enough that, in addition to its 
responsibilities under the CRM code, Monzo should have identified Mr A was potentially at 
risk of fraud as a result of it, and so intervened to carry out additional checks before allowing 
it to go through. And that, if it had done so, the scam would likely have been uncovered and 
the loss prevented at that point. So I think Monzo should pay interest on the refund from the 
date of the payment, until the date of settlement.
Did Monzo do enough to try to recover the money Mr A lost?
We expect banks to take reasonable steps to try to recover the money their customers have 
lost, once they are made aware of a scam.
But the bank the money was sent to has told us the money was removed from the accounts 
it was sent to almost immediately after Monzo was made aware of the scam. So I dont think 
anything we would reasonably have expected Monzo to do could have recovered the money 
Mr A lost, and so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Monzo Bank Ltd 
to:
Refund Mr A 50% of the money he lost  totalling £2,584.95
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date of the third payment until the 
date of settlementUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman