DRN-1294629
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr M says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
The policy was sold over 14 years ago, so it isnt surprising that Mr M and Halifax have 
divergent testimony about the events of the sale. I also have to take into account that 
memories can fade over time. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, to decide 
what is most likely to have happened. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this now, many years 
later. I say this because Ive been given a copy of the application form Mr M 
completed at the time. I can see that to get the PPI Mr M had to tick for it on the form 
and then sign for it. And signing for the cover was something that was separate to the 
signing for the credit. There is nothing in the form which suggests that Mr M had to 
tick for the cover to get the credit. So, I think it more likely that the business gained 
Mr Ms agreement to take the cover and made it clear to Mr M that he had a choice 
about taking the policy.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr M. This means Halifax had to make sure 
the policy was suitable for Mr M. And looking at his circumstances at the time I think 
it was. For example, he was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And he seems to have had a need for the 
cover. I say this as whilst Mr Ms initial sick pay was generous, after 26 weeks it 
dropped significantly, such that Mr M may have had to rely on some savings he had. 
Mr M hasnt been able top provided any evidence to support his testimony about the 
savings he had. Maybe thats not surprising as these events did happen a long time 
ago and Mr M said he couldnt be sure about the size of the savings. But without the 
clarity some evidence would have provided, Ive been unable top place the sort of 
weight on this aspect of his circumstances that Mr M may have wished me to. So, as 
this policy couldve covered 10% of his monthly balance for up to 12 months, as it 
wouldve paid in addition to, and potentially for longer than, any other pay he may 
have received, and would have protected his savings, I think Mr M couldve found 
this cover useful.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons, given above, that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover.
 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr M back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. Halifax will make arrangements to pay Mr M 
now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt already done so. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against this complaint Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman