DRN-2683888
The complaint
L Ltd complains (through its director Mr K) that Brightside Insurance Services Limited 
mishandled a taxi fleet insurance policy.
 
What happened
Im satisfied that L Ltd falls within the definition of a micro-enterprise - and we can deal with
its complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a complaint against one regulated financial
firm at a time. In our final decision we name that firm, but we dont name anyone else.
L Ltd owned a fleet of cars. Brightside acted as an intermediary between L Ltd and an
insurer. In March 2018, L Ltd took out a taxi fleet insurance policy. In March 2019, L Ltd
renewed the insurance policy. L Ltd paid a deposit of about £2,000.00 and agreed to pay the 
balance by instalments.
In October 2019, Brightside or the insurer cancelled the policy. Mr K complained to
Brightside that it had mis-sold the policy.
Brightside sent a final response dated 12 December 2019. It asked L Ltd to pay about
£9.915.00. Unhappy with that, Mr K brought L Ltds complaint to us in mid-December 2019.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the
policy hadnt been suitable for L Ltd. She said this had caused the inconvenience of having
to find alternative insurance arrangements and having to notify clients. She recommended
that Brightside should:
1. write a letter to L Ltd confirming the policy was mis-sold; and
2. waive or pay to the insurer any outstanding premiums from the date of 
cancellation; and
3. pay L Ltd £250.00 for inconvenience.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to L Ltd 
and to Brightside on 3 December 2020. I summarise my findings:
Brightside hadnt shown us how it calculated the figure of about £9,915.00 it claimed 
from L Ltd after the cancellation.
I wouldnt find it fair for Brightside to claim its commission from L Ltd insofar as it had 
kept commission from the insurer. And I wouldnt find it fair for Brightside to charge 
commission to L Ltd save insofar as Brightside can show us that it is proportionate to 
the administrative work it did in renewing the policy  with no element of profit.
Subject to any further information from L Ltd or from Brightside, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Brightside Insurance 
Services Limited to:
1. provide L Ltd with a clear statement of how it calculated the figure of about 
£9,915.00; and
2. not ask L Ltd to pay any more than the balance due to the insurer or any provider of 
credit for the premium plus Brightsides cancellation fee of £75.00.
L Ltd (through Mr K) disagrees with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
Brightside sold the wrong type of insurance cover to him in phone calls which they 
didnt provide to us. As a result, his business revenue has never been the same.
Because Brightside cancelled the policy and refused to provide him with the claims 
experience, he is not able to get an insurance quote from anywhere else. 
Brightside hasnt provided evidence to support the claim of over £9,000.00.
The annual accounts will support his claim.
He asks all of the drivers to arrange their own insurance. Some of them are able to 
get it but not most.
Brightside has responded to the provisional decision as follows:
It has sent a breakdown indicating the following:
Premium paid to insurer £13,044.14
Broker fee £  2,000.00
Finance fee £       25.00
Total cost £15,069.14
Deposit paid             (£  1,999.67)
Loan amount £13,069.47
Paid            (£  3,153.58)
Balance £  9,915.00 
It says it has provided administration support for this policy, by way of arranging the 
policy, issuing documents, processing mid-term changes and also cancelling the 
policy.
It says that the consumer had benefitted from the insurance cover in respect of 
making claims. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Brightside hasnt provided us with the relevant call recording when it set up the policy fromMarch 2018. So Brightside hasnt shown that L Ltd, or Mr K on its behalf, made anything
other than a fair representation of the risk. 
From what happened in 2019, I find that Brightside had arranged a taxi fleet policy that 
wasnt suitable for the nature of L Ltds business.
I find it likely that in March 2018 L Ltd received Brightsides terms of business  and that
those terms were substantially the same as its terms of business in March 2019.
From the renewal documents for the year from March 2019, I see that the policy premium 
payable to the insurer - was £13,044.14.
From the recent breakdown, I find that Brightside is saying that the policy premium included 
commission of £1,164.65 payable by the insurer to Brightside.
Brightsides terms of business included the following:
Cancellation charge outside the cooling off period £75.00 cancellation charge in
addition to the commission earned by us for placing the insurance.
The terms of business also included the following:
Where we may or the insurer may cancel your cover
We or the insurer may cancel the policy if there is a good reason for doing so
For cancellations after the initial 14 day cooling off period we will deduct any non-
refundable charges from the amount of premium returned to us by the insurer and:
 The cost of all add-on products that you purchased (where applicable)
 The commission earned by us for placing your insurance plus £75.00 set out in the 
policy and administration charges section of this document.
The terms of business also included the following:
If you have paid by instalments we will credit any outstanding premium finance. If
you have paid by instalments there may be an amount still to pay on cancellation
rather than a refund
From the call recording of 7 March 2019, I note that Mr K said some of the drivers had last
year had problems uploading the certificate of insurance to the system of a well-known app.
From this, I find that Mr K was open about the involvement of the app. I consider that
Brightside shouldve made further enquiries at that stage about whether L Ltd was a taxi
operator.
It was not until 10 October 2019 that Brightside told Mr K it had referred to the insurer and
the policy didnt cover L Ltds vehicles for self-drive hire.
On 18 October 2019, Brightside gave a seven-day notice of cancellation. It cited failure to
answer questions asked by the insurer including whether L Ltd had a taxi fleet operators
licence.
I find that it was the insurer that had taken the decision to cancel unless L Ltd gave
satisfactory answers to its questions. On 25 October 2019, the insurer sent confirmation of
cancellation. As theres no evidence that Brightside had seen a taxi fleet operators licence
for L Ltd, I dont find that Brightside couldve persuaded the insurer not to cancel. So I dont
hold Brightside responsible for the cancelation.Brightside has provided us with brief details of the claims experience of L Ltd. That includes
two reported incidents in the policy year March 2018 to March 2019 and eight reported
incidents in the policy period March 2019 to October 2019. I accept Brightsides statement
that the insurer hasnt treated the policy as void  and is dealing with the claims.
So I cant say that the taxi fleet policy was one from which L Ltd could never benefit. I find 
that L Ltd has received the benefit of cover and has made claims. Therefore I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct Brightside to compensate L Ltd for mis-sale of the policy.
L Ltd had the benefit of cover and made claims. And Brightside had no control over the
insurers decision not to rebate the premium on cancellation. In any event I wouldnt expect
the insurer to rebate the premium as there had been claims before the cancellation.
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Brightside to take any steps to relieve L Ltd of
its liability to pay the balance of that premium or any balance due to the provider of credit for
the premium.
Im satisfied that  in response to the provisional decision - Brightside has shown us how it 
calculated the figure of about £9,915.00 it claimed from L Ltd after the cancellation. 
Brightside has told us that it earned commission of £1,164.65. Theres no suggestion that 
the insurer clawed any of it back on cancellation. So Brightside isnt claiming commission 
from L Ltd.
From its breakdown, I note that Brightside isnt asking L Ltd to pay its cancellation fee of
£75.00. 
In response to the provisional decision, Mr K has shown us an email from another broker 
declining to quote until it received L Ltds fleet claims history or claims experience. But Ive 
seen an email to L Ltd dated 11 February 2020 sending it the claims experience.
Mr K has sent us the accounts of L Ltd for the year ended 31 July 2020. They contain the 
comparable figures for the previous year. So I can see the reduction in turnover from about 
£76,000.00 to about £47,000.00 and the deterioration from a profit of about £1,977.00 to a 
loss of about £2,200.00.
But I havent held Brightside responsible for the cancelation in October 2019. And I find it 
likely that the pandemic mustve adversely affected L Ltd from March 2020. So I dont find it 
fair and reasonable to direct Brightside to pay L Ltd compensation for loss of profits.
  
Putting things right
Overall I find it fair and reasonable to direct Brightside not to ask L Ltd to pay any more than 
£9,915.00, the balance due to the insurer or the provider of credit for the premium.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Brightside Insurance Services Limited to:
1. not ask L Ltd to pay any more than £9,915.00 the balance due to the insurer or 
the provider of credit for the premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021. Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman