DRN-2117297
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr W say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs R and Mr W took out a PPI policy in 2007 at the same time as they applied for a new 
mortgage. The sale took place in one of the banks branches. The cover protected them 
against accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R and Mr W disagreed so the complaint 
was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs R and Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Mrs R and Mr W that the PPI was optional, and they had 
to agree to take it out. Mrs R and Mr W say they didnt know they had PPI and would not 
knowingly have taken it out. I cant know what was said in the meeting, but I have looked at 
the available paperwork from the sale.
On Mrs R and Mr Ws mortgage application they indicated they wanted PPI, and an option to 
decline it was set out with equal prominence. In their mortgage offer the insurance section 
said you are not obliged to take out any insurance through Alliance & Leicester and it made 
clear only buildings insurance was a condition of the mortgage. PPI was listed under the 
heading Optional Insurance and the cost was set out separately.
The PPI welcome letter they were sent started Thank you for making a positive choice. 
which also suggests to me the policy was presented to them as optional. So overall, I think 
Santander made Mrs R and Mr W aware the PPI was optional, and they agreed to take it 
out. I can understand they might not remember this given how long ago the sale was.
I think Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs R and Mr W, so it had to make sure it
was right for them. Based on their circumstances at the time I think it was suitable. I say this 
because:
They were eligible for the cover. And it seems there wasnt anything in the PPI that 
would make it difficult for them to claim  for example, the type of employment 
contract they had when the PPI was sold or any pre-existing medical conditions. So 
they wouldnt have been affected by the main exclusions or limitations in the policy.
Mrs R and Mr W cant recall their sick pay entitlements, but the PPI wouldve paid out 
in addition to their work benefits and for up to 12 months. It also gave them up to 12 
months redundancy cover. The PPI wouldve allowed them to use any savings to 
pay for other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for their future 
needs. They also say they had life and critical illness cover but this offers a different 
kind of protection against different events and wouldnt help with monthly mortgage 
repayments in the same way as PPI. Mrs R and Mr W were borrowing a large 
amount over a long time secured on their home. Given the serious consequences of 
missing mortgage payments, I think the policy wouldve been useful for Mrs R and Mr 
W if they were sick, had an accident or lost their job(s).
Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy was unaffordable at the time of the sale.
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading at the time 
of the sale. And I think its possible it didnt give all the details it shouldve. However, for the 
same reasons I find the policy was suitable, I dont think better information wouldve changed 
their decision. I say this as Mrs R and Mr W dont appear to have been affected by any of 
main exclusions or limitations, and the PPI was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable.
It follows I dont think Mrs R and Mr W lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman