DRN-2652403
The complaint
Miss H says Complete Cover Group Limited (CCG) - the broker that arranged her motor
insurance policy - gave her misleading information, leading to financial loss.  
What happened
 Miss H bought a van on finance. She then bought insurance for the van through CCG, also
on finance, with a different finance firm. Both firms were part of the same group and had
similar names - but CCG wasnt aware of the finance on the van.
In April 2019, only five months after Miss H bought the van, it broke down. As it was under
warranty, Miss H contacted the warranty company and had the van assessed at a garage.
The repairs were estimated at around £4,000. The garage said it was beyond repair as a
new engine was needed and the van was worth no more than £3,000. The warranty firm said
the contribution from it would be 50% of the cost of new parts, if the claim was covered.
Miss H told CCG the van had broken down and that she wanted to put the insurance on hold
until the warranty firm paid out. CCGs advisor said shed have to have the repairs done
within 28 days or the policy would be cancelled, unless she added another vehicle to it. The
advisor also said Ms H could cancel the policy herself. Miss H decided to do that, as the
advisor had said the finance on it would be paid off once the cancellation charge of £58 was
paid. She said it would be for Miss H do decide what to do with the van.
Miss H cancelled the policy. She was then advised by the firm that was financing the van
that she hadnt paid the monthly instalment on the loan. The advisor she spoke to about it
believed that Miss H was talking about the finance on the cancelled insurance policy, so he
told her to ignore the letter, as she didnt owe anything. At that point, Miss H made it clear to
CCG that there was finance on the van, as well as finance on the insurance for it. The
advisor said CCG only dealt with the finance for the vans insurance.
Miss H says CCG misled her in saying that the finance would be paid off, and that had it not
done so, she wouldnt have cancelled the insurance and would have tried to get the van
repaired within 28 days. She thinks CCG is to blame for her being pursued by debt collectors
for money due on the finance agreement for the van - which remains unrepaired.
CCG told us it doesnt arrange finance for vehicle purchases. It says in the calls between
Miss H and its advisors, the parties were sometimes speaking at cross-purposes. But its
advisors had no reason to think that Miss H was talking about two finance agreements,
whereas she was fully aware of that fact. CCG thought one advisor may have contributed to
the confusion, so it offered Miss H £100 compensation.
One of our investigators considered Miss Hs complaint. He said he thought CCGs offer
would have been acceptable had Miss H only suffered a loss of expectation. But he was
persuaded that had she known the finance agreement on the van was still in place, she
would have had it repaired. He said the warranty firm was prepared to pay for half the parts
needed for the repair and that in April 2019 the finance owing on the van was £3,462.72. He
said CCG should pay Miss H the £100 it had offered, but in addition, it should pay her the
sum owing on the finance agreement, minus half the cost of new parts.
CCG didnt think that was reasonable. It said Miss H knew shed entered into two separate
loan agreements. The finance for the van was spread over 36 monthly payments, whilst the
finance plan for the insurance was only spread over 12 months. CCG said it couldnt see
why Miss H would have thought cancelling a 12-month insurance policy (and paying off the
limited finance on it) meant the larger 36-month finance loan on the van would end too.
CCG also said Miss H had created the confusion and that when she finally told an advisor
she had a finance agreement for the van, he told her that CCG wasnt involved in that. In
CCGs view, Miss Hs real complaint was having a van that wasnt fit for purpose, yet still
had to be paid for on finance. CCG said shed told it at the start that the van was beyond
repair and needed a new engine. It confirmed that it did not advise Miss H to scrap the van.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows: 
Having heard all the calls between Miss H and CCGs advisors, I think its fair to say that
Miss H created the confusion in them. Ill explain why:
Its clear from the second call Miss H had with the first advisor that that both finance 
agreements were on Miss Hs mind. She asked the advisor to confirm that they were
discussing the finance she was paying at £208 per month. The advisor confirmed it.
Miss H was paying also paying £108 for the finance on the van - but the advisor
didnt know that, and Miss H didnt mention it. So the cancelation figures the advisor
provided only included the finance payment for the insurance CCG had arranged.
Miss H had three calls with the next advisor. The second was a continuation of the
first - in which Miss H had queried the cost of the cancellation. After advisor two had
checked the figures, Miss H said she wasnt sure if she was speaking to the insurer
or to the firm that had financed the van. The advisor told her she was speaking to her
broker. I dont think it was wrong for him not to assume that Miss Hs passing
reference to the firm that financed the van should be queried. All the calls with her so
far were solely about the insurance policys cancellation and the finance on it.
Advisor two said during the second call that the cancellation through CCG meant
there was nothing further for Miss H to pay - which was correct. CCG had only
arranged one finance plan for her. But in his third call with Miss H (the continuation of
call two) Miss H said she owned the van, which was on finance. I think it may have
been better service for the advisor to have queried the issue at this point. But I can
see why he didnt think it was relevant to the discussion they were having about the
policy cancellation - or assume that Miss H wasnt dealing with the other finance firm.
I dont think its fair to say that CCG misled Miss H. She told us shed explained to CCG
numerous times that the van was on finance, but the calls show that isnt the case. I think
holding CCG wholly at fault places far too much weight on advisor two not realising the
significance of Miss Hs comments. As far as he knew, she was dealing with the issue of the
vans finance. I think that was a fair assumption to make, as CCG had only ever dealt with
the finance for the insurance policy.
CCG says advisor two was inexperienced. I think its possible that a more experienced
advisor may have told Miss H that the vans finance wasnt something CCG knew about.
That may have prompted her to call the other finance firm. But in my opinion, without any
prompting from CCG, Miss H should have ensured that she took the finance owed on the
van into account before she decided to cancel the insurance policy and not repair the van. Idont think most consumers would have assumed that paying off the insurance on a vehicle
would mean the loan for the vehicle it covered would also be paid off.
Miss H had all the paperwork from the two finance firms. She was making two separate
payments from the start, with different reference numbers, for different amounts, through two
direct debit plans. I think it would have been obvious from the documents Miss H held from
the finance firms that only one of the finance agreements was connected to CCG. And if she
had any doubt about the situation, she could have informed CCG at the outset about the two
finance plans. I think the onus was on Miss H to make the situation clear to CCG, as it could
only base its advice on the information she gave it.
Miss H says she would have acted differently had CCG told her the vans finance agreement
was still in place. As Ive said, I dont think the onus was on CCG to do that. I think Miss H
should have known it was still in place. But in any event, I cant be sure what Miss H would
have done. It isnt clear whether the warranty firm would have paid anything towards the
repairs, as that was subject to the warrantys terms and conditions. Miss H might have had
to pay the full cost of repairs. She still had the van when she realised that finance on it was
still owed. So regardless of the insurance having been cancelled, she could still have had it
repaired and reinsured it, whilst continuing with the finance payments.
Theres no doubt that Miss H found herself in a very difficult financial situation, which must
have been distressing for her. CCG has already offered Miss H £100 compensation, but as I
dont think it was responsible for what happened, I dont think it would be fair to require it to
pay her for the remaining sum due on the vans finance agreement.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. CCG accepted them. Miss H said 
she didnt create the confusion. She thought CCG had withheld evidence and hadnt sent us 
copies of all the call recordings. She said the insurance company and the finance company 
were the same firm and that shed been penalised by CCGs advisor being inexperienced. 
She also said the warranty firm would have paid half the cost of a new engine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Miss H feels strongly that we havent had all the evidence from CCG that it 
could have provided. But theres no evidence of that. I think it provided all the necessary call 
recordings in order for me to be able to make an informed decision about the complaint. 
As I said in my provisional findings, the two finance firms Miss H used were part of the same 
group, but they were separate firms. I think Miss H had enough information from each firm 
for her to be able to differentiate between them. I dont think CCG caused any confusion 
about that. It wasnt aware of the second finance arrangement initially as Miss H didnt 
mention it until much later on. I dont think Miss H was penalised by talking to an 
inexperienced advisor. But CCG accepted that he could have provided better service  
hence its offer of £100 compensation. I still think that was reasonable. 
In terms of the warranty firm, the notes show that Miss Hs partner was thinking of looking for 
a new engine in April 2019. The firm said it would need to come with a guarantee in order for 
it to potentially be in a position to assist Miss H.  Its last note says Miss H had involved the 
finance firm and it was waiting to hear further from her. As I said in my provisional decision, I 
dont think its clear what the warranty firm would have done had Miss H pursued her claim 
with it, but it would have been subject to its terms and conditions  and a guarantee.I know Miss H isnt happy with the outcome of the claim or with my decision. But as I think 
CCG acted reasonably in general and offered her compensation for an incident of poor 
service, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask it to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Complete Cover Group 
Limited to pay Miss H £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience, as it has already 
agreed to do.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman