DRN-3407714
The complaint
Mr F complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt immediately refund him for payments he 
didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr F reported four unauthorised transactions to HSBC. HSBC carried out an investigation 
into the transactions. During this investigation Mr F recognised one of the transactions.
A further transaction was refunded by the retailer. This left two payments Mr F said he didnt 
authorise. HSBC finished its investigation and concluded Mr F had authorised the payments, 
so it didnt refund either of them.
HSBC sent a final response and Mr F contacted it. Mr F wasnt happy hed not been given 
an immediate refund, as the relevant legislation lays out, and he felt the investigation had 
taken too long.
HSBC sent a follow up final response and paid Mr F £100 for the time it had taken to 
investigate the unauthorised transactions. HSBC maintained Mr F had likely authorised the 
two outstanding payments.
Mr F wasnt happy with this response, and brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator looked into things and didnt think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld.
The investigator acknowledged what the relevant legislation said but still thought it was fair 
HSBC had carried out an investigation instead of refunding immediately. The investigator 
thought it was more likely than not Mr F had authorised the two outstanding transactions.
The investigator agreed HSBCs investigation had taken too long but felt the £100 already 
paid to Mr F was enough to compensate him for the distress he was caused.
Mr F didnt agree. Mr F said he was entitled to an immediate refund and £100 wasnt enough 
to compensate him for the time the investigation took. Mr F asked for an ombudsman to 
decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ombudsman service is an informal dispute resolution service. This means I have to be 
mindful of relevant legislation, but Im not bound by it. I decide things on a fair and 
reasonable basis.
And, as a general rule, its fair for HSBC to hold Mr F liable for a transaction where the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not he authorised it.
When Mr F first raised the unauthorised transactions with HSBC it declined to immediately 
refund but instead started an investigation into the payments. I think this was a reasonable 
decision to take in the circumstances.
One of the transactions was authorised with the card and personal identification number 
(PIN). If this payment was unauthorised HSBC would need to look into how someone might 
have got Mr Fs card and known his PIN.
This payment is the one Mr F later recognised as one hed made. Had HSBC immediately 
refunded Mr F he might have spent the refund. HSBC would then need to take back the 
refund once Mr F told it this was a payment he had made.
This could have caused additional inconvenience to Mr F. In the circumstances I think it was 
a fair decision by HSBC not to immediately refund Mr F for this payment.
The same goes for the payment subsequently refunded by the retailer. Had HSBC 
immediately refunded this payment it would again have had to take the refund back. And this 
payment was for a relatively large amount. This could have caused a lot more inconvenience 
for Mr F.
Im aware the relevant legislation says HSBC should make an immediate refund of 
unauthorised transactions. But I think HSBC made a fair and reasonable decision not to 
immediately refund in Mr Fs specific circumstances. I dont think HSBC did anything wrong 
with this part of Mr Fs complaint.
The other two transactions were made online, using Mr Fs correct card details.
HSBC has provided evidence to show one of the payments was made from the same IP 
address Mr F uses and on the same device as he often uses to check his online banking and 
make other, undisputed, transactions.
Looking at this evidence, I think its more likely than not Mr F authorised this payment.
The last payment was made to a retailer Mr F hadnt used before. But Mr F did make a 
further payment to the retailer, before he reported one as unauthorised, and he didnt dispute 
the second payment.
On balance, I think its more likely than not Mr F authorised this payment as well.
Mr F raised four transactions as unauthorised. One Mr F later recognised, and one was 
refunded by the retailer. The other two I think its fair HSBC hold Mr F liable for them, and it 
doesnt need to refund them.
So, it follows I dont think HSBC was wrong when it decided not to make an immediate 
refund to Mr F, and this is regardless of what the relevant legislation says.
But Mr F did wait a long time for a response on his fraud claim, and HSBC acknowledges the 
investigation took too long. HSBC has already paid Mr F £100 to compensate for this and, in 
the circumstances, I think this is a fair resolution to this part of Mr Fs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint as I think HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made a fair and reasonable payment to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman