DRN-1929117
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Well Dunn Limited deprived him of a years no claims bonus (NCB) 
entitlement for his motor insurance policy. He wants it to reinstate the years NCB or 
reimburse him for the difference in costs for his new policy.
What happened
Mr C renewed his policy through Well Dunn but it was found a month later that this was for 
private cover rather than taxi insurance. The policy was changed and eleven months later Mr 
C cancelled the policy and took out cover elsewhere. But he didnt receive a years NCB as 
the policy year hadnt ended. Mr C thought this was due to Well Dunns error and he wanted 
the years NCB reinstated.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Well Dunn 
had given Mr C the impression that if he cancelled his policy after eleven months then hed 
receive a years NCB. He thought Well Dunn should honour the NCB as if Mr C had 
completed the full policy term. 
Well Dunn said it had made it clear to Mr C that his taxi policy was new and would run for 12 
months. It thought Mr C had chosen to take out cover elsewhere and cancel his policy early. 
It thought that it had correctly told Mr C that if he cancelled he wouldnt receive an additional 
years NCB entitlement. Also, the underwriters declined to provide a years NCB. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C 
and to Well Dunn on 19 May 2020. I summarise my findings:
Mr C said the initial error at renewal was Well Dunns fault. It renewed his taxi policy with a 
private car policy. It realised this shortly afterwards and provided Mr C with a taxi policy. Well 
Dunn said this was a new policy that would clearly need to run for 12 months before Mr C 
earned his years NCB entitlement. I thought this was standard industry practice and I 
thought this was made clear in the policy documents.
 But Mr C said hed considered his insurance year as ending on the date the first policy 
would lapse. He said if hed known that the year had been extended, then he wouldnt have 
taken out new cover when he did. But I thought Well Dunn had made it clear that the new 
policy was for 12 months. And I didnt think it would be usually reasonable for it to provide a 
years NCB after it had run for only 11. But I thought there were significant factors in Mr Cs 
case that needed to be considered. 
Mr C had taken out cover elsewhere to coincide with the date of his taxi licence renewal. He 
said hed needed proof of his two years NCB from Well Dunn. Like the investigator, I listened to the call where this was discussed. Mr C clearly called Well 
Dunn to obtain his proof of NCB. He was told the policy was still running and that he would 
lose his whole years NCB if he cancelled early. Mr C explained the circumstances of the 
earlier cancellation and the new policy. He said all he wanted was the NCB. 
After being kept on hold for some time, the agent returned saying that hed looked into it for 
Mr C. I think Mr C thought he was looking into the NCB issue for him. The agent said he 
could cancel the policy with a zero balance or match the new quote. Mr C said he already 
had cover and wanted the NCB emailed to him. The agent said hed do that and hed cancel 
the policy now. The agent didnt again explain that this would mean that Mr C wouldnt get 
his years NCB.
Well Dunn said that it had explained to Mr C that he still had a month to go on his policy and 
if he cancelled early hed lose his years NCB. It said Mr C understood this and still went 
ahead with the cancellation. 
But I wasnt persuaded that Mr C did understand this. I thought if he had then he would have 
deferred his new cover and continued with the old policy to gain his years NCB. I couldnt 
see why if he had understood Well Dunns advice he would have still gone ahead and 
cancelled his policy. I thought Mr C was left with the understanding that the agent had 
looked into the matter and had accepted his arguments about the years cover and that he 
should receive his years NCB. So I thought Well Dunns unclear advice led to Mr C 
cancelling his policy early and losing his years NCB.
Subject to any further representations by Mr C or Well Dunn, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to uphold this complaint. But, as the underwriters wouldnt provide a years 
NCB, I intended that Well Dunn should compensate Mr C for the increase in premium he 
incurred, with interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Well Dunn raised no objections to my provisional decision. Mr C was pleased with the 
decision to uphold the complaint, but not with the proposed redress. He wanted Well Dunn to 
provide proof of the two years NCB he said hed earned whilst insured through it. He said his 
new insurer had provided cover based on this pending the outcome of his complaint. 
I can understand that Mr C wants a simple solution to his complaint. But Well Dunn is the 
policy broker, not the policy underwriter, and so it isnt able to award him a years NCB. As 
the underwriter declines to provide a years NCB, and as it hasnt made a mistake, I cant 
require it to do this. So, in order to put things right for Mr C, the alternative I proposed is that 
Well Dunn should provide Mr C with financial compensation for the increased costs hes 
incurred due to its error. Mr C said hes able to obtain the costs for the new policy with one 
years NCB from his new insurer. 
Putting things right
So to put things right for Mr C, I think Well Dunn should do the following:
Pay Mr C compensation for the increase in costs hes incurred with his new policy 
due to the loss of a years NCB, on receiving reasonable proof of this increase from 
Mr C. Mr C has been without his money for some time, so I think Well Dunn should add 
interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Well Dunn to withhold income tax from that 
interest. It must give Mr C a certificate showing how much its taken off if he asks for 
one.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Well Dunn Limited to pay Mr C 
compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman