DRN-3863091
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a claim he made on his QIC Europe Ltd legal expenses insurance 
policy.
Mr M says QIC unreasonably declined his claim and treated him unfairly.
All references to QIC include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr M made a claim on his QIC legal expenses insurance policy for cover to bring a claim 
against an airport meet and greet service for damage to his car. 
QIC initially said that the value of the claim appeared to fall below £10,000 so they would 
only fund expert and Court fees in accordance with the policy terms relating to small claims.
Mr M said that the value of his claim was the cost of replacing his car, which amounted to 
£10,000. Because of this QIC agreed to instruct their panel firm of Solicitors to consider the 
claim further.
The panel firm concluded the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success because 
they didnt have a copy of the contract between Mr M and the meet and greet service and 
that they needed to consider the repair cost of the car rather than the replacement value to 
determine quantum. Because of this they said Mr M needed to obtain three quotations to 
establish this. 
Mr M provided QIC with a copy of the contract he had with the meet and greet service and 
explained the problems he had in obtaining quotations for repair. Initially he didnt know the 
whereabouts of his car; it was still being held by the meet and greet service. But when he did 
locate it, he discovered the car wouldnt start so would need to be transported at 
considerable cost to him, to a garage to diagnose it. Further, he said that at least £4,000 
worth of repairs were needed before proper diagnostics could be carried out to establish 
what other repairs might be necessary. Overall, Mr M explained that it would cost him a 
disproportionate amount to establish whether the car could be repaired rather than replaced.
Because QIC werent prepared to help him, Mr M issued a claim against the meet and greet 
service at Court himself in the small claims track. The meet and greet service didnt respond 
to the claim so he obtained judgment in default against them. He then asked QIC if they 
would help him enforce that judgment and reimburse the Court fees hed spent pursuing the 
claim.
QIC refused. They said the policy only extends to covering expert and Court fees for small 
claims and it wasnt clear whether there would be prospects of recovery against the meet 
and greet service in any event. Mr M didnt agree so referred his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator considered his complaint and concluded it should be upheld. He said that 
because QIC hadnt disclosed a full copy of the panel firms legal opinion, they werent able 
to rely on it. And given he couldnt verify whether the person who gave that advice was 
suitably qualified the investigator felt that he couldnt say that QIC did what wed expect them 
to do. He went on to say that even if he had seen the advice, he still didnt think Mr M had 
been treated fairly. This was because Mr M had already submitted the contract between him 
and the meet and greet service to QIC when he initially made his claim- so this should have 
been passed on to the panel firm. And given Mr M had established he had a case to answer, 
QIC should have agreed to instruct an expert to establish the value of the repairs needed to 
his car and indeed whether those costs outweighed the value of the car itself. The 
investigator also concluded that QICs comments on the prospects of Mr M enforcing his 
judgment against the meet and greet service werent based on any sound evidence. To put 
things right, he directed QIC to:
pay Mr Ms Court costs incurred in pursuing the claim himself.
reconsider the claim for enforcing judgment against the meet and greet service with the 
benefit of suitable expert evidence in respect of both the merits and proportionality of 
doing this, and: 
pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
QIC doesnt agree. Theyve repeated back the submissions they made when they responded 
to this complaint. Given those submissions are well documented I dont intend to repeat 
them here. Because of this the matter has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr Ms complaint for the same reasons set out by the investigator.
The starting point is the policy terms. Mr Ms policy, like virtually all other before the event 
insurance policies requires there to be reasonable prospects of success. We dont think this 
is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt want to bear 
the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed. We wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to 
fund claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of 
the underlying claim. Instead, and as the investigator explained, we look at whether the 
insurer has acted fairly. So long as they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we 
wont generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong 
or based on factual mistakes. Its disappointing that QIC were not prepared to disclose the 
panel firms advice in its entirety that we werent able to establish whether the person that 
gave that advice was suitably qualified. Because of this, I agree that QIC arent entitled to 
rely on the advice of the panel firm in this case. 
But even if I thought they were entitled to rely on that advice, I dont think it was reasonable 
to do so in this case. I say so because the prospects of success were based on the lack of a 
key document. Mr M provided that document to QIC so it was simple enough for them to 
revert to the panel firm with this to allow them to consider the content. 
Im also not satisfied that QIC treated Mr M fairly on the issue of obtaining quotations. Mr 
M gave a credible account of why this wasnt appropriate initially- he didnt know the 
whereabouts of his car- and then when he had this information, why the likely costs in 
obtaining these quotations would be similar to or outweigh the cost of the car itself. I appreciate that QIC might have wanted expert evidence to establish this, but they should 
have obtained this at their own cost. I say so because Mr M did enough to establish, he 
had a valid claim. Whilst the policy terms do make it clear that claims require reasonable 
prospects of success, this doesnt mean that an insurer is entitled to decline every claim 
that requires expert evidence to support the merits of it or the prospects of recovery, 
unless this is funded by a policyholder.
Our longstanding approach has been that its for a policyholder to show that they have a 
valid claim. Mr M did that. He provided an initial quotation from the meet and greet 
services garage showing the initial work that would need to be completed before further 
damage could be established and he provided photographs of the damage itself. So, Im 
satisfied that hes established theres a claim QIC should have considered, even if further 
evidence was required to conclusively assess prospects of success. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that the level of damage to Mr Ms car is in dispute so QIC should 
have instructed an expert to assess the extent of the damage and likely repair costs at 
their own cost. That would have been part of the evidence gathering process that panel 
firms are instructed to prepare when a policyholder has demonstrated they have a claim. 
And its not something Mr M should have been responsible for obtaining or funding as QIC 
suggested. And I suspect that if QIC had done what it should have done and faced the 
obstacles Mr M did in obtaining quotations for repair, they would have simply accepted the 
value of the claim was likely to be the replacement cost of the car.
In this case Mr M didnt hear back from QIC when he responded to their request for 
quotations and the contract. Instead, he got on with litigating the claim himself and was 
successful in obtaining a judgment. I agree that to put things right, QIC should pay the Court 
fees Mr M incurred in pursuing this. 
I also think QIC need to do more to assess Mr Ms claim for enforcing the judgment he 
obtained against the meet and greet service. In doing so I dont think theyre entitled to reply 
on their policy terms- rather they should consider funding this on a fair and reasonable basis 
given their failure to do what they should have if this claim had unfolded as it should have. 
That said I think its only reasonable that the funding of this claim should be subject to there 
being both reasonable prospects of recovery and that enforcement action is proportionate to 
pursue. Theres nothing to QICs current position on proportionality that is founded on any 
proper evidence. So, theyll need to obtain the advice of suitably qualified experts. I suggest 
that a suitably qualified legal professional is instructed to obtain a report from a tracing 
agent or other similar service to provide information about the meet and greet services 
assets and income. The legal professional will then be able to provide advice in respect of 
the merits in enforcing the judgment as well as whether this will be proportionate to pursue 
with reference to its own legal costs or indeed any fixed legal costs that might apply to 
enforcement action. 
Finally, I agree that QIC should pay Mr M £500 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused him in the handling of this claim. Mr M was put to considerable 
inconvenience in both corresponding with QIC and pursuing his claim himself at Court, which 
would have been both stressful and time consuming. As I understand it, this would have 
exacerbated the already difficult circumstances Mr M found himself in- losing a car he 
depended on for work without any prospect of pursuing the matter through his legal 
expenses insurance policy when this should have been available to him. My award of 
compensation is intended to cover the additional stress QICs actions would have caused to 
Mr M in his circumstances.  Putting things right
QIC should:
Reimburse the Court fees Mr M incurred in pursuing the claim against the meet and 
greet service himself. QIC will be entitled to deduct the policy excess from any payments 
made in this regard.
Reconsider Mr Ms claim for enforcing the judgment he obtained against the meet and 
greet service. In doing so QIC will only be entitled to rely on the policy terms that require 
the claim to have reasonable prospects of success and be proportionate to pursue. To 
establish this, they should instruct suitable experts. These should be in the form of a 
suitably qualified legal professional to engage the services a tracing agent or other 
similar service.  
Pay Mr M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint against QIC Europe Ltd and direct 
them to put things right in the way Ive directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman