DRN-2785301
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is about the early repayment charge (ERC) they had to pay to 
Santander UK Plc when they repaid their mortgage with it. They consider:
the ERC was unfair as it exceeded the amount that would have been payable in interest 
over the remaining period of the interest rate product;
it wasnt made clear when they took out the mortgage that Santander might not allow the 
mortgage to be ported to a new property; and
Santander should have taken account of the 10% annual overpayment allowance when 
the ERC was calculated.
What happened
In 2015 Mr and Mrs P arranged a mortgage with Santander through a mortgage broker. 
Attached to the mortgage was a fixed interest rate product until November 2020. The 
mortgage offer they were sent before the mortgage started explained that there was a 5% 
ERC attached to the interest rate product for the entire period it was in place. It allowed 
overpayments of up to 10% each year without the payment of an ERC. It also stated:
What happens if you move house?
If you move house you may [my emphasis] be able to transfer this mortgage to another 
property subject to the conditions set out in the mortgage conditions booklet
The mortgage conditions explain that Santander will allow the transfer of the existing interest 
product to a new mortgage it has agreed to advance. It goes into further details, all of which 
are dependent on Santander having agreed to a new mortgage on a new property.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs P decided to sell their home and buy another. They applied for a 
mortgage to buy the new property with Santander, which it agreed in principle. The interest 
rate product was to be transferred to the new mortgage. However, when the new property 
was surveyed it came to light that it included self-contained annexes, one of which was 
being rented out. As such, the property fell outside of Santanders residential lending criteria 
because it was a mixed-purpose property; partially commercial and partially residential. The 
surveyor decided it wasnt suitable security for Santander to lend on. Santander told 
Mr and Mrs P that it wouldnt agree to lend on the new property.
Mr and Mrs P went ahead with the purchase in mid-2019, funding it by other means. This 
meant when they paid off the existing Santander mortgage, they had to pay the ERC. They 
complained to Santander as they thought they hadnt been treated fairly.
Santander responded to Mr and Mrs P and explained that theyd been told about the ERC 
before they took the mortgage and had signed to say they agreed to it. It also said the end 
date of the interest rate product was detailed in their mortgage statement each year. So it 
didnt consider it had made an error when charging the ERC. Mr and Mrs P werent satisfied 
with Santanders response and referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs P didnt accept the investigators conclusions and reiterated that they 
thought Santander acted unfairly toward them. They made comment about the importance of 
being able to port when they took out the mortgage and suggested the investigator look into 
Santanders porting criteria further. The investigator explained that we wouldnt investigate 
Santanders lending criteria in the way Mr and Mrs P wanted  rather we consider each 
complaint on its own merits and based on the evidence available in each one. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked for the complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. They say they believe the property was not deemed suitable 
for lending purposes because it had annexes, and this was Santanders lending criteria, 
rather than the opinion of the surveyor that the property wasnt reasonable security. They 
highlighted that the property was sold to them on the basis the lodger wouldnt be resident at 
the time of the sale.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 March 2021, which detailed my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
A lender will decide what types of property it is willing to provide mortgages for. Many 
lenders wont lend on a property or a building containing the property has a mix of uses  
partially commercial and partially residential. A lender is entitled to decide what types of risk 
it is willing to take when it lends, and thats not something this service would normally look to 
interfere with. 
When Mr and Mrs P applied for a mortgage Santander agreed in principle to lend them the 
money. It employed a suitably qualified expert to assess the property and decide whether it 
was suitable security for the amount Mr and Mrs P wanted to borrow. This assessment did, 
as Mr and Mrs P believed, take into account the types of property Santander was willing to 
lend on. This is normal when a valuation is done. The surveyor concluded the property was 
not suitable security for the residential mortgage Mr and Mrs P had applied for. 
Santander was entitled to rely on the expert opinion it had commissioned. So I cant find it 
was unreasonable for Santander to decline Mr and Mrs Ps application for a mortgage on the 
new property.
I note that Mr and Mrs P have said the ability to port the mortgage was a key consideration 
when they chose the mortgage with Santander. Firstly, I would comment that the advice they 
received when taking the mortgage was not provided by Santander, but rather an 
independent broker, so Santander is only responsible for the information it gave when the 
mortgage was applied for. That information said that porting might be possible, but it wasnt 
in any way guaranteed. 
Porting is always dependent on the property the borrowers want to move to being 
acceptable to the lender. Future lending and porting were not something that was 
guaranteed when Mr and Mrs P took their mortgage out in 2015, they were simply a 
possibility.
The ERC was clearly documented in the mortgage offer that was sent to Mr and Mrs P 
before the mortgage was advanced. They accepted that offer and the ERC that was 
associated with it, even if they thought, at the time, it was unlikely they would have to incur it.I note Mr and Mrs P have said the tenant of the annexe that was being rented out at the time 
of the survey would have left the property by the time the sale was to complete. However, 
the issue with the property was its nature  its mixed use  rather than the existence of a 
tenant at the time of the survey.
As I have said above, I dont consider Santander acted inappropriately in declining the 
mortgage application for the new property, as its expert told it the property was not suitable 
security. So when Mr and Mrs P paid off their mortgage, it was not unreasonable for 
Santander to charge the ERC that Mr and Mrs P had accepted as part of the mortgage they 
had entered into with Santander.
As for Mr and Mrs Ps concern that the amount of the ERC is unfair, I would explain that in 
order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with loans 
made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that money. 
When the lender decides the format of the loans its going to use a tranche of money for, it 
has to include an assessment of the potential risks associated with doing so. Included in 
those risks is that some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that happens 
some of the money expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender remains 
liable for its own cost of borrowing the money. In addition, if the lender repays its borrowing 
early, there may be costs associated with that too. 
In light of this, lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs to it of 
consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but 
is more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a similar 
type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the 
lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment and assessment of future conditions. 
The regulations allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way. It also fulfils the lenders 
requirement that a consumer is told in advance of taking the mortgage what the ERC will be 
and is given an example of it in monetary terms. 
Mr and Mrs P consider the ERC is unfair because it is for more than the amount of interest 
that would have been paid to Santander over the remaining term of the interest rate product. 
As I have explained above there are many factors that are taken into account when an ERC 
is calculated. Under the rules, provided the charge is a reasonable pre-estimate of the loss 
suffered by Santander if the mortgage is paid early, it can make the charge. I have seen the 
evidence of the calculations, though they cant be made publicly available as theyre 
commercially sensitive and confidential, I am satisfied the amount charged in this case was 
a reasonable pre-estimate of loss. I dont think the charge should be refunded.
As for Mr and Mrs Ps thought that the overpayment allowance should have been taken into 
account when the ERC was calculated, I cant agree. The mortgage conditions allow for up 
overpayments to be made without an ERC being paid. However, Mr and Mrs P didnt make 
overpayments and werent asking to do so. So I dont think Santander should have taken the 
overpayment allowance into account when calculating the ERC when the mortgage was 
completely repaid.
Santander confirmed that it had received my provisional decision, and that it had nothing 
further to add.
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept my provisional decision. They said when they took the original 
mortgage they werent made aware that porting would be restricted by Santanders lending 
criteria. None of the literature they were given said that porting would be restricted based on 
the nature of the property, rather they believed it would be based on things like affordability 
and the loan-to-value of the mortgage and property. Mr and Mrs P then went on to explain how they would expect this service to investigate their 
complaint. They were effectively saying that they wanted this service to look into Santanders 
lending criteria and determine whether it was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted Mr and Mrs Ps comments about the investigations they believe this service 
should complete. As I explained in my provisional decision, all lenders make their own 
decisions about what type of risks they are willing to take, and different lenders will accept 
different risks. That is something a lender is allowed to do and, as long as they apply the 
criteria consistently to its customers, it isnt something we would normally interfere with. 
I would also reiterate that its very common that high-street lenders like Santander will not 
offer a residential mortgage on property that is partially commercial. This has been the case 
for a significant time period, and I can assure Mr and Mrs P that Santander didnt introduce 
this aspect of its lending criteria at, or around, the time of their application. Indeed, its 
unlikely they would have been granted a residential mortgage on the property they bought 
from any high-street lender like Santander.
I would also say that I wouldnt expect a lender to provide a detailed breakdown of its lending 
criteria to its customers. Firstly, this information can be commercially sensitive, but also, it 
can change over time as the market changes and a lenders experience and attitude toward 
risk evolves. All mortgage applications are subject to criteria, as was Mr and Mrs Ps 
mortgage application in 2015. When it comes to the property type, Santander did set its 
criteria, but it was the surveyors opinion about the property and how it fitted, or didnt, with 
that criteria that the decision not to lend was made.
Whilst I understand why Mr and Mrs P remain unhappy that their mortgage application was 
declined, I remain satisfied that Santander didnt do anything wrong. It follows that it wasnt 
unreasonable for it to have charged the ERC Mr and Mrs P agreed to pay in the event they 
repaid the mortgage before the end of the interest rate product term.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision 
before 17 June 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman