DRN-2899892
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank Plc sent her money abroad in United States dollars 
(USD), instead of British pounds (GBP)  and that this meant she lost out on the exchange 
rate.
What happened
Mrs B visited a Lloyds branch a number of times between February and December 2020 to 
send money from her account to a relative in another country. She says it was only when 
she decided to send money to another relative abroad that she realised Lloyds had been 
sending her money in USD. 
In December 2020 she complained to Lloyds that her last eight money transfers shouldve 
been sent in GBP. She showed them the receipts shed been given when she requested 
these transfers, which confirmed the money had been sent in USD. Mrs B said shed lost out 
on the exchange rate due to Lloyds error and asked them to compensate her for this.
Lloyds didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. They said all eight receipts showed the payments 
made over the course of the year had been made in USD and that she hadnt notified them 
of any concerns about this. 
Our investigator thought it was most likely that Lloyds staff followed their set process for 
sending money internationally  and this meant they wouldve told Mrs B the payments 
would be sent in USD. He was satisfied that her receipts and bank statements showed the 
currency Lloyds had used to transfer the money. He felt that, if thered been a 
misunderstanding about the currency to be used, she wouldve been able to query this 
before sending any more money. 
Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view. She said Lloyds had misled her from the 
beginning, when she first asked them to set up an international transfer for her. Mrs B said 
shed expected her relative to receive the full value of the money sent, but felt shed been 
deceived into wasting money on currency exchanges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs B feeling frustrated that her relative hasnt received the full value of the 
money she sent. There are a number of ways of sending money abroad. Different 
businesses each have their own mechanisms for sending money internationally  for which 
different exchange rates and charges will apply.
It isnt possible for every bank to have a direct business relationship with all the other banks 
in the world. Where necessary, theyll use one or more intermediate bank(s) to bridge the 
gap between the customers bank and the recipients bank. The intermediate bank(s) wont 
necessarily be in the same country as the bank theyre acting for  they may be based in a 
country that seems to have no relevance to the transaction.
Where a payment needs to be converted to a foreign currency, this can either be done 
before the transfer is made or by the bank that receives it. If the conversion is done at the 
outset, wed expect the customer to be given clear information about what the rate will be 
and how much currency will be sent to the payee. Ive considered what happened here with 
this in mind.
Lloyds have provided a copy of their internal process for making international payments. 
This tells their staff that they must advise the customer of the amount to be transferred - both 
in the currency that will be used to debit the customers account and the currency to be used 
for the payment. Lloyds process makes it clear that the customer can choose whether they 
want to send the money in GBP, rather than it being converted into foreign currency. 
Mrs B feels very strongly that she would only have referred to the amount she wanted to 
send in GBP. Lloyds have told us that USD would be their default currency for sending 
money to that destination. And theyve told us that, on each occasion, Mrs B wouldve 
needed to confirm and verify the payment by entering her PIN.
 
There are no records of the conversations Mrs B had in the branch. Where I cant be certain 
what happened, I have to think about whats most likely. I consider it most likely that, when 
Mrs B made a request to send money abroad, Lloyds staff would follow their internal 
process. I find it unlikely that they wouldve failed to advise Mrs B of the amount to be sent in 
USD on eight separate occasions. 
Mrs B has told us she was given a receipt for each of these transactions  and that these 
confirm the money was sent in USD. Lloyds have provided copies of Mrs Bs account 
statements, which also show the foreign transfers made in February, March, May, July, 
November and December 2020 in USD. 
For these reasons, on balance, I think it more likely that Lloyds did make Mrs B aware that 
her money transfers would be sent in USD. So I dont find them to have made any error 
here. 
My final decision
Although I realise Mrs B will be disappointed with this decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman