DRN-2946525
The complaint
Mr K complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined to cover part
of a claim he made on his motor insurance policy and provided poor service to him. 
What happened
Mr Ks car hit a pothole, which damaged its front wheels. Within days, the steering wheel
began to shudder when he braked. He says a dealership garage (garage F) told him the
buckling of the wheels had caused the brakes to wear rapidly. Mr K had the brakes replaced
there straight away. Advantage later paid over £1,400 on the invoice submitted by garage F
for the repair of the wheels, but it didnt pay the £427.36 bill for the brakes. It didnt think the
wear to them was accident-related, but it said it would consider any evidence to the contrary.
Both Advantage and Mr K chased garage F for the required evidence, but it didnt provide it.
Mr K said he didnt see why he should have to prove that the damage to the brakes wasnt
caused by normal wear and tear, especially as he could show that they were in very good
condition around eight months before the car hit the pothole. He also complained about
service issues, including confusion amongst the advisors he spoke to about his claim.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ks complaint. He noted that an independent engineer
was instructed by Advantage, and that hed said it should pay £1,469.58 for the repairs. The
independent engineer wasnt asked to comment on the brakes, as theyd already been
replaced by garage F. The investigator didnt think the evidence relied on by Mr K to show
the brakes were in good condition eight months earlier was enough for Advantage to have to
reconsider its decision. In his view, without evidence from garage F, it was fair for Advantage
not to pay for the brakes. Mr K said he shouldnt be penalised for the actions of garage F
and remained adamant that the brakes were working normally prior to the incident.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
I understand why Mr K had the brakes replaced straight away, as it would have been 
dangerous to continue to drive with worn brakes. But that meant Advantage couldnt
examine them, nor could the independent engineer. In those circumstances, I think it was
reasonable for Advantage to tell the independent engineer that the brakes werent part of his
remit. I also think it was fair for it to inform Mr K that hed have to provide some evidence that
the damage to the brakes was accident-related.
Mr K provided a report to show the brakes were in good condition around eight months
earlier, and that the car had only been driven 5,000 miles since then. I think those facts may
make it less likely that there was enough wear and tear on the brakes between the date of
the report and the date of the accident to mean they had to be replaced. But I dont think its
possible to say for sure, as it depends partly on factors such as how the car was driven. And
Advantage thought an impact would have led to a shear or a crack, not to excess wear. If
that was likely (or even possible) evidence from garage F was essential.
It isnt clear why garage F didnt respond to Advantages requests for information, or why it
ignored Mr Ks requests. As garage F advised him to have the brakes replaced, it was in the
best position to say why that was necessary  and thereby assist in resolving the dispute.
In my opinion, it was reasonable for Advantage to advise Mr K that it would remain open to
the prospect of covering the cost of the brakes, subject to evidence from garage F. Mr K
doesnt think he should have to prove the basis for his claim, as in his view, its for
Advantage to show the damage wasnt accident-related. But in my opinion, its fair to expect
a consumer who is making a claim to show that its a valid claim, especially when the issue
is one such as excessive wear, which isnt normally impact-related.
Advantage hasnt suggested that it disbelieves what Mr K has told it, but if extra wear isnt a
likely outcome of damage from an impact, I think its requirement for supporting evidence
was reasonable enough. It isnt unusual for some consumers to seek payment for repairs
that arent accident-related, although theres nothing to show that applies in this case.
In my opinion, Advantage caused unnecessary confusion and frustration for Mr K during the
claims-handling process. It doesnt seem to have been made clear to him from the start that
Advantage would have to see evidence about the cause of the brake damage as well as the
invoice for the work. And Advantage told Mr K in its final response letter that the independent
engineer had inspected the car, when it seems that wasnt the case.
One advisor told Mr K that the independent engineer had the final say, and Mr K appears to
have been under the impression that the independent engineer said the brakes had suffered
normal wear and tear. That isnt correct, but its recorded in Advantages notes, so I can see
why an advisor would have passed it on to Mr K. Advantage also told Mr K in its final
response letter that the engineers (plural) had agreed that the damage to the brakes wasnt
accident-related, having reviewed a report that said it wasnt. But there isnt such a report on
the file, and the independent engineer didnt even consider that issue.
I can see why Mr K was unhappy that advisors didnt seem to be familiar with his claim or
were confused by it. He was also concerned about not being told by Advantage why it
thought the wear on the brakes was normal wear and tear. I think Advantage would have
taken that stance because wear on parts is usually classed as normal deterioration, in the
absence of any evidence to the contrary. There was no such evidence available in this case.
But I cant see a note to show that this point was made clear to Mr K.
I dont think it helped the situation that garage F promised to send its report to Advantage
more than once but didnt do so, as a report from it could have clarified the brakes issue
straight away. Unfortunately, I think it was even more unhelpful that any comments that may
have been made by Advantages engineer werent recorded on the file. I think that explains
why Advantages advisors struggled to explain the basis for its decision and caused Mr Ks
unhappiness with Advantage to escalate.
It can be frustrating for a consumer when different advisors deal with their calls, but often
thats unavoidable. And in making a claim, I think a consumer has to expect a certain level of
inconvenience. But I dont think being put on hold seven times in one 45-minute call is usual
or acceptable, nor is being given inaccurate advice. So I can see why Mr K was so unhappy
about the 45-minute call and other calls. Had the file notes (and the file in general) been
better, I think advisors would have been in a stronger position to discuss the claim properly
with Mr K. If so, much of the inconvenience and confusion he faced may have been avoided.
Whilst I think Advantages decision to decline part of Mr Ks claim was reasonable, in my
opinion the poor service issues on its part merit compensation. Ive concentrated on the
main service issues, although Mr K says there are others, such as having to chase for
replies to his emails. I cant see evidence of that in the file notes, but then it doesnt appearthat all the information is in the notes anyway. I think as a minimum, Advantage should have
given Mr K clear information throughout the claims process and that the explanation in the
final response letter should have been accurate.
I dont think the service issues impacted on the outcome of Mr Ks claim, but I think they
caused him distress and inconvenience. Mr K thinks £500 compensation would be
appropriate, but I think £150 would better reflect the level and effect of Advantages failings. 
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings, but neither of them did so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has commented on my provisional findings, I see no reason for departing 
from them. So - for the reasons set out above - Im upholding Mr Ks complaint in part.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr K £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman