DRN-4465212
The complaint
Miss B complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) setup and charged her for 
a policy she didnt ask for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, Ill summarise my findings.
Miss B took out a policy with D&G to cover her washing machine in 2019.
Later, she discovered a separate policy with D&G had also been setup at the same 
time for a dishwasher. But she says she didnt own a dishwasher, hadnt taken out 
the policy, and hadnt received policy documents about it.
D&G initially agreed to refund £134.64, which was two years of premiums. After the 
complaint was referred to this Service, D&G agreed to refund the remainder of the 
premiums, plus interest, which was a further £57.85. And cancel the dishwasher 
policy. The washing machine policy remains in place and thats not in dispute.
D&G has done this because it cant find a record of Miss B taking out the dishwasher 
policy, she hasnt made any claims on the policy, and she says she doesnt own a 
dishwasher. So I think it was reasonable for D&G for refund all the premiums paid, 
plus interest, and cancel the dishwasher policy.
I understand D&G has already carried out the steps it agreed to take to put things 
right. If so, it need not take any take any further steps.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Domestic & General Insurance Plc to:
Cancel the dishwasher policy.
Refund the premiums paid for it.
Pay interest on the refund at 8% simple per year, from the date each premium was 
paid to the date of settlement*.
*If D&G considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It should also give Miss B a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman