DRN-3237587
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt transfer four direct 
debits from one account to another in line with her instructions. 
Mrs Ls complaint has been brought on her behalf by a representative, who Ill refer to as   
Mr L. 
What happened
Mrs L attended a Nationwide branch and asked a staff member to arrange for four direct 
debits to be transferred from an account she held with bank T to an account she held with 
Nationwide. Mrs L says she made it clear to the staff member that she wouldnt be closing 
her account with bank T and showed her details of the four direct debits she wanted 
transferred. Mrs L says the staff member at Nationwide said this would be done. Mrs L says 
she gave clear instructions on what she wanted Nationwide to do but they sent her letters 
saying they would be transferring all her direct debits to her Nationwide account. Mrs L says 
she received letters from Nationwide with incorrect information about her instructions, so she 
complained. 
Nationwide responded and said when a partial switch is carried out, a customer cant choose 
to only move some of the payments, as the partial switch will organise all payments to be 
moved to the existing account. Nationwide say, since the partial and full switch services 
were introduced this has been the case and it has never been an option to move only some 
of the payments. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs L. She thought Nationwide hadnt made an error 
in carrying out a partial switch. Mrs L disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs L will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.   
Theres no dispute here that Mrs L attended a Nationwide branch and asked them to transfer 
four direct debits from bank T to her Nationwide account. This has led to Nationwide 
transferring all direct debits, which Mrs L says isnt what she wanted. 
Nationwide say the steps they took were in line with the instructions they understood from 
Mrs L. Contact notes provided by Nationwide dont show any detail on what was discussed  
so theres no contemporaneous account of the information Nationwide gave on the day. So, 
Ive considered testimony from Mrs L and Nationwide and then made a judgement on what I 
think is more likely to have happened than not. 
Mrs L says she attended the branch with Mr L and showed the staff member at Nationwide 
her bank T statement to highlight the four direct debits she wanted transferring. She says 
she made it clear she wasnt closing her account with bank T and wasnt transferring all of 
the bank T account to the Nationwide account. Mrs L says the staff member confirmed they 
could, and would, transfer the four direct debits. Mrs L says the staff member gave her a 
document setting out what she had done. Ive seen this document and its a screenshot from 
Nationwides system which is headed Your account switch summary and describes the 
switch type as Partial. 
Nationwide have provided a statement from the staff member where she recalls Mrs L and 
Mr L attended and wanted to move over Mrs Ls direct debits. She recalls Mr L had a list of 
direct debits either printed or written on paper. She says Mrs L didnt ask to switch over only 
a few direct debits otherwise she wouldnt have suggested doing a partial switch. She says 
Mr L explained he didnt want the bank T account closed and this is why she discussed the 
partial switch. 
Taking into account the testimony from both parties, I think its more likely than not that the 
staff member thought the four direct debits she was shown were the only direct debits being 
taken from bank T  and Mrs L now wanted these to be transferred to her Nationwide 
account. I think its important to clarify the partial switch differs to the full switch in that the 
latter leads to the old account closing whereas with the former the old account stays open. 
Both switch systems though transfer across any, and all, direct debit payments. So, given 
that I believe the staff member understood there were only four direct debits going out from 
Mrs Ls bank T account and that she wasnt closing this account, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Nationwide to have started the partial switch process. I can see why the 
term partial mightve caused confusion but, in this context, it refers to a switch where a 
customer is able to keep their old account open but transfers all direct debits, rather than 
only a few, but not all, direct debits being transferred.    
Given that Mrs L only wanted some, but not all, direct debits to be transferred to her 
Nationwide account, there was the option for Mrs L to contact the four companies direct and 
provide them with the bank details for her Nationwide account. This wouldve ensured only 
those four direct debits moved over and not the remainder. But, from the information Ive 
seen, and what I believe happened, I understand why this option wasnt discussed with    
Mrs L and why Nationwide thought a partial switch was the most appropriate solution to   
Mrs Ls request to transfer her direct debits. Im further persuaded that it wasnt 
unreasonable for Nationwide to take this approach as Mr L confirms he explained to the staff 
member that, apart from these four, all other direct debits had been cancelled with bank T 
during a meeting earlier that day. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for the staff member 
to have understood that the four direct debits were the only ones held with bank T.     
I can see Nationwide sent Mrs L a letter on 13 November 2019 headed Were switching 
your current account and thanks Mrs L for switching her current account to Nationwide. 
They explain theyll start the account switch on 12 November, contact bank T for a list of  
Mrs Ls regular payments and they enclose a guide to give Mrs L more information about the 
switch service. 
Nationwide then sent a letter on 28 November headed Weve switched your current 
account to confirm they have now completed the current account switch. They say theyve 
set up any standing orders and bill payments and notified Mrs Ls direct debit companies of 
the change to her current account details. Nationwide enclosed a list of all  Mrs Ls payment 
arrangements theyd received from bank T. This listed 19 payment arrangements. Ive listened to a phone recording between Mrs L and Nationwide on 2 December where she 
queries the list of payment arrangements. Mrs L says she cancelled a number of these 
payment arrangements with bank T so she was unsure why they had been transferred. The 
call handler explained these payment arrangements show details of payee details saved on 
bank Ts systems but it doesnt mean they are active payments. I understand why Mrs L 
became concerned when she saw the list of payment arrangements but, given that this was 
a partial switch, Nationwide wouldve received a list of all payment arrangement details held 
on bank Ts system. And, during the call the call handler reassures Mrs L that payments 
wont be made to all payees listed on the payment arrangement list. Mrs L also raised a 
concern that one of the four direct debit companies hadnt been paid and the call handler 
explained that company would need to make a request for payment and Nationwide would 
then pay this  but their system didnt show any request had been made.   
Mrs L then writes to Nationwide on 7 December to say her verbal instructions during the 
attendance at branch were for four direct debits to be transferred which she lists and asks 
Nationwide to arrange. Nationwide then sent Mrs L a letter on 11 December headed Your 
new current account is ready to go and says Mrs Ls account switch is now complete and 
she can start using her new account. They confirm theyve set up any standing orders and 
bill payments from Mrs Ls old account. 
I understand why the letters from Nationwide worried Mrs L because they refer to a new 
account being opened, whereas she had asked for the four direct debits to be transferred to 
her existing Nationwide account. Nationwide confirm no new account was opened and the 
letters sent to Mrs L are for a switch, regardless of whether its for a partial or full switch. 
From the information Ive seen though, its clear Nationwide didnt open a new account and 
the direct debits were transferred into Mrs Ls existing Nationwide account. 
I note Mrs L feels the letters were incorrect and misleading but, while they do say theyre 
switching Mrs Ls current account, they do set out the actions Nationwide have taken. And, 
this includes setting up any direct debits from her existing account, notifying any direct debit 
companies of the change to her account details and also confirming that her old account 
remains open. And, I can see this is part of the partial switch process. So, while there are 
some generic terms used in the 28 November and 11 December letters which perhaps dont 
differentiate between a partial and full switch, I think theres sufficient information in the 
letters which show this is a partial switch.    
I understand Mrs L is concerned Nationwide didnt provide her with a specific response to 
her letter of 7 December. But, the information shows the four direct debits mentioned by   
Mrs L in her letter are included in the payment arrangements list and, prior to this, during the 
telephone call the call handler reassured Mrs L that all payees appearing on the list werent 
going to be paid. Mrs L says, apart from the four direct debits she wanted transferring to 
Nationwide, all others had been cancelled by her with bank T. So, I do acknowledge why 
Mrs L was worried, and its clear from her telephone call shes concerned about the list. But, 
I think the call handler explained why there were 19 payees appearing on the list and the 
reason for this. And, the list does include the four direct debits Mrs L wanted transferring, so 
I think everything covered in Mrs Ls letter of 7 December was already explained. 
I can see Mrs L raises a number of concerns about Nationwides complaints handling. 
Complaint handling isnt a regulated or other covered activity. So as a general rule, and in 
line with the law, if the complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to 
look into things. Where complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, then we 
can take into account complaint handling when looking at the overall customer experience. 
In this case, I cant say the issues which Mrs L raises about the complaints handling are an extension of the issues which relate to regulated activities, so I cant look into the complaint 
handling part of the complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman