DRN-2657401
The complaint
Mr O and Mrs W have complained about their home insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc because 
it has sought to settle their claim for stolen high risk contents items, individually worth less 
than £1,500, to a limit of £5,000.
What happened
Mr O and Mrs W arranged a policy with AXA in July 2013. Theyd noted then (and in later 
years) that the website said: 
High risk items worth less than £1,500 are covered as standard on [our] contents insurance 
policies against theft and basic accidental damage inside the home. All you need to do is 
ensure that you have taken their value into account when you tell us the total value of your 
contents.
Mr O and Mrs W said they made sure their total limit for contents items reflected the value of 
their belongings, including any high risk items worth less than £1,500. The policy schedule 
sent when the policy was arranged reflected the cover agreed. In 2017 AXA reviewed its 
cover and the format of Mr O and Mrs Ws July 2017 policy schedule, along with some of its 
content, changed. The revised policy schedule included the following bullet point in respect 
of what contents items are covered:
High Risk Items worth less than £1,500 individually, up to £5,000 in total per claim.
In January 2018 Mr O and Mrs W were away on holiday when they were informed their 
home had been broken into. When they returned, they found their safe, concealed in a 
hidden compartment in their wardrobe, and all its contents had been stolen. They made a 
claim to AXA and a loss adjuster was appointed. Mr O and Mrs W werent happy about this 
but the adjuster did tell them the claim was accepted. From what they were told they 
believed all was well for a number of weeks. But the adjuster then told them that as far as 
their stolen high risk items were concerned, the claim settlement would be limited. The 
adjuster referred to the limit of £5,000 per claim for high risk items worth less than £1,500. 
Mr O and Mrs W were astonished  they hadnt been aware of the limit and had always 
acted to make sure all of their belongings were properly covered.  They made a complaint.
AXA accepted it could have handled the claim better at times, and offered £100 
compensation. But wasnt minded to agree it had acted unfairly in appointing a loss adjuster. 
It also didnt believe it had settled the claim unfairly; confirming that the policy limit in 
question was mentioned in the on-line policy journey, in the policy booklet and in the 2017 
policy schedule.
Our investigator felt that AXAs website had contained misleading information and that this 
had ultimately left Mr O and Mrs W with inadequate cover when they suffered a loss. Whilst 
she considered AXAs objections to these findings, including reference to the policy limit 
being quoted by it in a December 2019 phone call, she wasnt persuaded to change her view 
that their complaint should be upheld. She said AXA should settle their claim based on the 
total replacement cost to them of their high risk items individually worth less than £1,500, 
less the £5,000 already paid and less the policy excess. She also said it should pay a total of 
£300 compensation.
Mr O and Mrs W accepted the findings. AXA asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
policy limit
Having seen the available information in this case I do think Mr O and Mrs W were misled by 
the detail about the policy on the website. I appreciate that AXA says the limit was detailed in 
the customer application journey and that it was detailed in the policy booklet and in a later 
policy schedule. If there had been no misleading information then that detail set out in that 
way might have been sufficient. However, that is not the context in which Mr O and Mrs W 
viewed the policy, from application to the point of the claim.
Ive considered AXAs objection that we shouldnt rely on what happened when the policy 
was arranged as the policy has renewed in subsequent years. But Im mindful that if this had 
been a case of Mr O and Mrs W providing misleading information at the outset, Im not 
persuaded AXA would be saying its unfair to rely on what was said. 
Further, Ive seen what Mr O and Mrs W have said about how they viewed the cover and 
how theyve sought to manage it over subsequent years to ensure they are properly 
covered. I find their testimony compelling. I dont think I should assume that because they 
were pro-active in making amendments to cover this means they were likely aware of this 
inner limit of the policy. I dont think that logic rings true. I cant see why they would seek to 
make the changes they did whilst knowingly leaving themselves insufficiently covered for 
their high risk belongings. 
This service doesnt expect an insurer to highlight every term or policy limit to a policyholder. 
But it does expect an insurer to be clear about what cover is available or in place. Clarity 
always depends on context  and the context here, which AXA has not sought to deny, is 
that its website purports to offer cover as standard for all high risk items worth less than 
£1,500. Im satisfied that in the light of that setting, the detail AXA subsequently provided 
about the limit for high risk items worth less than £1,500 was not sufficient. Im also satisfied 
that if AXA had drawn this key term to Mr O and Mr Ws attention, theyd have made sure 
they were fully covered prior to suffering this loss in January 2019. So Im satisfied then that 
AXA fairly and reasonably needs to make up for this.
distress and inconvenience
AXA was entitled to use a loss adjuster. I appreciate that Mr O and Mrs W feel AXA was not 
clear with them about this but it is up to the insurer how it handles claims. 
The loss adjuster mostly made calls using mobiles. So the content of conversations which 
took place arent entirely clear. That said there is an email which suggests the adjuster had, 
to that point, led Mr O and Mr W to think their claim would be accepted in full. Im not sure 
why the adjuster hadnt become aware of the policy limit by that point, and I fully understand 
why Mr O and Mrs W were then so upset when that limit, along with what that would mean 
for their claim, was drawn to their attention.As Ive said above, I find Mr O and Mrs Ws testimony compelling. I think they always tried to 
make sure they were covered and complied with the policy requirements. I can understand 
that their settlement being limited was extremely upsetting for them. I can see this has meant 
theyve not been able to move on from the point of the burglary and that their upset over that 
unfortunate circumstance has been compounded. I also note that AXA did accept that the 
claim had been delayed at times, with there also having been some poor communication. 
Whilst AXA has offered £100 compensation, Im not persuaded that is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Putting things right
I require AXA to:
Settle Mr O and Mrs Ws claim for high risk items worth less than £1,500 by paying what 
it will cost them to replace the items, without relying on the policy limit of £5,000 that 
would normally apply, but with the previous payment of £5,000 and the relevant policy 
excess being deducted. 
Pay fair and reasonable compensation to Mr O and Mrs W, totalling £300, if £100 has 
already been paid then only the balance outstanding will need to be paid.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to comply with the directions set out 
above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman