DRN-3293459
The complaint
Mrs T says a car she purchased using a credit card provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
(Barclays), trading as Barclaycard, was misrepresented to her.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs T, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or full, with a credit card, it 
might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like 
right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Mrs T escalated a claim to this service in 2019. That complaint was about her assertion that 
there had been a breach of contract by the supplier of her car because Mrs T claimed it had 
been of unsatisfactory quality.
This complaint is about the same car but is about Mrs Ts claim that the car was 
misrepresented to her. Ill not reconsider the issues Mrs T raised in her first complaint, but I 
will consider the new issues regarding misrepresentation.
I need to consider two issues when deciding whether the car was misrepresented. 
Was Mrs T given a false statement of fact when she bought the car? And,
Did that false statement of fact induce her into buying it when she wouldnt have 
otherwise done so?
I think there is evidence in the advert of several false statements being made. There appears 
to have been no panoramic roof; more keepers; slightly more mileage and no steel spare 
wheel.
Mrs T has also provided a photograph of damaged seating and she says the car was 
advertised with the interior trim as being in excellent condition. She says that clearly wasnt 
the case.
But, Im not persuaded that Mrs T wouldnt have proceeded with the sale if these false 
statements werent made. I say that because I think the misrepresentation would have been 
obvious on inspection and even if that wasnt the case it would have been clear after a short 
period. Mrs T didnt raise these concerns for a long time, and I think if they had been issues 
that would have prevented her from proceeding she would have done so earlier. Im not 
therefore persuaded that those issues meant the car was misrepresented to her.
Mrs T suggests the car didnt have the full-service history it was advertised as having. Shes 
pointed out that the service book wasnt fully stamped. Its common nowadays for cars to 
have service records held online and I dont think I have enough evidence to suggest the car 
didnt have a full-service record or that a service wasnt completed in May 2018 as was 
claimed. Im not persuaded, on the evidence provided, that the car was therefore 
misrepresented for those reasons.
Mrs T noted that the advert suggested the car came with a 12-month warranty. Shes 
claimed there wasnt a warranty, but I dont think I have evidence that was the case. Ive 
seen a copy of the warranty document and a copy of a warranty application form on which 
its stated that the warranty start date is 3 June 2018; the same date Mrs T bought the car. 
Ive also reviewed the emails Mrs T exchanged with the warranty administrators., They 
appear to acknowledge the claim and I havent seen evidence they say the warranty wasnt 
paid for or was inactive.
So, I dont think Mrs T was provided with a false statement about the warranty. It seems one 
was provided so I dont think Barclays were unreasonable when they said the deal hadnt 
been misrepresented on that basis.
It may be that Mrs T is upset about the way the warranty was executed. Shes explained she 
thought it unfair the warranty company wanted her to take the car to their choice of repairer 
and shes pointed out the warranty documentation allows her to visit any VAT registered 
garage. I think thats an issue she may need to take up with the warranty provider as 
Barclays are only responsible for any misrepresentation made by the supplier and they did 
what they said they would  they provided a 12-month warranty.
Overall, whilst I have the greatest of sympathy for the difficult situation Mrs T has found 
herself in Im afraid I dont think Barclays have been unreasonable here and Im not asking 
them to take any further action.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman