DRN-3927528
The complaint
Mr J complains about the decision by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
to turn down his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr J is covered under his employers group income protection policy, the aim of which is to 
pay benefit if he cant work due to illness or injury. The policy has a 26-week deferred period.
In October 2021, Mr J stopped work due to abdominal pain. He was diagnosed with a hiatus 
hernia and prescribed medication. He was also later diagnosed with gallstones. Mr J made a 
claim and also said he was experiencing work-related stress.
L&G turned down the claim as it didnt think Mr Js medical conditions prevented him from 
working. It thought his symptoms were caused by work-related stress. Unhappy with this, 
Mr J brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought L&Gs claims 
decision had been reasonable, based upon the available medical evidence. 
Mr J didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy pays benefit in the event the definition of incapacity is met. This is defined in the 
policy as:
the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him from performing 
the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of the deferred period.
Essential duties means the duties that are normally required for the performance of the 
insured members insured occupation and which cannot reasonably be omitted or amended.
Ive considered the available medical evidence to see if Mr J has shown that he met the 
above throughout the deferred period (October 2021 to April 2022). 
As L&G has explained, when an insurer assesses an income protection claim, it will look at 
how the symptoms impact a persons functional capacity, and their ability to do their role. 
I see that Mr J was signed off by his GP as unfit for work. Though when his GP was asked 
how Mr Js symptoms stop him from working, they said they were unable to comment. 
Although Mr J had hospital investigations, theres no specialist evidence available to support 
that Mr Js symptoms prevented him from working throughout the deferred period. 
Its clear that Mr J was diagnosed with medical conditions  he was found to have a hiatus 
hernia as well as multiple small gallstones. However, L&Gs Chief Medical Officer (CMO) 
does not think these would cause his symptoms (particularly as these have become more 
significant), and instead thinks his symptoms are caused by his work-related stress. 
Mr Js counselling psychologist, who he saw during the deferred period, confirmed that he 
had work-related stress. She thought his chronic stress was contributing to and exacerbating 
his physical gastrointestinal symptoms, which supports L&Gs opinion on this. 
An occupational health adviser thought Mr Js employer should explore and address any 
work-related concerns with him. And said that if these were resolved, they thought it was 
likely that he would be able to return to work. 
When Mr J spoke with L&Gs nurse in February 2022, much of the conversation appears to 
have focused on Mr Js employment issues. He confirmed the medication he was taking, and 
had been prescribed the usual medication for a hiatus hernia, as well as a low dose of 
painkiller. She did not think the conditions would usually prevent Mr J working. L&Gs CMO 
agreed with this, and thought Mr Js absence from work was not due to functional restrictions 
from a medical perspective.
As I understand it, Mr J had some issues with a previous manager and raised a grievance 
against them. It therefore seems that his work-related stress has been caused by a 
perception that his former manager was treating him unfairly. This would be considered an 
employment dispute, rather than a medical condition preventing him from working in his 
occupation (even if the stress does cause or contribute to his physical symptoms). 
I note that after the deferred period had ended, Mr Js symptoms appear to have worsened. I 
say that because theres a reference to him having severe reflux symptoms, as well as pain 
around the abdomen which radiated to his back and down his left leg (which can last several 
hours). Mr J has also confirmed that the attacks and pain have increased over time in 
intensity and duration. 
I understand Mr J is still undergoing investigations into his symptoms. Though even if he 
receives a gastrointestinal diagnosis to explain his worsening symptoms (rather than them 
being caused by work-related stress, as L&G believes), its still the case that the medical 
evidence from the deferred period doesnt support that Mr Js symptoms were of such 
severity that they prevented him from working at that time. 
I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr J, but Im satisfied it was appropriate for L&G to 
turn down the claim as Mr J did not meet the policy definition of incapacity.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman