DRN-3875289
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint, made through his representative, concerns his Contracts for Difference
(CFD) trading account held with a business that Ill refer to as B. The complaint is against
Accendo Markets Limited (Accendo) who introduced Mr L to B.
In brief, Mr L feels the account wasnt appropriate for him and Accendo failed to consider
whether he had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in
CFD trading. In addition, he says Accendo provided him with advice that led to him to incur a
financial loss.
What happened
Mr L was introduced to B by Accendo and opened his CFD account in October 2013 and
traded regularly until February 2018. He began losing money on the account in
February 2014.
Mr L complained to Accendo, through his representative, on 9 February 2022. Accendo
issued a final response on 2 March 2022 and apologised that Mr L felt he had cause to
complain. But it didnt investigate his complaint as it said it was referred too late. Mr L then
referred his complaint to our service through his representative.
Our investigator explained that the time limits set out in our rules meant we were only able to
consider the part of Mr Ls complaint concerning the provision of advice and only in respect
of trades that occurred after February 2016.
In respect of these specific trades, the investigator wasnt persuaded that the information
provided to Mr L by Accendo met the definition of advice, as explained in PERG 8.28 of the
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. This being so, he concluded that the complaint
shouldnt be upheld.
Mr L didnt accept the investigators view. But he hasnt disputed that part of his complaint
was brought too late. So, the matter has been referred to me to review, but only in respect of
the merits of a limited part of his initial complaint  regarding the provision of advice in
respect of trades that occurred after February 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the
same reasons.
I appreciate that Mr L suffered losses whilst trading on Bs platform and this caused him
distress, for which he has my sympathy. I also recognise that he has strong feelings about
his complaint and feels Accendo is responsible for the losses incurred.
Turning to the evidence, I note weve been provided with a copy of an email Accendo sent to
Mr L in January 2016. Looking at Mr Ls trading history, I can see he traded in the
companies mentioned in the email throughout 2016. So, because many of these trades
occurred within the relevant time limits, Im able to consider the merits of a complaint
concerning them.
I acknowledge Mr L has said there were further instances where he received advice, but in
respect of evidence weve only been provided with the email mentioned above. Where the
information I have is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, I base my decision on the balance
of probabilities  what is more likely than not to have happened. And on balance, I think its
more likely than not that Mr L did receive further emails from Accendo containing similar
information to that provided to him in January 2016.
But while I recognise Mr L feels he was provided with advice in these emails, Im unable to
conclude that the information Accendo provided to him meets the FCAs definition of advice.
The FCA gives guidance on what does and doesnt amount to advice in PERG 8 of the FCA
Handbook. PERG 8.28.1 (as it read in January 2016) says that advice requires an element
of opinion on the part of the adviser. And that, in effect, its a recommendation as to a course
of action. Information, on the other hand, involves statements of fact or figures. PERG 8.28.2
further explains that simply giving information without making any comment or value
judgment on its relevance to decisions that an investor may make is not advice.
The email Accendo sent to Mr L in January 2016 included news articles published by
Bloomberg analysts. The news articles included factual information relating to upcoming
earnings announcements as well as the Bloomberg analysts opinions and forecasts of
McDonalds (MCD), Apple (AAPL), Meta (FB), and Amazon (AMZN). These articles were
sent to Mr L as hed previously traded these companies and mentioned them during an
earlier conversation with the Accendo broker.
I accept that the contents of Accendos email may seem to include an element of opinion.
However, these are not the opinions of Accendo. Rather, these are the opinions of the
Bloomberg analysts as expressed in their published articles. The Accendo broker didnt
provide his own comments or value judgements on the information provided, so I dont think
this can be considered as advice given by Accendo.
And as the investigator has noted  it was stated in the footer of the email that its contents
were for information purposes only and werent recommendations to buy or sell.
I note Mr L has said these emails were accompanied by telephone calls from the broker,
enquiring if he wished to trade based on the information provided. However, we havent
been provided with copies of the recordings of these telephone calls. And in their absence,
Im unable to assess whether advice was provided during these telephone calls.
While wed like to have received the call recordings to assess the information provided,
unfortunately Accendo hasnt been able to provide us with these. And given the passage of 
time thats passed since these calls took place, I think its understandable the recordings are 
no longer available.
That said, I dont think, on balance, its likely the Accendo brokers enquiries about
whether Mr L wished to trade based on the information provided could reasonably be
considered as advice. And while I appreciate the enquiries may have encouraged Mr L to
trade on the basis of the information, I think the decisions to trade were ultimately taken by
Mr L.
In summary, I recognise that Mr Ls trading with Accendo led him to lose money, and that hewill be disappointed that Ive reached the same conclusion as that reached by the
investigator. But, looking at the evidence provided, Ive not found that the information
provided to Mr L by Accendo met the FCAs definition of advice. So, there are no grounds on
which I can hold Accendo responsible for the losses he incurred from trading on the basis of
information provided to him.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman