DRN-3585214
The complaint
Ms P has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) overdraft lending and fees applied 
has caused her financial difficulty making it difficult to repay her debt.  
What happened
Ms P complained to Lloyds about the affordability of her overdraft. She says the charges 
applied made it difficult to repay her debt and caused her financial difficulty. Lloyds didnt 
uphold the complaint. And as Ms P was dis-satisfied she referred the complaint to our 
service.
Ms Ps complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Lloyds ought 
to have realised that Ms P was experiencing financial difficulty by September 2016 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Lloyds disagreed  it says the overdraft was affordable due to the high incomings into her 
account and she wouldve been able to repay her overdraft if it wasnt for spending on non-
essential items. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Lloyds acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees a year following 
the dates its been agreed we can look at (from August 2015) from September 2016. By this 
point, it ought to have been clear that Ms P was in no position to sustainably repay what she 
owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Ms P was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt seen or maintained a 
credit balance for an extended period of time. Lloydss own literature suggests that 
overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. 
So I think that Ms Ps overdraft usage should have prompted Lloyds to have realised that Ms 
P wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. 
Lloyds says Ms Ps overdraft was affordable based on the amounts deposited into the 
account over a number of years and that if Ms P had managed the account correctly she 
wouldve been able to maintain a credit balance. But from what Ive seen from the 
statements the majority of the deposits into the account were transfers from another 
account. And these transfers were generally being applied to service the loans and credit 
cards Ms P had. 
I accept that on the odd occasion there may have been spending on non-essential items but 
I wouldnt say this was the norm or the reason Ms P was consistently near the top end of her 
overdraft for a number of years. I also note there were often charges for returned direct 
debits. So as Lloyds didnt react to Ms Ps overdraft usage and instead continued charging in 
the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably.
Ms P ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Lloyds didnt 
treat Ms P fairly and she lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Ps complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Ps current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from September 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Ms P to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Ms Ps credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft from September 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms P along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Ms Ps credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Ms P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ps complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman