DRN-4041272
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) irresponsibly granted him a 
credit card he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2017 Mr S entered into an agreement with Tesco to have access to credit by way of 
a credit card account. He was given an opening credit limit of £2,400. 
Mr S got into difficulty with meeting his monthly repayments. He made his last monthly 
payment on the card in December 2018. The account was passed to a third party in in 
August 2019. 
Mr S says that Tesco didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened his credit 
card account. He says he was unable to meet the monthly payments and was already 
struggling financially at the time.
Tesco didnt agree, saying that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to 
check Mr Ss financial circumstances before granting him the credit. But as a gesture of 
goodwill it refunded all interest and charges and used the refund  totalling £337.60 - to 
reduce the outstanding balance on the account held with the third party. Mr S doesnt accept 
this. Instead, he wants Tesco to repurchase the debt and remove all adverse information 
from his credit file. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld from opening. She also thought that 
once the balance was cleared, Tesco should remove all adverse information relating to the 
account from Mr Ss credit file. 
As Tesco didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the account, Tesco looked into Mr Ss financial situation. This included 
looking at the information about his income and using credit bureau data to find out more 
about his financial circumstances. Tesco saw that whilst Mr S had no recent defaults with 
existing credit, or other adverse markings on his credit record, hed had two county court 
judgments recorded against him almost four years earlier. 
Ive seen from the statistical data it used when assessing Mr Ss application, that Tesco 
recorded Mr S as being a homeowner with a mortgage and earning a gross annual income 
as £60,000 from his self-employed occupation. Ive seen that it also relied on information 
from Mr S that his net monthly income was £1,000. Its not clear to me what if any steps 
were taken by Tesco to verify Mr Ss income, which seems to be inconsistent with the figure 
he gave for annual gross income. 
Tesco also used credit bureau information to calculate that Mr S owed around £3,500 in 
unsecured credit and around £87,000 by way of his mortgage. Tesco then arrived at a 
disposable income figure of £278 by estimating Mr Ss mortgage payment as being £300, his 
existing credit payments at £87 and his remaining living expenses as £300, also allowing 
£36 per month for the new credit. It then set the opening credit limit of £2,400 based on 
these factors. 
Whilst I think Tesco gathered reasonable evidence about Mr Ss income and credit history  
although as Ive said, I think it should have taken steps to verify his income - it doesnt 
automatically mean it made a lending decision that was fair overall. So, Ive thought about 
what the evidence and information showed. 
Ive noticed that the figures used by Tesco for assessing Mr Ss mortgage costs, being £300, 
was lower than the figure of £450 Mr S had given and the credit bureau figure of £409. 
Similarly, Tesco allowed £87 for what is described as loan repayments and didnt use the 
figure of £104 provided by the credit bureau for revolving credit. Given that Mr S had nine 
active credit accounts at the time, its not clear how the figure allowed for loan repayments, 
but none for credit, properly fits in with his overall financial situation. Ive seen that the figure 
of £36 per month for repaying the credit on the new card was based on assumed repayment 
level of 1.5% of the full credit limit. Mr S reached this level with his monthly statement in 
September 2017. He then went on to exceed it as he got into further financial difficulty. 
I agree with our adjudicator that a more sustainable monthly repayment of say 5% of the 
outstanding balance, would have meant him making a monthly repayment of £120. Based on 
the figures produced by the credit check Tesco carried out, I also agree its likely that Mr S 
would only just be able to meet his existing credit commitments and daily living expenses 
and so would be left with no or very little disposable income after that. 
Im therefore unable to agree with Tescos figure of £278 as being the sum that would 
without question be available to Mr S by way of disposable income each month. Rather, I 
think its very likely that Mr S wouldnt have had enough disposable income if he were to be 
sustainably managing his new credit card alongside his existing significant level of financial 
commitments. 
Having taken these issues into consideration, I think there was a very real risk that Mr S was 
likely to have been experiencing additional pressure on his monthly costs that could easily 
have led to a deterioration in his financial circumstances  and in fact did. I therefore agree 
with our adjudicator that Tescos assumptions about Mr Ss income and expenditure raise an 
important concern about the affordability of the account. 
To summarise, I think it would have been proportionate for Tesco to have gained a more 
thorough and accurate understanding of Mr Ss financial circumstances before giving him the credit. So I agree that the checks that Tesco carried out at the time werent enough to show 
that the credit was likely to have been affordable. 
It follows that I dont think Tesco should have granted Mr S this account. 
Putting things right  what Tesco needs to do
As I dont think Tesco ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to be able 
to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Mr S should pay 
back the amounts he has borrowed. Therefore, Tesco should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr S along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Tesco should also remove all adverse information regarding this 
account from Mr Ss credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Tesco should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr S for the remaining amount. Once Mr S has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from his credit file. 
Given that Tesco sold the outstanding balance on this account to a third party in August 
2019, it either needs to buy the account back from the third party and make the 
necessary adjustments; pay an amount to the third party so it can make the necessary 
adjustments  which I understand may have already happened; or pay Mr S an amount to 
ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman