DRN-2126132
The complaint
Mr N complains Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. 
(Mapfre) hasnt settled his claim for medical costs following him becoming unwell abroad. 
My references to Mapfre will also include its agents. 
What happened
Mr N held an annual travel insurance policy with Mapfre. He travelled abroad and 
unfortunately became unwell and required hospital treatment. Mr N extended his 
accommodation abroad until he was fit to fly home. And he later made a claim against his 
policy for his medical and additional accommodation costs. 
After Mr N had sent Mapfre copies of documentation including hospital reports and invoices 
for the cost of his accommodation, Mapfre repeated its request for the documents in a letter 
to him. It explained what additional information it needed relating to Mr Ns flights and 
accommodation. But didnt explain what else it needed in regard to the medical element of 
the claim. Mr N queried this, and when Mapfre responded, it said the medical documentation 
Mr N had supplied was insufficient, but it gave no further explanation. 
Mr N complained to Mapfre. It responded and said it still hadnt received all of the 
information it had requested to assess Mr Ns claim, including medical reports and hospital 
admission and discharge documents. However, it said some of the correspondence it had 
sent to Mr N could have been improved, and it offered £150 in compensation. 
Unhappy with Mapfres response, Mr N brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened. She said she thought Mapfre should 
have communicated more clearly with Mr N, and she thought the £150 it had offered to 
recognise this was fair. She said as Mapfre hadnt yet reached an outcome on Mr Ns claim, 
she couldnt ask it to do anything more. And she provided Mr N with contact details for him to 
continue progressing his claim with Mapfre.
Mapfre didnt respond to the investigators view. Mr N said he didnt accept the view, and 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. And so the case has been passed to me to make 
a final decision. 
Mr N has since continued his claim with Mapfre and has made a further complaint which is 
being handled separately. So I wont be commenting any further on that in this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the investigators view. And Ill explain why. 
Insurers have a responsibility to deal with claims promptly and fairly and should not 
unreasonably reject a claim. In this case, Mapfre hasnt rejected Mr Ns claim, as it hasnt 
completed its assessment of it. However, I dont think Mapfre has acted entirely fairly when 
advising Mr N of the information it needed to assess his claim. 
Mr N provided documentation about his hospital treatment, yet Mapfre continued to request 
this of him without explaining why. In one of its letters to Mr N, Mapfre stated that the 
medical documentation was insufficient, but it didnt give any reasoning. So I think its 
understandable that Mr N didnt know what else was required of him to evidence his claim. 
Mapfre accepted that its communications should have been clearer, and it offered Mr N £150 
to recognise this. And in the circumstances of this case, I think thats a fair amount in relation 
to the inconvenience caused to Mr N. 
I appreciate that Mr N would like Mapfre to pay his claim. However, as Mapfre has not yet 
made a decision and still requires further evidence from Mr N to assess the claim, it wouldnt 
be fair for me to direct Mapfre to pay it. 
Im aware that Mr N is in further communication with Mapfre about his claim and the 
evidence it requires.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. has already 
made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. should pay Mr N £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman