DRN-3051534
The complaint
Mr W has complained about a loan granted to him by Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, (ELL), which he said was unaffordable.
 
What happened
ELL agreed a loan for Mr W on 26 May 2018. The loan was for £5,000 and was repayable by 
24 monthly payments of £368.82. The interest rate on the loan was 60.9%, (81% APR). If  
Mr W made each repayment when it was due, he would pay £8,851.68 in total.
Mr W said that when he applied for the loan, he was suffering from a gambling addiction and 
had an extremely bad credit rating which ELL was aware of. This loan was totally 
unaffordable for him at the time and ELL should not have even considered him due to his 
circumstances and the problems he had that were all too clear to see.
ELL said in its final response letter that during the loan sale its checks included: 
- Obtaining and reviewing up to two months bank statements from a customers primary 
bank account 
- Obtaining and reviewing one months payslip 
- Conducting a credit search with a credit reference agency 
- Carrying out a job check 
As part of its underwriting, ELL said it had used statistical data from the Office for National 
Statistics (ONS) to calculate Mr Ws living costs. Mr Ws monthly financial commitments 
together with his general living expenses were calculated as £1,869.26. ELLs affordability 
calculation at the time showed Mr W had a monthly disposable income of £646.12 after 
taking into account his consolidated loans and its monthly repayments. It believed the 
checks completed were reasonable and proportionate and that the loan was sustainable 
over the term as Mr W had a disposable income. ELL believed Mr W would have been able 
to make the repayments to his loan without undue difficulty over the life of the credit 
agreement. 
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She said that ELL had 
made proportionate checks but the information it had seen was concerning. Looking at ELLs 
credit report, she could see that Mr W had a number of credit cards that were being utilised 
to the maximum limit. He had also taken out numerous payday loans before applying for this 
loan. These were signs that Mr W wasnt able to manage his money well. The adjudicator 
also noted that Mr Ws overall debt would have increased quite significantly after taking out 
this loan, so consolidating wouldnt have improved his financial position. She could see that 
ELL had reviewed Mr Ws bank statements from around the time of the loan approval and it 
would have seen that he was spending over £400 towards gambling transactions. Even after 
consolidating Mr W would still be paying a substantial amount of his monthly income towards 
other credit repayments, and because of this he wouldnt have been able to repay the loan in 
a sustainable manner.  
ELL disagreed and responded to say that the loan had reduced Mr Ws monthly creditor 
repayments and he would still have £200 disposable income left after his gambling was 
taken into account.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr W has suffered health and financial difficulties. 
When ELL lent to Mr W the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its rules and 
guidance obliged ELL to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that ELL needed 
to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford 
to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so ELL had to think about whether Mr W could 
sustainably repay his loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr W undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr W. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period);ELL did a number of checks before it lent to Mr W. It also spoke to Mr W and discussed his 
application. I can see that it had asked Mr W for details of his employment, monthly income 
and rent and it had also used ONS data to estimate the rest of Mr Ws expenditure. ELL 
asked Mr W to provide a payslip and two calendar months bank statements to verify what 
hed said about his finances. Mr W was only able to provide bank statements for one month 
(6 April 2018 to 5 May 2018). ELL accepted bank statements for one month here. ELL also 
checked Mr Ws credit file to assess how much he was paying other creditors and how hed 
managed his credit in the past. It used the results of those checks to calculate Mr Ws credit 
commitments.
Mr W was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to make monthly 
repayments of £368.82 for 24 months. So, I think it was right that ELL wanted to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ws financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above allowed ELL to form a 
detailed view of Mr Ws finances, and I think that the checks ELL did were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, 
Ive looked at the results of ELLs checks to see whether it made a fair lending decision.
Mr Ws monthly income was £2,297.44. ELL was also aware that Mr W lived with his 
parents. He had told ELL the loan was to be used for debt consolidation, and I can see from 
ELLs notes that Mr W intended to repay his four largest payday loans, and that he would 
have around £1,000 left after repayment of these loans.
Ive reviewed ELLs credit checks before the loan. I can see that Mr W was paying around 
£424 each month on a hire purchase agreement with around two years left to run. I can also 
see that Mr W had four active payday loans taken out in the six months before his loan 
application, with the most recent loan in April 2018. I can see that the checks also showed 
that Mr W had taken out payday loans from July 2017 to September 2017 which had since 
been settled. When I include these settled loans, I can see that Mr W had taken out a 
payday loan in seven of the ten months prior to the loan application. I think this suggests a 
reliance on payday loans to supplement his income and that Mr W was having problems 
managing his money. 
I also note from ELLs credit checks that Mr W had four active credit cards, the most recent 
of which had been taken out less than four months before his loan application. The balances 
on all four credit cards were at or very near their respective credit limits. There was also a 
defaulted credit card balance from 2014. This had a default balance of £514 but the credit 
record hadnt been updated since April 2014, so its not clear whether this had been repaid. 
There wasnt an overdraft balance on Mr Ws current account. I can see that he didnt have 
an overdraft arrangement. 
I think ELL was likely to be aware that its credit checks might not have revealed the full 
extent of Mr Ws credit commitments (and the bank statements it saw suggested that this 
was the case). A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some 
data might be missing or anonymised. Its checks might not necessarily be up to date. Also, 
not all lenders reported to the same credit reference agencies.
Overall, I think the results of its credit checks ought to have caused ELL concerns as I think 
they suggested that Mr W was struggling to manage his money as shown especially by his 
frequent use of and reliance on payday loans and his four credit cards around their credit limits. And I think they might also have reasonably caused doubt on the accuracy of the 
disposable income it had calculated.
I can also see that ELL had listed and calculated Mr Ws monthly credit commitments. This 
included three recent payday loans totalling £600 taken out in April 2018 which werent in its 
credit checks but were shown on the bank statements Mr W supplied to ELL. 
I can see from ELLs contact notes that it was concerned about Mr Ws use of payday loans, 
although he was consolidating his four largest payday loans, and was left with three small 
loans to pay. It also noted from the bank statements that Mr W was spending around £420 
on gambling. ELL said in its contact notes:
Customer does have several betting transactions and payday loans however loan is to 
consolidate all loans and customer is aware of the effect of payday loan usage and betting.
This on initial look was/is a risky loan purely due to the payday loan usage and then small 
betting added to which the customer states is just fun now and again to which I explained 
some payday loans have been used to play..we tried to get additional stats to see how 
repetitive this is but to no avail
I note from the bank statements ELL received that Mr W was gambling on 21 of the 30 days 
of the statement period, and on two of the days he didnt gamble, he had less than £5 in his 
account. I also note that Mr W told this Service that he was suffering from a gambling 
addiction at the time of taking out the loan, although it doesnt appear that he had told ELL 
this. But I think ELL could have seen from the statements it had, that Mr Ws gambling was 
more than just fun now and again especially as it had noted that Mr W was borrowing 
payday loans just for the purpose of gambling when he had no money left in his current 
account. I can see that Mr W was spending a significant proportion of his income on 
gambling. The gambling transactions were frequent enough that I think it was more likely 
than not that the gambling would continue in the same pattern. And it points to a pattern of 
spending that posed a risk to Mr W being able to repay the loan sustainably. 
I can also see on the bank statements ELL had seen that Mr W made relatively high cash 
withdrawals totalling around £570. I asked the adjudicator to ask Mr W for more information 
about these. He said these would have been used for gambling and fuel for travel to and 
from work.  I can also see on the statements that there were several transfers to other 
accounts. Mr W said that he was making transfers into a savings account, but all of that 
money was used for gambling and the account balance was always zero within a day or so. 
He was also repaying money he had borrowed from family members. Mr W told this Service 
that he was gambling everything he had. 
ELL calculated a disposable income of around £646. Im concerned that ELL seems to have 
accepted at face value that Mr W had a monthly disposable income of some £646 a month 
when the pattern of spending on his bank statement and the need to take out four payday 
loans during the period of that statement shows that he was having difficulty managing his 
money. In the three days before Mr W received his April salary, he had less than £5 in his 
account. 
I asked the adjudicator to ask Mr W for his other current account statements from the period 
before his loan application and Mr W has provided these. Ive reviewed these and can see 
that Mr W was still struggling to manage his money. There was the same pattern of frequent 
gambling and relatively high cash withdrawals in those statements that I could see in the 
statements ELL had seen. I also note that Mr W had borrowed a large payday loan for £820 in late March 2018 to supplement his income. And at the time Mr W applied for ELLs loan, 
hed had less than £5 in his current account for three days.
I can also see that Mr W was increasing his total indebtedness by taking out ELLs loan. 
Whilst the loan proceeds were being used to repay four loans totalling around £4,000, Mr W 
needed £8,851.68 to repay ELLs loan. So, it appears that his total indebtedness was being 
increased as well as the time hed be indebted for. The term of ELLs loan was much longer 
than the loan terms for the loans Mr W said he intended to clear. So, any short-term 
improvement in the amount of Mr Ws credit commitments was significantly off-set by Mr W 
having to pay ELLs high cost loan for 24 months.
I note that ELL said that the loan was sustainable over the term as Mr W had a disposable 
income. But this assumed Mr Ws need for credit wasnt an ongoing one. I note that Mr W 
had taken out at least one payday loan in eight of the previous ten months (including the 
payday loan Id seen in his March 2018 bank statement) and I think his reliance on 
expensive short term loans to meet his existing spending showed that this wasnt a 
reasonable assumption. It seems to me there was a risk here that Mr W would need to 
borrow to meet his repayments on this loan, as he was currently doing so for his existing 
spending.
And I can see from later bank statements Mr W provided to this Service that he continued to 
borrow from short term lenders in the months following ELLs loan, and I think this was 
foreseeable. I note that within three months of taking out ELLs loan Mr W had taken out 
another four payday loans totalling £1,350. 
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for ELL to conclude that Mr W would be able to repay 
the loan in a sustainable manner from the information it had received from its checks. And I 
dont think ELL made a fair lending decision when it agreed to give this loan to Mr W. So, I 
think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld and that ELL needs to put things right as shown 
below.
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
I understand that the loan hasnt been fully repaid, but I can see that Mr W has repaid more 
than the principal amount. In order to put Mr W back into the position he would have been 
had the loan not been agreed for him, ELL needs to ensure that Mr W only repays the 
principal borrowed on the loan. In other words, Mr W shouldnt repay more than the capital 
amount of £5,000 he borrowed. So, ELL needs to:
a) treat all payments that Mr W has made towards the loan as payments towards the
principal amount borrowed;
b) as Mr W has made payments above the capital amount of £5,000, these should be 
refunded to him, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these amounts from 
the date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
c) remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Ws credit file.
If ELL has sold the outstanding debt on the loan, it should buy it back if it is able to do so or 
chooses to do so and then take the steps listed above. If ELL isnt able to buy the debt back 
or chooses not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to bring about steps a) to c) 
above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
  My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, to pay compensation to Mr W 
and take the steps set out above under the heading Putting things right  what ELL needs 
to do. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman