DRN-2797446
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, advised that theyd be 
suspending his credit account.
What happened
Mr P had held his Barclays credit account since 2002, but in November 2020 he received a 
letter from Barclays advising that theyd be suspending his account in a few months. Mr P 
wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ps complaint. But they noted that Mr Ps account had been deemed 
as being in persistent debt, and that they had followed the guidelines laid out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) for dealing with accounts considered to be in persistent 
debt. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Barclays had acted 
in accordance with the FCA guidelines regarding accounts in persistent debt. So, they also 
didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In March 2018, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued new rules and guidance about
persistent debt. These rules mean that businesses have an obligation to identify where a
customer has paid more towards interest and charges than towards clearing the capital
balance of any borrowing  as can often be the case where, for instance, the minimum 
monthly payment is made on an account - and an account is considered as being in 
persistent debt if this is the case. 
Under the guidelines, if a customers account meets the definition of persistent debt over an 
18 month period, then the business is required to send out a series of correspondence 
informing customers of the steps they can take for the account to no longer be considered as 
being in persistent debt, as well advising the customer of the actions that the business may 
need to take if that customers account continues to meet the definition of being in persistent 
debt for a further 18 months.
For any accounts that remain within the definition of persistent debt for a further 18 months, 
the business has a responsibility to take action, which can include the suspension or 
cancellation of accounts so that the account doesnt remain in persistent debt indefinitely.
Having reviewed all the information available to me, its clear that this is what Barclays did 
here. They first sent Mr P a letter in 2018, advising Mr P that his account was considered as 
having met the criteria of being in persistent debt for the past 18 months and explaining that 
Mr P needed to increase his monthly repayments in order to avoid the account still being 
considered in persistent debt moving forwards. 
Barclays also sent a letter to Mr P in November 2019  the letter about which Mr P has 
complained  which explained that Mr Ps account was still considered in persistent debt and 
that further action might be required by Barclays if Mr P was unable to make the larger 
payments necessary for his account to no longer be considered as such.
Mr P has confirmed to this service that he had increased his monthly repayment amount to 
£75, and so was taking steps so that his account wouldnt continue to be considered as 
being in persistent debt. 
I can understand Mr Ps frustration regarding this point. But whether an account remains in 
persistent debt is determined by a calculation - of the amount of the capital balance repaid 
on the account since the account was first identified as being in persistent debt. 
And in this instance, while Mr P did increase his payments to £75 per month, this increase 
wasnt implemented early enough such that Mr P had paid more against the capital balance 
on the account than hed paid in interest and charges during the period of time under 
consideration.
This meant that Mr Ps account continued to be considered as being in persistent debt, and 
so I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably censure Barclays for following the FCA 
guidelines for accounts considered as being in persistent debt under these circumstances. 
It also must be noted that Barclays did explain to Mr P on several occasions about the level 
of monthly payment that would be required to be paid against the account in order for the 
account to no longer be considered as being in persistent debt at the end of the assessment 
period, and Im satisfied that the correspondence that Barclays sent to Mr P was clear as to 
why his account was considered as being in persistent debt and explained what steps Mr P 
could take to resolve the issue.
Mr P has also expressed his confusion that, in a later persistent debt letter, Barclays offered 
him a payment plan of £18 per month  which was considerably lower than the £75 he was 
paying at that time. 
However, at that stage, Mr Ps account had continued to remain in persistent debt for a 
further 18 months from the time it was first recognised as being in persistent debt. When this 
is the case, the FCA guidelines stipulate that certain types of reduced interest payment plans 
should be offered to customers  and thats what Barclays did here. And it must be noted 
that Mr P had the option of accepting the reduced payment plan, and benefitting from the 
reduced rate of interest on that plan, while continuing to make larger payments such as the 
£75 per month he was already paying at that time, if he wished to do so.
But Mr P chose not to accept the pay plan offered by Barclays and opted instead to pay off 
the remaining balance in full and close the account. I understand that there may have been 
account restrictions and consequences with regard Mr Ps credit file that influenced his 
decision here, but it remains the case that Barclays were administering Mr Ps credit account 
in line with the FCA guidance here, as explained above.I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr P was wanting here, but given that Barclays 
were acting in accordance with the FCA guidelines on persistent debt, it follows that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action at this time. 
I hope that Mr P can understand, given everything Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman