DRN-3411559
The complaint
Mr C and Miss K complain about QIC Europe Ltds (QIC) handling of claim made on their 
buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2021, Mr C and Miss K say significant rainfall caused a river running behind their 
home to flood. They say this flood led to a landslip in their neighbours garden, which 
damaged the boundary wall, fence, and garden. The retaining wall runs along three 
properties. 
Mr C and Miss K logged a claim with QIC. They declined the claim saying the policy doesnt 
cover landslip claims where damage isnt caused to the main property at the same time. Mr 
C and Miss K said the landslip was caused by the storm conditions, so should be covered. 
QIC continued to decline the claim. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr C and Miss K referred their complaint to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who initially said QIC was acting fairly in declining 
claim. Mr C and Miss K provided our investigator with more information about the weather 
conditions in place when the damage occurred. This persuaded the investigator to conclude 
storm conditions had caused the landslip, and that QIC should consider the claim. As QIC 
didnt agree, this case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QIC initially declined the claim, saying because the property itself wasnt damaged, then the 
landslip cover didnt come into effect. In reaching this conclusion, QIC were relying from this 
clause in the terms and conditions, which states it wont cover: 
c. loss or damage to fences, hedgesboundary and garden walls, unless the 
main building you live in is damaged at the same time and by the same cause. 
QIC initially declined the claim, saying because the property itself wasnt damaged, then the 
landslip cover didnt come into effect. In reaching this conclusion, QIC were relying from this 
clause in the terms and conditions, which states it wont cover:
c. loss or damage to fences, hedgesboundary and garden walls, unless the 
main building you live in is damaged at the same time and by the same cause.
QIC says the proximate cause of the damage was the landslip. I agree that this appears to 
be the cause of the damange. But, like our investigator, I agree QIC hasnt evidenced why or 
how the landslip occurred. With this in mind, Ive considered Mr C and Miss Ks comments 
about the weather conditions that occurred when the damage happened. 
Ive reviewed the weather data from the point in July when the damage occurred. The 
nearest weather station is seven miles north of Mr C and Miss Ks home. Theyve provided 
copies of local media reports, widely covering the storm conditions in the city centre, 5 miles 
east from their home. On this basis, our investigator considered if the weather data may 
shown the most accurate assessment of the weather conditions at Mr C and Miss Ks home 
at the time the damage occurred. 
Ive considered how the policy defines storm conditions, and this is set out below:
A period of violent weather defined as:
a. a gale of Force 10 or above (as defined under the internationally
recognised Beaufort Scale) reaching wind speeds of at least 55mph; or
b. torrential rain that falls at a rate of at least 25mm per hour; or
c. snow that falls to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 hours; or
d. hail so sever that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
The storm section of the policy also contains an exclusion:
We dont cover:

b. loss or damage to drives, patios, footpaths, terraces, gates, fences and hedges 
unless your home has been damaged at the same time and by the same cause
Theres no dispute weather data is useful in determining if storm conditions were present 
when damage occurred. However, Im not considering the data in isolation. So, while Im 
mindful of the policy definition of storm, Ive also considered the additional information 
provided, alongside the weather data. This includes the media reports supplied by Mr C and 
Miss K. 
Im satisfied, having considered both the weather data and the local media reports, that 
storm conditions were present at Mr C and Miss Ks home when they identified the damage. 
And Im also satisfied the damage to the retaining wall and fence are consistent with damage 
that could occur during storm conditions. 
QIC has said the proximate cause of the damage was a landslip. Theres no dispute a 
landslip occurred. However, what I need to decide is if I think it is more likely than not that 
the storm was the cause of the landslip. In order to be more persuaded by QICs argument 
the landslip alone was the proximate cause of the damage, Id expect it to be able to 
evidence how or why the landslip occurred. It hasnt done so.
I acknowledge it may seem the landslip happened suddenly or without an obvious cause. I 
dont think QIC have supported their view this is more likely to have happened. In light of the 
evidence available to me, I am more persuaded the landslip was caused by the storm 
conditions that occurred in July 2021. It follows, that I dont consider QIC acted fairly in 
declining Mr C and Miss Ks claim. To put things right, Im requiring QIC to settle the claim 
for Mr C and Miss Ks boundary wall in line with the remaining policy terms. My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to settle Mr C and Miss Ks claim for the 
boundary wall.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss K 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman