DRN-4159374
The complaint
Mr G complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Amazon Platinum Credit Card gave him 
incorrect information which resulted in him missing out on a rebranded credit card and his 
account being closed.
What happened
Mr G received correspondence from NewDay that they were rebranding from one brand to 
another brand which would give him benefits such as cashback, and he had to contact them 
before the deadline set to opt in, otherwise his account would be closed. Mr G rang NewDay 
before the deadline set, but the call handler told him that his account would automatically 
switch over and he wouldnt have to do anything, however, a couple of days later his account 
was closed. Mr G says he was unable to apply for the credit card again as they werent 
taking new applicants. Mr G made a complaint to NewDay. 
NewDay did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. They said he would have received an email to 
advise him that a letter was available for him to read about the rebranding. They said they 
also sent him further text messages and emails to remind him about the change and the 
steps he needed to take to opt in. They said as he didnt opt into the new card before the 
deadline, they were unable to provide him with the new card and his account had been 
closed. Mr G brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint. He said NewDay admitted that their call handler 
gave Mr G incorrect information on the call as they said he would automatically update to the 
new card, which was incorrect. Our investigator said that as a result of this information, Mr 
Gs account was closed and he lost an account with a £5,000 credit limit, through no fault of 
his own. He also said that Mr G lost out on the rewards the new account offered such as 
cashback. 
Mr G asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said the offer made doesnt 
compensate him for the time lost spent on phone calls to NewDay, let alone the financial 
impact. He said NewDay made it as difficult as possible for customers to switch over to the 
new credit facility.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay have admitted that the call handler gave Mr G incorrect information which led to no 
action being taken. This meant Mr G lost out on the opportunity of the new card which 
included benefits such as cashback on the account. Due to this card not now being offered 
to new applicants, then he has lost out on the opportunity to hold this card through no fault of 
his own. I would be unable to ask NewDay to reinstate this offer for Mr G as it would be up to 
a business who they lend to, and Mr Gs financial situation or NewDays internal lending 
criteria could have changed since Mr G was denied the opportunity to open the new account.
I know Mr G feels the offer is too low and doesnt compensate him for time lost on the phone 
to NewDay. He also feels a lot of other customers are in similar situations to what he found 
himself in. But our awards are not designed to punish a business or to make it change the 
way it acts in order to protect other customers in the future. That is the role of the regulator.
Mr G will have been distressed by what happened. He lost a £5,000 credit limit and an 
expectation was set for him that he didnt have to do anything to transfer over to the new 
account. Mr G had acted by ringing NewDay - like his letter instructed him to. But due to the 
interaction with the call handler, he had a wasted call. And he wasnt able to apply for the 
same card again due to this not being offered for new applicants. So Im persuaded that 
£200 is proportionate for what happened here and it follows Ill be asking NewDay to put 
things right for Mr G.
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that NewDay pay Mr G £200 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Amazon Platinum Credit Card should pay Mr 
G £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman