DRN-3432221
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain Elevate Portfolio Services Limited (Elevate) should have acted to 
stop their accounts falling in value in 2018.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M contacted Elevate in June 2018 asking why their accounts had lost around 
£1800 since their January statement. They said they appreciated shares can go up and 
down, but this seemed like a large loss in a short time. They asked the same thing again in 
November 2020, this time adding that another investment they had made around £600 in the 
same period. 
Mr and Mrs M have quoted two Elevate account references. Elevates reply has referred to 
only one investment fund, so I assume both accounts were entirely invested in this one fund. 
Ill refer to this fund below as The Fund. From what Elevate has sent, Mr and Mrs M were 
comparing the values of their January and April 2018 statements.
Elevate replied in 2018 and 2020. On the second occasion it spoke to Mr and Mrs M and, 
according to its notes, said, in broad terms, that a funds performance will reflect the sectors 
in which it invests  and funds that invest in different sectors will perform differently. It then 
provided a complaint response that said the drop in the value of The Fund was linked to a 
drop in the stock market and Elevate had no control over that. It said its terms and conditions 
made clear that all investments involve some risk and that their values can go up and down.
Mr and Mrs M closed their Elevate accounts in November 2018, after it had responded to 
their first enquiry.
In 2021 Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to us. In brief they said:
They knew shares can fluctuate but their loss was high and not reasonable  they 
had a similar investment that had made £600.
They relied on Elevate to keep losses to a minimum and at least make an attempt to 
limit losses and they feel Elevate failed to do this.
Theyd trusted Elevate it to show due diligence with their money. Elevate had still 
taken fees even though the investments had lost money. 
I sent my provisional decision in May 2022, explaining why, from what Id seen, I didnt plan 
to uphold the complaint. Elevate and Mr and Mrs M didnt give me anything new in reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of anything new since my provisional decision, Ive 
arrived at the same conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. So Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, in essence, is that Elevate owed them a duty that involved taking 
action to prevent or reduce the reduction in value that occurred on their accounts between 
January and April 2018.
But from what Ive seen, Elevate didnt owe them any duty of that kind. Instead, its role was 
to provide a way for Mr and Mrs M to access, hold, buy and sell certain investments. It did 
this by providing and administering the Elevate accounts  and it charged fees for providing 
this service. The Elevate accounts were not investments themselves but accounts that could 
hold investments.
It appears the administration of the Elevate accounts included providing quarterly valuations 
of the investments within the accounts, like the statements that led to this complaint. It also 
included taking and carrying out instructions like the instructions Mr and Mrs M gave to close 
the accounts in 2018. But, as Ill explain below, it didnt involve monitoring or intervening in 
the investments held within the accounts to help Mr and Mrs M anticipate, avoid or reduce 
falls in value. So the fact Elevate didnt do this, doesnt mean it did anything wrong.
Elevate has told us Mr and Mrs Ms Elevate accounts started in 2011 and it has provided an 
undated declaration it says they wouldve signed at that time. This says Mr and Mrs M were 
being advised at that time to invest through the Elevate platform by an adviser working for 
another financial business (not Elevate).
Elevate says that to start their Elevate accounts, Mr and Mrs M had existing accounts or 
services transferred onto the Elevate platform. From what Elevate has said, I understand 
Mr and Mrs M already had their investments in The Fund before they moved to Elevate. 
I dont know when Mr and Mrs M originally invested in The Fund, but their complaint isnt 
about their decision to invest in the fund. Also I dont have full details of what happened 
when Mr and Mrs M were advised to use the Elevate platform in 2011. But that advice was 
given by a different business. Elevate only became involved after that. In any case, 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is not about advice in 2011 to use the Elevate platform  but 
about what they consider to be failings by Elevate in the first quarter of 2018.
Elevate has provided its current Key Features Document and Terms and Conditions for its 
ISA and non-ISA accounts. It thinks the content wont have changed much over the years. 
The terms appear to anticipate that an adviser or discretionary manager will normally instruct 
any changes to investments and be the first point of contact between a customer and 
Elevate. But, referring to Mr and Mrs M, Elevate has told us: 
They were a non-advised account and therefore no further advice was given to them after 
this and any decisions would have been made by the customers. 
I understand from this that, as well as Elevate not giving advice, there wasnt any other 
adviser in touch with Elevate on Mr and Mrs Ms behalf generally.
The terms say Elevate is a wrap platform  that is, it provides a way of buying, holding and 
selling investments to which it provides access. In this case the investment Mr and Mrs M 
held on the platform, within their accounts, is The Fund. Ive seen nothing to suggest Elevate 
shouldnt have allowed Mr and Mrs M to hold in their accounts their investments in The Fund 
or to use that platform to sell their investments in The Fund. Providing a wrap platform that gives access to investments, doesnt mean Elevate provides 
or manages the investments themselves. Elevate says it doesnt manage The Fund. From 
what Ive seen, it doesnt - that is done by a fund manager which is a separate business. So 
Elevate didnt have any power or any duty to change or affect how the fund was invested.
Providing a wrap platform also doesnt mean Elevate provides advice on what investments 
to hold, buy or sell  or on the suitability of holding them through its wrap platform. If that sort 
of advice was wanted here it wouldve had to be obtained separately by Mr and Mrs M by 
using a financial adviser of their own (who theyd have had to agree terms with separately). 
The terms Elevate has sent says details of the roles and responsibilities of Elevate and of 
other parties are set out in section 2 of a further set of terms and conditions (for the Elevate 
offering more generally). Ive seen a copy of those terms online and in section 2 it says:
We do not act as an adviser, discretionary manager, investment manager or provide advice 
about tax matters. We will carry out your advisers instructions and accept orders in good 
faith and we will not assess the suitability of any advice. We are not responsible for:
a. providing you with investment advice or tax advice or for ensuring that Elevate, a 
particular product wrapper or any investments are suitable for you, or
b. any investment made by you following the advice, recommendation or decision of any 
third party (including your adviser or discretionary manager).
It seems the value of Mr and Mrs Ms Elevate accounts fell because the value of The Fund 
fell. But based on what I have, I dont think Elevate had a duty to give Mr and Mrs M advice 
about when to invest in or sell The Fund, or on whether to try other funds instead. Elevate 
wasnt responsible for Mr and Mrs M deciding to buy, hold or sell The Fund.
Id add that even if Elevate had been responsible for giving Mr and Mrs M advice, or for 
managing the fund, this still wouldnt mean that it ought to have anticipated that The Fund 
would fall sharply at the start of 2018  or that it would later recover  or that a different fund 
might have performed better over that period. Its usually not possible to know those sorts of 
things in advance  they are usually only known later and with the benefit of hindsight.
In conclusion, Elevate offered a way for Mr and Mrs M to hold investments but its role didnt 
include trying to anticipate, prevent or reduce falls in values of investments Mr and Mrs M 
might choose to hold, nor was it responsible for advising them to hold, buy or sell those 
investments. With this and all Ive said above in mind, I dont think Elevate did anything 
wrong by not taking action to try to prevent or reduce the reduction in value that occurred on 
Mr and Mrs Ms accounts between January and April 2018.
It follows that I dont think it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to ask Elevate to compensate 
Mr and Mrs M for that fall in value. 
For this reason and in light of all Ive said above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Im grateful to Mr and Mrs M for their patience and courtesy throughout our consideration of 
this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman