DRN-2815156
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that MBNA Limited gave him inaccurate information regarding industry 
acceptance of bank giro slips.
What happened
Mr L had been told by MBNA that he could make a payment against his MBNA account over 
the counter at any other bank using a bank giro slip provided by MBNA. However, when Mr L 
visited a branch of another high street bank, he was told by that other bank that this wasnt 
possible. Mr L wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
MBNA looked at Mr Ls complaint. They felt that the other high street bank should have 
accepted the giro slip, but they made a payment to Mr L of £85 as a gesture of goodwill and 
to cover any costs that he might have incurred. 
Mr L wasnt satisfied with MBNAs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt the payment of £85 that MBNA 
had already made to Mr L represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had 
happened, so they didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ls frustration at having been specifically told by MBNA that he would 
be able to pay at any other bank using a giro slip, only to find that this wasnt possible when 
he visited a branch of another bank to make the payment.
Giro slips are generally accepted across the financial industry, and its surprising to learn 
that this particular high street branch declined Mr Ls attempt to make a payment against his 
MBNA account using that method.
Because of this, I dont feel that MBNAs explanation to Mr L about the possibility of paying 
via giro slip at another bank was negligent or irresponsible in any way, and I feel that it was 
reasonable for MBNA to have expected the other bank that Mr L visited to have accepted the 
giro slip payment over their counter. However, this wasnt the case, and because of this Mr L 
did incur some inconvenience here. 
So, its commendable that MBNA made a goodwill payment of £85 to Mr L to ensure that any 
costs that he had incurred in visiting the other bank were covered. 
I realise that Mr L feels that MBNAs response here doesnt go far enough. Matters of 
compensation and goodwill payments can be subjective, and a payment considered as 
being fair and reasonable by one party might not be considered as such by someone else. 
But the £85 that MBNA have already paid to Mr L feels fair to me here, and I note that its 
commensurate with what this service would expect, given what took place.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr L was wanting, but it follows from this that I 
feel that MBNAs response to Mr Ls complaint, including the payment of £85, does 
represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. And this means that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking MBNA to take any further action at this time.
I hope that Mr L can understand, given everything that I have explained above, why I have 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman