DRN-1515290
 
The complaint
Ms W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc placed a restriction on her money that meant a 
property purchase fell through.
What happened
Ms W says in January 2019 she decided to sell a property she owned and buy another. She 
says she asked HSBC if she could deposit the sale proceeds in a savings account and use 
that money for the new investment property. Ms W says the money was transferred into the 
account on 14 March 2019 but was not available for her to use immediately and as a result 
the property she intended to buy was sold to someone else. She says she bought another 
property that cost nearly £20,000 more and also lost her rental income on the property she 
sold and would like HSBC to compensate for these losses. Ms W would also like 
compensation for the stress she 's been caused as a result of HSBC's actions.
HSBC accepts it made a mistake by not noticing Ms W's account was dormant . It says that 
is the reason she was unable to use the money immediately and has apologised and paid 
£100 compensation for its mistake. HSBC says this was a CHAPS payment in any event that 
was guaranteed to be paid into Ms W's account that day and so there would have been a 
possibility it was received after the cut off time to buy the new property . It says it's asked for 
evidence from Ms W about the property sale and would review any costs incurred by her.
Ms W brought her complaint to us but our investigator thought HSBC had dealt fairly with it. 
The investigator didn't think HSBC was responsible for a lost business investment 
opportunity and that there was no guarantee,as the CHAPS payment system was used, that 
the money would have been available for Ms W to use when needed. The investigator 
thought HSBC's offer to consider any costs reasonable but Ms W hadn't provided any 
evidence of them.
Ms W doesn't accept that view and says the money was in her account in time for the 
property to be bought. But she couldn't use it due to HSBC failing to notice the fact it was a 
dormant account. She says she visited the property on a number of occasions and has 
provided a receipt for a report on the building's roof.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Ms W will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that HSBC made a mistake by not noticing Ms W's account was 
dormant which meant the money that was paid into her account on 14 March 2019 at just 
before 10am was not available for her to use until about 11.45. I have no doubt Ms W spent 
some time speaking to HSBC about this and would have been caused inconvenience. But I'm satisfied that HSBC has fairly apologised for that mistake and paid what I think is a fair 
and reasonable level of compensation for that part of the complaint.
The key question is if HSBC should pay for the loss of the investment , loss of rent on the 
property Ms W sold to fund the new purchase and any related  losses or costs. And I have 
come to the overall view that it would be unfair to order HSBC to pay for any of those losses 
or costs. I don't think Ms W has given HSBC or us any evidence that shows she had entered 
into a contract to buy the property and or any details about the purchase date and any 
deadlines. It may have been the case that this was a property for sale in an auction. But I 
don't think Ms W has provided any information on this point or explained if it was for sale in 
an auction why she would have been the successful bider.
I also think that there would have been no guarantee Ms W would have received the money 
on  the morning of 14 March 2019 as this was a CHAPS payment which was guaranteed to 
have reached the account before 17.00 on 14 March 2019. I would also have expected Ms 
W to have made sure the money was available for use some time prior to it being needed if 
the property purchase had a deadline as she says.
I don't think HSBC can fairly be responsible for the loss of rental income on the property Ms 
W sold. I can see that Ms W has told us she made that decision to sell that property in 
January 2019. And for the reasons I have explained,I have not seen any documentary 
evidence that shows HSBC was responsible for the investment purchase falling through in 
March 2019 such as a contract drawn up by Ms W's solicitors or that she would have been 
successful in buying the property if it were for sale in auction. It follows that I don't think 
HSBC can't fairly be responsible for the fact that the property Ms W did buy cost more as it's 
likely that property is worth more and so Ms W hasn't lost out financially.
Overall I'm satisfied HSBC has paid a fair and reasonable level of compensation. I don't 
think Ms W has provided any evidence of costs she has paid out such as legal fees that 
HSBC ought to consider paying or that she's provided any evidence that  HSBC's actions in 
delaying access to the money led to the purchase falling through. I appreciate Ms W has 
given us a receipt for a roofing report and says she visited the property on six occasions. 
But  I think these are costs Ms W would have incurred anyway so I can't fairly order HSBC to 
reimburse them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman