DRN-3489565
The complaint
Mrs B complains Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) demanded repayment of a loan account, she had 
no knowledge of.
What happened
Mrs B says Lloyds are holding her liable for a loan she has no knowledge of and believes 
this was taken out by her late husband. Mrs B says she has never held a bank account with 
Lloyds apart from recalling her being asked to sign a document in 2014 to be added to an 
account, but nothing else. Mrs B says she doesnt recall receiving any communication from 
Lloyds about the loan account until after her husband passed away. Mrs B says Lloyds have 
been pursuing here for the debt, but she has no means to pay it and her credit file has been 
impacted as a result.
Lloyds says Mrs B signed a loan agreement and the loan monies were paid into her joint 
account with her late husband, from which a lump sum was then transferred to her. Lloyds 
says statements and arrears letters regarding the loan had been sent to the registered 
address it held for Mrs B, so she would have been aware of the loan account. Lloyds says 
the loan account now sits with its recoveries team and it is looking to put a repayment plan in 
place. Lloyds says it has acted fairly when it marked Mrs Bs credit file to reflect the loan 
account activity. 
Mrs B wasnt happy with Lloyds response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says from the evidence available, Mrs B signed a loan agreement and Lloyds 
had made Mrs B aware of the debt owed. The investigator says he couldnt hold Lloyds 
responsible for any of the correspondence it had sent not reaching her, as it was sent to the 
correct address.
The investigator says he could see that direct debits to pay the loan account had been set 
up and cancelled by Mrs B, showing she would have been aware the loan existed. The 
investigator felt Lloyds had acted fairly when it reported the activity on the loan account to 
the relevant credit reference agencies.
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I was sorry to hear of the passing of Mrs Bs husband and I can understand this must have 
been a difficult time for her. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Lloyds acted reasonably when it asked Mrs B 
to make arrangements to repay a loan, she says she has no knowledge of and hasnt 
benefited from. 
Mrs Bs complaint centres around the fact Lloyds says she took out a loan in July 2014 for a 
sum of £25,000, although she has no recollection of it. Mrs B says she recalls going into a 
branch of Lloyds in 2014, but simply to be added to her late husbands bank account, but 
she has no knowledge of agreeing to a loan account. Furthermore, Mrs B says she has 
never received any correspondence, bank cards or statements from Lloyds regarding the 
loan account and that she doesnt hold any other bank accounts with them. Mrs B says if her 
late husband had requested Lloyds to place a £25,000 loan into their joint bank account, she 
wasnt told of this. Mrs B says she has never paid any monies into that joint bank account or 
withdrew any funds from it, and she has no idea how the loan monies were spent.  
In order for me to come to a full and impartial decision here, this service requested various 
supporting documentation from Lloyds and Mrs B, which I have now reviewed. 
While Mrs B is convinced she never agreed to a loan with Lloyds and has no knowledge of it, 
the evidence I have seen means Im not fully persuaded by her argument. I say this as 
amongst the documentation I have seen, there is a loan agreement signed in Mrs Bs sole 
name and witnessed in branch by a member of its staff. Its also worth mentioning an 
accompanying contact note provided by Lloyds at that time confirms this and that the loan 
agreement terms and conditions were fully explained to Mrs B.  
Additionally, I can see the loan monies were paid into the joint account Mrs Bs says she 
agreed to be party to, with her late husband back in 2014. From the bank statements I have 
seen held in their joint names, these were addressed to both Mrs B and her late husband at 
the address Lloyds held on file at the time. The bank statements also show that around the 
time the loan was drawn, a payment, with the narrative payable to Mrs B, for £11,000 was 
withdrawn from the account. 
Its also worth saying Lloyds have provided this service with historic case and contact notes 
going back from when the loan account was drawn, in July 2014. Amongst those notes are 
references to various telephone calls between Lloyds and Mrs B, in July 2015, August 2015, 
October 2015, May 2016, July 2016  where she had passed an identification check, and the 
loan account issues were discussed. 
I can also see a number of letters had been sent to Mrs B in her sole name, including the 
loan confirmation letter dated 17 July 2014, advising her the loan had been drawn down and 
paid into her account and a direct debit had been set up for its repayment. There are a 
series of several other letters addressed to Mrs B between July 2014 and July 2016 
regarding the requirement to set up a new direct debit payment and loan account arrears 
issues. Its worth mentioning that some of these letters correspond to the contact/call notes 
referred to earlier and therefore support those discussions were held between Lloyds and 
Mrs B. 
Its fair to say a number of years have passed since the loan was first agreed and that would 
make it more difficult for Mrs B to have an accurate recollection of the events at the time, 
without it being documented, but here I am satisfied I have seen sufficient evidence. 
Although I understand Mrs B is strongly of the view she didnt agree to a loan being 
advanced to her, I am satisfied on balance, she was made aware of the loan at the time, 
even if she doesnt recall agreeing to it. While I understand Mrs B says she never received 
any of the correspondence Lloyds sent her, these were correctly addressed to her in her sole name, so I cant hold Lloyds responsible for their non-receipt, for whatever reason that 
might be. 
As far as Mrs Bs credit file is concerned, in some of the letters sent to her by Lloyds, it was 
made clear to her that any arrears or missed payments would be reported to the relevant 
credit reference agencies. This is in line with the responsibilities Lloyds have to accurately 
report bank account activity, so I cant tell them it must remove those entries. That said the 
default notice Lloyds registered in 2016 should have now expired, which hopefully gives Mrs 
B some comfort here. 
I can understand Mrs B has gone through a difficult time both emotionally and financially, but 
here, from the information made available, I am satisfied in all probability Mrs B would have 
been aware of the loan arrangement. With that in mind I cant say Lloyds are at fault here. 
I was pleased to see that Lloyds have offered to set up an appropriate and affordable 
repayment plan with Mrs B via its agents, so It would now make sense for her to discuss this 
with them.  
While Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Lloyds. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman