DRN-1250908
 
The complaint
Mr W says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr W bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Mr Ws store card application was completed to show that he wanted the PPI. But 
Mr W says he didnt tick the box, and that he didnt know the cover had been added 
to his account. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed 
between Mr W and the store assistant. Im also mindful that the sale took place over 
twenty years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over 
time. So without anything else to support what Mr W has told me, it seems to me that 
it couldve been just as likely that he was made aware the policy was optional and 
chose to take it out. On balance, I havent been able to safely conclude that FICL 
didnt make Mr W aware that he had a choice about whether to take out the policy. 
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. That means it didnt have to ask about any employer benefits Mr W might have 
been entitled to, or savings that he had. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mr W would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I 
dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman