DRN-1295503
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) wouldnt cover 
his new car on his motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy that the policy was cancelled 
and he didnt receive a partial refund of premium. He wants it to waive the outstanding 
premium it says he owes and compensate him for his trouble and upset.
What happened
Mr K called AA after he received a renewal quote. He asked if he could transfer a new car 
onto the policy, and he was told he could. Mr K then bought an electric car. The policys 
underwriter said no further cover could be provided due to the type of car, its value and a 
claim made. It cancelled the policy and didnt provide a refund due to the claim. Mr K was 
unhappy with this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
agent could have told Mr K that not all vehicles would be covered by the policy. But he 
thought Mr K hadnt explained that he intended to buy an electric car. So he didnt think the 
agent had done anything wrong. He thought the underwriter, not AA, had decided to not 
provide cover, cancel the policy and not issue a refund. So he thought Mr K should raise 
these concerns with it. 
Mr K replied that he thought hed been mis-sold a policy due to the mis-representation that it 
would transfer and this had severe financial consequences for him. He thought AA was 
accountable for the results and the effect on his credit score.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has explained, Mr Ks complaint about AA placing a marker on his credit 
record is being investigated as a separate complaint. So Im unable to consider that further 
here. 
Mr K was unhappy that the underwriter wouldnt provide cover for the new car. He was 
unhappy that it cancelled the policy and gave him no refund of premium after just three 
months on cover. The investigator has already explained that AA isnt responsible for these 
actions and Mr K should raise these concerns with the underwriter directly if he remains 
unhappy. So Im also unable to look at these points further here. 
Mr K said he was misled by the AA into renewing his policy when it didnt tell him that he 
would never be able to transfer the policy to an electric car. He said hed been mis-sold the 
policy. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the business has acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Like the investigator, Ive listened to the call Mr K made to AA prior to his renewal. Mr K told 
the agent that he intended changing his car in two months and the agent explained the 
process for transfer of the policy. The agent also explained that he could cancel the renewed 
policy mid-term and receive a refund based on his time on cover. Mr K made a claim after 
renewal, so the agent wouldnt have known about this at the time of the call. 
Mr K didnt explain that the intended new car was electric or that it was significantly more 
expensive than his current one. I dont think the agent needed to explain that the underwriter 
may not be able to cover all vehicles as I wouldnt expect him to cover all eventualities. 
In any case, Mr K still needed cover for his current car for a further three months. So I think 
hed most likely have renewed his cover even if AAs agent had covered all possible 
eventualities. 
Ive also looked at Mr Ks policy. The terms and conditions, in Section 11 Additional or 
Replacement Car state that any change of car would be subject to such terms as the 
insurer may require. So I think AA makes it clear that the underwriter would decide on the 
change of car.
So I think AA didnt mis-sell the policy as it didnt know that Mr Ks new car would be electric 
and so not covered. I cant say that AA acted unfairly or unreasonably. And so I cant say 
that it did anything wrong or needs to pay Mr K any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman