DRN-2954824
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as H has complained that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited 
unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr R, a director of H, has complained through a representative. For ease of reading, Ill refer 
to all actions of comments of the representative as being those of H. 
What happened
H runs a recruitment agency and held business interruption insurance with Hiscox. H 
claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19. H said that it closed in 
March 2020 after one of its employees experienced symptoms of Covid-19 and remained 
closed as a result of the Government restrictions. It said it reopened in July 2020 with a 
handful of staff who were unable to work from home. 
Hiscox declined Hs claim as the circumstances of the claim werent covered by the policy. H 
complained to Hiscox and brought its complaint to our service. 
While we were looking into things, Hiscox reviewed Hs claim following the Supreme Court 
judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Business Interruption Insurance test 
case but maintained their position that Hs claim wasnt covered by the policy. 
H thinks its claim should be covered by various parts of the policy which I will set out below. 
Financial losses
H said the policy defines damage as accidental physical loss or physical damage and the 
loss of use it suffered amounts to physical damage. H has referred to MDS Inc. v Factory 
Mutual Insurance Company (2020) and Tektrol v Hanover [2005] EWCA Civ 845 in support 
of why its claim should be paid. H also said that it had a reasonable expectation that its claim 
would be paid if it experienced a loss of use of its premises. 
Non-damage denial of access
H said that the presence of Covid-19 in the local area and the subsequent restrictions 
caused access to its premises to be prevented and hindered. It accepted that it may use its 
premises but said the policy also covered a hindrance in access. H thought the Government 
instructions for people to stay at home has caused a prevention or hindrance in access to its 
premises. H said there was no relevant exclusion and referred to the case of SAS Maison 
Rostang v AXA France IARD SA (22 May 2020) in support of its business being required to 
close and losing the use of its premises. H said that its employee having Covid-19 meant 
that there had been an incident in the locality. 
Public Authority
H said it had been unable to use its premises as a result of the Government restrictions due 
to Covid-19 which is an infectious and contagious human disease. It said the global nature of 
the pandemic should be sufficient to trigger cover as H couldnt use its premises. H said 
there had been a de facto closure of its premises and referred to the German Case No. 
66/20 in support of its claim under this clause. 
Sanitary arrangements
H said the ordinary meaning of sanitary was pertaining to conditions affecting health and its 
business had been impacted by health and sanitation issues. H said it was difficult to 
implement social distancing at its premises.
Customers
H said the closure of its clients businesses had caused it a loss. 
Other factors
H said it had held insurance with Hiscox for a number of years and had a reasonable 
expectation of having a successful claim if its business was interrupted. It said it had 
complied with the claim conditions and provided evidence in support of the claim. H said 
there are no relevant exclusions to exclude cover and if Hiscox wanted to exclude losses 
caused by a pandemic they should have added an exclusion to the policy. H said that where 
there is ambiguity in the policy it should be read in favour of the insured. 
Investigators assessment
Our Investigator looked into Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. A second investigator also 
didnt think that the policy provided cover but for different reasons. 
H still thought that the policy should provide cover and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
It also referred to the case of Corbin and King Ltd v AXA Insurance UK Plc [2022] EWHC 
409 (Comm) which found in favour of policyholders in relation to a non-damage denial of 
access (NDDA) clause. 
H said that it had been unable to use its business premises for registering candidates, 
carrying out training for the temporary workforce before they could access their placements, 
and staff training and inductions for its own employees. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
H has made a number of detailed points. I have considered them all but Im not going to 
address them all in this decision and will instead focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues to this complaint. This reflects the informal nature of our service. 
H has also referred to various periods of closure, but this decision only addresses the claim 
for the period of restrictions which commenced in March 2020. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Hs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out inthe policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Hiscox have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Hs claim.
Financial losses
Hs policy covers financial losses resulting solely and directly from an interruption to its 
business caused by:
insured damage to property
a. insured under any Property section of this policy, or
b. insured elsewhere, but not under this policy, provided the damage occurred while 
the property was contained in the insured premises.
Therefore, for cover to apply under this section, Hs business interruption would need to 
have been caused by insured damage to property. I dont think this would provide cover for 
Hs claim, because I dont think the business interruption was as a result of damage.
H has referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020).
However, I understand this has been overturned by the Court of Appeal. It has also referred 
to Tektrol v Hanover [2005] EWCA Civ 845. Ive considered this, but Ive also considered 
other cases which I think are more relevant to Hs claim, including TKC London Ltd v Allianz 
Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v British Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 
557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or
altered state to Hs property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible damage
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the cause of
potential damage.
Its possible that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present in Hs premises 
as it said its employee was unwell with Covid-19. However, the Governments guidance on 
cleaning in non-healthcare settings doesnt recommend any cleaning by a specialist. Theres 
no evidence of an excessive amount of SARS-CoV-2 on Hs property. And the presence of 
any particular virus doesnt automatically amount to damage. So, this clause within the policy 
doesnt provide cover.
Non-damage denial of access
This covers business interruption caused by:
an incident occurring during the period of insurance in the vicinity of the 
insured premises which prevents or hinders your access to the insured 
premises
I dont intend to make a finding on whether Hs access to the insured premises was hindered 
or prevented because I dont think that any restrictions were as a result of an incident. Ive 
considered Hs reference to of SAS Maison Rostang v AXA France IARD SA (22 May 2020) 
but I think the FCA test case is more relevant to Hs claim as this was considered by an 
English Court. This part of the judgment was not appealed to the Supreme Court and so is 
relevant case law.
The High Court said (at paras 404-405) about the need for an incident: this word should be given the same essential meaning as an event: 
something which happens at a particular time, at a particular place, in a particular 
way
...an incident is not synonymous with emergency or danger it is a misuse 
of language both generally and on the correct construction of the NDDA clause to 
describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident occurring within a 
one mile radius of the insured premises.
It may amount to a state of affairs but it istoo geographically dispersed, 
variegated, prolonged and non-specific to amount to an incident in any event, it 
is a misnomer to describe the presence of someone in the radius with the 
disease as an incident for the purposes of the clause.
Ive considered whether this position would be amended by the Courts position in Corbin 
and King Ltd v AXA Insurance UK Plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) but I dont believe it would 
be. Thats because the judge said at para 516:
The word Incident also is capable of lending a very distinct colour to a wording 
 as the telling argument recorded at [398] of the Divisional Court's judgment 
makes clear. Its significance is underpinned by the Divisional Court's conclusion 
at [404] that In our judgment, the FCAs entire case on the NDDA founders on 
the requirement for an incident.
I see no reason to depart from the findings of the High Court and I dont think an employee 
experiencing symptoms of Covid-19 means that there was an incident within the vicinity 
which prevented or hindered Hs access to its premises. Therefore, I think Hiscox have acted 
fairly and reasonably in finding that this clause doesnt cover Hs claim. 
Public Authority
This clause covers business interruption caused by:
    your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public    
authority during the period of insurance following:

b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an 
outbreak of which must be notified to the local authority
There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of Covid-19. 
Covid-19 is an infectious disease the outbreak of which must be notified to the local 
authority. Therefore, this extension would provide cover for a business that had been caused 
an inability to use their insured premises. However, the question is whether or not H suffered 
an inability to use its premises. 
The Health Protection (Coronavirus Restrictions) (Wales) Regulations 2020 set out which 
businesses were required to close. And, significantly, recruitment agencies were not on this 
list, so I dont think H was required to close by the Regulations. 
These regulations did impose other restrictions on people that would likely have had an 
impact on businesses that were able to remain open. For example, the restrictions on 
movement that required people to remain at home without a reasonable excuse. But the 
reasonable excuses included being able to travel to work where is it not reasonably practical 
for that person to work from where they are living. I dont think that the restrictions imposed always have to have the force of law. But I do 
consider that there must be a mandatory instruction that is given by a public authority. And I 
am not aware of any such instruction that imposed a relevant restriction on H. 
Additionally, the extension requires there to have been an inability to use the premises. Ive 
considered Hs point about the German Case No. 66/20 but the term inability to use in 
relation to policies with the same wording as Hs was considered as part of the FCA test 
case, so I think thats more relevant.
The Supreme Court judgment in that case said, at paragraph 129: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not 
cover all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority 
following an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the 
interruption is caused by the policyholders inability to use the business 
premises due to such restrictions. 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136:  an inability of use has to be established; not 
an impairment or hindrance in use. The court did also make it clear that it may be possible 
for a business to claim for losses that arose out of an inability to use its premises for a 
discrete part of its business activities. But I dont consider H has shown it was unable to use 
its premises for a discrete part of its business. H has referred to activities that it couldnt 
carry out, but it remained an option to H to work from its premises if it wasnt reasonably 
practical for its staff to work from where they lived.  
So, whilst I do not doubt H would have suffered a disruption to the normal operation of its 
business, the policy requires that there be an inability to use its premises. And I do not 
consider H suffered such an inability to use its premises. As such, I do not consider Hiscox 
acted inappropriately in declining Hs claim under this clause.
Sanitary arrangements
Point d of the same clause covers business interruption caused by:
    your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public    
authority during the period of insurance following:
    
defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements
H said that its premises closed because safe social distancing couldnt be maintained. For 
the reasons set out above, I dont think there was an inability for H to use its insured 
premises due to restrictions imposed by a public authority.
Also, to reach a fair and reasonable outcome Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
case of Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas Corporate Brokers Ltd & AXA 
Insurance Designated Activity Company [2021] IEHC 263 (Brushfield). This case took 
place in the Irish courts, but in the absence of a comparable English case, I feel it is useful to 
consider the points made in terms of considering how an English court might decide this 
point.
The judge said at paragraph 166, A defect inherently involves some element of
deficiency or fault. Ive noted Hs point that the defect is an inability to maintain social 
distancing. But Im not persuaded that the normal operation of a business can be called a 
defect, and certainly not a defect specific to Hs premises which led to its closure. Therefore, 
I think Hiscox acted fairly and reasonably when concluding that the interruption to Hs business wasnt due to its inability to use its premises as a result of a defect in its sanitary 
arrangements and therefore this clause doesnt cover the circumstances of Hs claim.
Customers
Hs policy covers business interruption caused by damage at the premises of any of your 
customers. The policy defines damage as, accidental physical loss or physical damage.
Therefore, for this clause to provide cover, the interruption to Hs business would need to be 
as a result of accidental physical loss or physical damage at the premises of Hs customers. 
For the reasons set out in the Financial losses section of my findings I havent seen 
anything to persuade me that the closure of Hs customers business meant there was 
physical loss or damage at their premises. Therefore, I think Hiscox have acted fairly and 
reasonably in finding that this clause doesnt cover the circumstances of Hs claim.
Other factors
Ive considered the other points H has raised but I dont think they make a difference to the 
outcome of its claim. I understand it might have had a reasonable expectation of being 
covered, have held the policy for a number of years and complied with claim conditions. But 
whether a claim is payable depends on the terms and conditions of the policy and in this 
case I dont think the policy covers the circumstances of Hs claim. 
While there isnt an exclusion for pandemics, there also isnt a clause that covers the claim. 
So I dont think the lack of an exclusion makes a difference. I also havent seen anything that 
would make me think the policy would be considered ambiguous. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome H was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Hiscox to pay Hs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman