DRN-2703837
The complaint
Miss M complains UK Credit Limited irresponsibly lent to her. Miss M says UK Credit did not 
complete reasonable and proportionate checks on her before approving her application. She 
says had it done so, UK Credit wouldve realised the loan was unaffordable to her.
What happened
Miss M was approved for a loan by UK Credit in August 2013. The capital amount of the loan 
was £4,5000, and it had a repayment term of 42 months. The monthly repayments were 
effectively £200 per month. Miss M stated the purpose of the loan was to consolidate some 
of her existing debts.
Miss M says at the time she applied for the loan she was struggling to meet her financial 
commitments. She says had UK Credit completed further checks it wouldve seen the loan 
was unaffordable to her. 
UK Credit says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks before it lent to Miss M. It 
says it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Miss M which demonstrated 
she had sufficient disposable income to meet the monthly repayments. UK Credit says it 
verified Miss Ms income via a copy of her payslip. UK Credit also completed a search of 
Miss Ms credit file. It says it used this information (as well as detailed telephone call) to 
calculate Miss Ms expenses. UK Credit says Miss M credit report didnt show any negative 
markers which wouldve prompted further checks. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Miss Ms complaint be upheld. She felt UK Credit had 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks before lending. And as these checks had 
shown the loan was likely affordable to Miss M; that UK Credits decision to lend was fair.
Miss M disagreed with this assessment. She maintained the markers on her credit file should 
have prevented UK Credit from lending to her. Miss M has provided a further copy of her 
credit file to support her complaint. As no agreement could be reached the matter has been 
passed to me to issue a final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ms complaint. Bearing in mind 
the dispute before me, I think that there are a number of overarching questions that I need to 
consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Miss Ms complaint. These are:
1. Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss M to satisfy 
itself that she was in a position repay the loan sustainably? 
o If so, did it make a fair decision? 
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss M would have been able to do so? 
2. Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss M to satisfy itself that 
she was in a position repay the loan sustainably?
The regulations which applied at the time, required UK Credit to carry out an assessment on 
whether Miss M could repay any loan in sustainable way. These checks are referred to as an 
affordability assessment or an affordability check.
This means UK Credit needed to consider if any repayments Miss M would be required to 
make would cause her any financial difficulties or have any adverse consequences on her 
finances. The checks also needed to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the 
loan which was being approved.
The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to complete for them to be 
reasonable and proportionate. But these checks needed to be proportionate to the amount of 
credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total 
length of the term. 
It is also not sufficient for UK Credit to just complete proportionate checks. It also needs to 
consider the information it is provided with and make a fair lending decision.
Miss M says UK Credits checks werent proportionate. She says the checks did not consider 
the full extent of her financial circumstances; and did not verify her finances thoroughly 
enough.
UK Credit disagrees and says the checks were proportionate. UK Credit completed a detail 
income and expenditure assessment on Miss M; and searched her credit file. UK Credit says 
it also verified Miss Ms income via asking her to provide copies of her payslips. 
The affordability assessment showed Miss M was earning approximately £1,500. Miss M 
declared she was living with her partner and didnt have any dependents. UK Credit also 
gathered details of Miss Ms non-credit expenses such as food and transport costs.
The credit file search showed Miss M had a number of active forms of credit including an 
unsecured loan, credit card, and mail order account. UK Credit says the credit file showed 
Miss M was maintaining her credit reasonably well. It also says it added these expenses to 
Miss Ms declared outgoings, and whilst noting the loan was for debt consolidation, say the 
checks showed the loan was affordable to her. It says these checks combined were 
proportionate.
Ive carefully considered this argument, but in this instance, I disagree with it. As UK Credit is 
aware there is a need for it consider the information it was presented with. In this instance 
Miss Ms credit file showed she had an existing unsecured loan  which in this in case was a 
further guarantor loan case from a different provider. This loan highlights the potential need 
for Miss M to have the security of a guarantor previously.
The credit file also showed Miss M had had defaults in the recent past; with arrears having 
been built up. Whilst defaults dont necessarily mean UK Credit shouldnt have lent to Miss 
M outright; Im satisfied that it does show she mayve had issues managing her credit 
commitments in the past. And as such; Im persuaded further checks over Miss Ms outgoing 
would be warranted in this instance.It follows therefore that I dont think UK Credit completed proportionate checks in this 
instance.
Would further checks have shown Miss M was in a position to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
Ive explained above why Im persuaded further checks shouldve been completed; and in 
particular further checks to verify Miss Ms outgoings. UK Credit couldve done this in a 
number of ways such as asking for copies of bills or bank statements.
Miss M hasnt been able to provide us copies of her bank statements but has provided us 
with her different providers credit file. Miss M says the loan was unaffordable to her and the 
credit file she has provided demonstrates this. 
Ive carefully considered Miss Ms argument, but I disagree there is sufficient information to 
show this loan was unaffordable to her at the time of the application. Miss Ms credit report 
shows the arrears that she had faced; as well as the defaults she had recorded. However, 
this isnt necessarily contradictory to the information which UK Credit had at the time. 
Importantly, I dont think the credit report is sufficient to say the loan was more than likely 
unaffordable to Miss M at that time. Afterall the expenditure assessment which UK Credit 
completed (which included verified income) demonstrated that even with the known credit 
commitments that the loan was affordable. And in any absence of evidence to the contrary 
Im not persuaded it is enough to say the loan was unaffordable at the time.
Miss M says she had also recently been in a debt management plan; and as such UK Credit 
shouldnt have lent to her. She says this evidence by the credit file she has provided to us. 
Ive considered this argument too, but I dont think this wouldve prevented UK Credit from 
lending to her or demonstrate that the current loan was unaffordable to her. I say this 
because the debt management plan wasnt active at the time (and it didnt show up on any 
checks that UK Credit actually performed). If UK Credit did ask for further information, as Im 
persuaded it shouldve, Im not persuaded it wouldve asked for a further credit report. It is 
much more likely that it wouldve asked for bills or bank statements. And considering I dont 
have sight of those, Im unable to say what it wouldve shown. I also note Miss M says the 
debt management plan wasnt active at that time; and therefore, it is possible further checks 
wouldnt have shown it; and I cant see she declared it to UK Credit either. So, taking that 
into account, Im not satisfied this argument wouldve meant UK Credit shouldnt have lent.
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Ive not seen ay information which suggest UK Credit acted unfairly or unreasonably in any 
other way; and on that basis I make no further finding. 
My final decision
My final decision I that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman