DRN-1571209
 
The complaint
Miss P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has failed to pay her an interest rate shown 
on its website, and says she isnt eligible for notice accounts advertised there. 
What happened
Miss P had a reserve account. She said Barclays website says those now have an interest 
rate of 0.35% but she only got 0.25%. And she wanted to be able to access notice accounts 
which are also advertised on Barclays' website. 
Barclays said that the advertised rate of 0.35%, and the notice accounts Miss P wanted, 
were only available to customers whose accounts were held outside of the UK. And Miss Ps 
account was held in London. Barclays said that legally, the wording was correct. But it 
accepted that the website could have been clearer. So it said it would look into that. But it 
had repeatedly notified Miss P of the interest rate on her account. It didnt think it had to pay 
her for missed interest. It offered her £25 to apologise for the website not being immediately 
clear. 
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld, but not in the way Miss P 
proposed. He said she was never entitled to the higher interest rate. So he didnt think that 
Barclays had to pay that. But he thought that £25 wasnt quite enough to make up for the 
frustration this had caused her, so he said Barclays should pay £50 in total.
Miss P said she wouldve been much better off if shed been able to put her money into one 
of the notice accounts that Barclays had also advertised. She didnt think £25 was enough to 
make up for missing out on that. Our investigator discussed this with Barclays, and it 
confirmed that Miss P wasnt eligible for these accounts. So he didnt change his mind. 
Miss P wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has two websites, one of these is primarily aimed at its UK customers and the other 
is aimed at its offshore customers, whose accounts are managed in the Isle of Man or 
Jersey. Barclays has told us that Miss P was looking at the Barclays international website, 
when she saw that reserve accounts were receiving a higher interest rate than she was 
currently getting. She also saw notice accounts that she wouldve liked to open. The interest 
rate advertised, and the notice account advertised, were for international customers only. 
Miss P lives overseas, but her accounts are managed in London. So shes not a customer of 
Barclays in Jersey or the Isle of Man. Neither the interest rate, nor the notice accounts, were 
available to her. Shes complained, saying she should be able to access these. I dont think that Barclays has to make the same products available to its UK and its 
international customers. So I dont think it has to give Miss P the higher interest rate, or the 
notice accounts, that she would like. 
Barclays has said that each of the accounts does say whos entitled to access it. But it thinks 
that information couldve been more clearly and easily available to Miss P. So its offered 
£25 in compensation. Our investigator thought that £50 was a more reasonable amount for 
the disappointment Miss P felt, and Barclays has agreed to pay that. 
Its not clear to me whether Barclays has yet paid the £25 it offered. So Ill award £50 now, 
and allow Barclays to count towards that any payment it has already made for this complaint. 
I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I know Miss P will be 
disappointed, but I dont think Barclays has to do more than that.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Miss P a total of £50 in 
compensation for this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC can count towards that sum any 
amount it has already paid Miss P for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman