DRN-3102300
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) unfairly added an exclusion to 
her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Ps dog needed vet treatment for an issue with his hind leg. So, Mrs P made a claim 
under her pet insurance policy for the treatment. However, when Pinnacle investigated the 
claim it checked the dogs medical history and found that hed previously had issues with his 
hind legs, which hadnt been declared when Mrs P took out the policy. So, Pinnacle applied 
a retrospective exclusion for hind leg conditions and declined the claim.
When Mrs P complained, Pinnacle said it had correctly added the exclusion because it 
wouldnt have provided cover for that condition had it known about the medical history. It 
said that as the claim fell under the exclusion, it had been correctly declined.
So, Mrs P complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
it was reasonable for Pinnacle to apply a retrospective exclusion and to decline the claim. 
She said Pinnacles underwriting criteria showed it would have applied the hind leg exclusion 
had the medical history been declared when the policy was taken out.
As Mrs P didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Pinnacle has said that if Mrs P had told it about her dogs previous hind leg issues  it would 
have excluded cover for his hind legs when she took out the policy. As it only became aware 
of the previous hind leg issues when Mrs P made a claim, Pinnacle applied the exclusion 
retrospectively and declined the claim. So, Ive considered whether that was reasonable.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) requires 
consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out an 
insurance policy. Each period of insurance is a new contract and a policyholder must also 
take reasonable care not to misrepresent at each renewal. Where a policyholder hasnt 
taken reasonable care, what an insurer can do under CIDRA will depend on whether the 
qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless.
When Mrs P made a claim for her dogs hind leg issue, Pinnacle checked the dogs medical 
records and this showed two previous issues with his hind legs. Both were from before the 
policy was taken out. One was about two years earlier and the other in the months before 
the policy started.
Pinnacle has provided evidence of what Mrs P was asked when she took out the policy. This 
included the question Has your pet shown any sign or symptoms of any injury or illness or 
been unwell, either now or at any time in the past?. Mrs P answered no to this question. 
The policy documents also said:
Important  Please Read
At application you confirmed that [the dog] has not had any sign or symptom of injury or 
illness, or been unwell, either now or at any time in the past.
If this changes before the actual start date please contact us  so that we can review your 
policy and let you know as soon as possible if there are any conditions for which [the dog] 
will not be covered.
Based on that, I think Mrs P was asked a clear question when she first took out the policy. 
The policy documents also explained what Mrs P had confirmed and that she should get in 
touch with Pinnacle if this was incorrect. However, Mrs Ps dog had medical treatment before 
the policy was taken out, which Ive no reason to think she was unaware of. So, I think Mrs P 
made a qualifying misrepresentation when she took out the policy because she didnt tell 
Pinnacle about the previous issues. Pinnacle has said it thought the misrepresentation was 
careless, which I think was reasonable in the circumstances.
When a policyholder makes a qualifying misrepresentation that is careless, CIDRA says an 
insurer can carry out certain remedies. These allow the insurer to treat the policy in the way 
it would have done if it had been given the correct information. In this instance, Pinnacle has 
said it would have applied an exclusion from the outset had it known about the previous hind 
leg issues. Ive looked at Pinnacles underwriting guidelines and this showed it would have 
added this exclusion when the policy was first taken out if it had been aware of the previous 
medical issues. So, I think it was reasonable for it to add the exclusion to the policy. Based 
on what Ive seen the exclusion would still have applied at the time Mrs P made the claim 
under the policy, so I also think it was reasonable for Pinnacle to decline the claim.
Im also aware that Mrs Ps vet said the more recent hind leg issue wasnt related to the 
previous issues. But that wasnt why Pinnacle declined the claim. It was because Pinnacle 
added an exclusion to the policy because of the previous hind leg issues. This meant there 
was no cover for hind leg issues at the time Mrs P made the claim, regardless of whether it 
was a one-off or ongoing issue.
Mrs P was also concerned by some of the communication from Pinnacle, as she seemed to 
get information about her claim and changes to the policy terms in a confusing order. 
Pinnacle also didnt reply promptly to concerns raised by Mrs P and the vet. Pinnacle 
apologised and said it would provide feedback to the relevant department. I think that was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Pinnacle to do 
anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman