DRN-4214394
Complaint
Mr H has complained about loans Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) provided to him. 
He says the loans were unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided to him in the first 
place.
Background
Bamboo provided Mr H with a first loan for £1,000.00 in August 2018. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 11 monthly instalments of £115.96 and a final instalment of £116.02. This loan 
was settled early in October 2018.
In July 2019, Mr H was provided with a second loan for £1,000.00. This loan also had a 12-
month term with 11 monthly repayments of £115.96 and a final instalment of £116.02. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr H and Bamboo had told us. And he thought that 
Bamboo hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. So he didnt recommend that 
Mr Hs complaint be upheld. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Bamboo needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Bamboo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr H 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Bamboo provided Mr H with two loans for £1,000.00 in August 2018 and July 2019. These 
loans were due to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments. Bamboo says it agreed to Mr Hs 
applications after he provided details of his monthly income and some information on his 
expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out. 
And all of this information showed Mr H could comfortably afford to make the repayments he 
was committing to. On the other hand, Mr H has said the loans were unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr H and Bamboo have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Bamboo has provided a record of the results of its credit 
searches. Bamboo searches appear to show that Mr H did have some existing debts but that 
his commitments at the time were relatively well maintained. Crucially, according to the 
credit searches, Mr Hs debt total at the time of the applications was low in comparison to his 
income. 
Ive also kept in mind that Bamboo provided a second loan to Mr H and that sometimes 
repeat borrowing in itself can be an indication of difficulty. But there was a nine month break 
between loan 1 being settled and loan 2 being provided. And the amount being borrowed for 
loan 2 wasnt higher either. 
So while the pattern of lending here has seen me take a closer look at the individual 
applications, Im satisfied that it wasnt immediately obvious that Mr H might have taken loan 
2 because of the effect loan 1 might have left on his finances. And there isnt anything else 
obvious in these applications which clearly demonstrates Mr H couldnt have afforded the 
loans either. 
I accept that Mr Hs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Bamboo obtained. For example, Mr H says that 
he was on a reduced income as a result of being in an accident when he applied for loan 2.  
Im sorry to hear that Mr H has found repaying his loans difficult.
But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Mr H appears to have confirmed that he 
was in employment at the time. And given the circumstances here, and the lack of anything 
to call what Mr H had said into question, Im satisfied that Bamboo was reasonably entitled 
to lend to Mr H. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Bamboo did anything wrong when deciding to lend to  
Mr H - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. And the second loan was provided in 
circumstances where Mr Hs indebtedness didnt appear to be increasing unsustainably. 
So overall I dont think that Bamboo treated Mr H unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr H. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman