DRN-4006001
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A complain about delays by QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) in the handling of their 
claim on their home insurance policy and about the quality of repairs it carried out.
QIC is the underwriter of Mr A and Mrs As policy, so its their insurer. Part of Mr A and Mrs 
As complaint concerns the actions of QICs agents. As QIC has accepted its accountable
for the actions of its agents, in my decision any reference to QIC includes its agents.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs A made a claim on their home insurance policy with QIC for storm damage to
their main roof and to their garage roof. QIC initially turned down Mr A and Mrs As claim for 
storm damage to their main roof (although I understand from Mrs A that it later accepted this 
claim). But, separately, QIC accepted their claim for damage to the garage roof as accidental 
damage. I understand this was because tiles from the main roof had fallen onto the garage 
roof, causing damage.
Mr A and Mrs A say it took QIC six months to repair the garage roof. They say the workmen
who took off the old roof sheets from the roof structure levered themselves against the 
structure beams to remove them, which bent the beams. They say having new roof sheets
fixed to the bent beams means they now have a wonky roof, which looks horrendous.
Mr A and Mrs A want QIC to replace the beams.
When Mr A and Mrs A complained to QIC about the repairs, it didnt uphold their complaint.
It said the roof repair looked incorrect because of a latent defect with the roof beams. And
QIC said this was excluded under the terms of Mr A and Mrs As policy. But QIC offered (and
I believe has paid) Mr A and Mrs A £200 in compensation for three months of avoidable
delays in dealing with their claim.
When Mr A and Mrs A brought their complaint to us, the investigator who looked at it didnt
uphold it. He said that, based on the evidence, he didnt think QIC should replace the 
beams. And he thought the compensation QIC had offered Mr A and Mrs A fairly recognised
the distress and inconvenience it had caused them. 
Mr A and Mrs A disagreed with our investigators findings. They said theyve been left with a 
poorly fitting roof that looks like an eyesore and had to wait six months for the repair with 
many stresses and tensions on the way. 
In my provisional decision of 23 February 2023, I explained why I didnt think QIC had 
treated Mr A and Mrs A fairly. Both Mr A and Mrs A and QIC have accepted my provisional 
decision, which has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I dont think QIC has treated Mr A and   
Mrs A fairly and reasonably. Heres what I said:
Turning first to the issue of the repair to the garage roof. As Ive mentioned, Mr A and Mrs A
say QICs workmen bent the beams when repairing it. From what Mr A and Mrs A say, I
know this is their firm and genuine opinion. But Mr A and Mrs A havent given us any expert
evidence to support that opinion.
QIC has a different opinion. It says theres a latent defect in the roof. Under the terms of
Mr A and Mrs As policy, a latent defect is a fault which exists but which only causes a
problem at a later stage. QIC says its surveyor looked at two photos of the roof before the
repairs were carried out and these showed the roof sheets, at ridge level, already had gaps
between the ridge and roof sheets. The surveyor says the gaps in the new roof appear to
mimic these points on the original roof and so should be considered a latent defect. But
QICs surveyors opinion is based, it seems, on a desk-top assessment of two pre-repair
photos of the external roof structure. So far, Ive seen no evidence to suggest QIC has
instructed an expert to carry out a detailed on-site assessment of the whole roof structure,
including, in particular, the bent internal roof beams.
When an insurer chooses to settle a claim by repair, we expect it to indemnify the consumer
by carrying out an effective and lasting repair. To be effective, the repair must fully put right
the damage. And to be lasting, it must do so for an appropriate amount of time. And
sometimes, when the only way to carry out an effective and lasting repair to the insured
damage (that is, damage the insurer will cover) is to carry out work on uninsured damage
(that is, damage the insurer doesnt cover), we think its fair and reasonable to direct an
insurer to do that.
I think both Mr A and Mrs A and QIC agree the damage to the garage roof (that is, the
damage QIC is covering under Mr A and Mrs As policy) didnt cause the problem with the
beams. But, in essence, what Mr A and Mrs A are saying is that, for there to be an effective
and lasting repair to their damaged garage roof, QIC should also carry out work on the
uninsured damage. Put simply, they say QIC should replace the beams.
Before we direct an insurer to carry out uninsured work, however, we must first be satisfied
that the need to carry it out has arisen as a direct result of the insured damage. And then we
must be satisfied the uninsured work is genuinely necessary for an effective and lasting
repair to the insured work.
The evidence in this complaint is limited. Its mostly confined to pre- and post-repair photos
of the outside garage roof. Both parties dispute what has caused the beams to bend and
there are no expert reports based on on-site assessments to say what has caused the
problem.
We are an evidence-based service. But, as Ive highlighted above, the evidence Ive got so
far on this issue isnt enough for me to be able to make a decision about whether its fair and 
reasonable to direct QIC to replace the beams so as to settle Mr A and Mrs As claim.
Its unfortunate but, in these circumstances, I think the best I can do to achieve a reasonably
fair outcome is to direct QIC to instruct an expert to carry out an on-site inspection of Mr A
and Mrs As garage roof and its supporting internal structure and to provide QIC with a report
with his or her assessment of what has caused the roof beams to bend. This should then
enable QIC to make an informed decision about how to progress the settlement of Mr A and
Mrs As claim fairly and reasonably.
It is, of course, open to Mr A and Mrs A to get their own experts opinion. If they were to dothis, I would expect QIC to take their experts report into account when deciding how to
progress their claim. And if Mr A and Mrs A were unhappy with how QIC treats them
following the provision of expert(s) reports, they can, of course, bring a new complaint.
As a final point on this issue of repair to the garage roof, it is also open to QIC to reconsider
its position and offer to replace the roof beams, as Mr A and Mrs A have requested. I think
this would be a reasonably quick and easy way to resolve the complaint. But, for the reasons
Ive given above in relation to lack of evidence, based on what Ive seen so far, this isnt
something I can fairly direct QIC to do.
Turning next to the issue of compensation. Mr A and Mrs A are unhappy with the length of
time QIC took to carry out the garage roof repair. QIC has accepted there was an avoidable
delay in dealing with the claim of around three months. For this, I believe it has paid Mr A
and Mrs A £200 in compensation.
From what Mr A and Mrs A have told us, they had to live with a big hole in their garage roof
for more than six months while waiting for it to be fixed and this was following many
frustrating calls to chase the repairs up. So I can see theyve experienced more than the
levels of frustration and annoyance Id reasonably expect from day-to-day life. This has been
inconvenient and stressful for Mr A and Mrs A and is clearly not what they expected to
happen when they made their claim. In these circumstances, and based on what Ive seen
so far, I think the compensation of £200 QIC has offered (and I believe paid) Mr A and Mrs A
is fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience it has caused them.
As Ive mentioned, both Mr A and Mrs A and QIC have accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr A and Mrs A have also confirmed QIC has paid them £200 in compensation for its delay 
in dealing with their garage roof claim. 
In addition, Mrs A has also asked me to clarify in my final decision that the expert QIC 
appoints to carry out the on-site inspection of the garage roof should be independent of QIC 
 that is, not part of its company structure. Im happy to make that clarification.
Finally, Mr A and Mrs A have told us there were delays by QIC in accepting their claim for 
storm damage to their main roof. The delays by QIC that Ive looked at in this complaint are 
those that relate specifically to the repair of the damaged garage roof, which QIC accepted 
as accidental damage. If Mr A and Mrs A wish to complain about delays by QIC in accepting 
their storm damage claim for their main roof, they will need to raise these with QIC in the first 
instance. And if theyre unhappy with QICs response, they can bring a new complaint to us.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional decision (which now form part of this final 
decision), I dont think QIC Europe Ltd has treated Mr A and Mrs A fairly. So I direct QIC 
Europe Ltd to obtain an independent experts report, based on an on-site assessment, into 
the cause of the problem with Mr A and Mrs As garage roof beams. This is so QIC Europe 
Ltd can make an informed decision about how to settle Mr A and Mrs As repair claim fairly 
and reasonably.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman