DRN-2150932
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Santander UK Plc was unfair when it refused to switch her mortgage to 
interest only payments while she sold her house.
What happened
Mrs P has a repayment mortgage with Santander. Her circumstances changed and she 
couldnt afford to maintain monthly payments. In June 2019 she asked Santander to switch 
her mortgage to interest only payments while she sold her house or found new work. 
Santander declined, saying it didnt offer short-term switches to interest only and Mrs P didnt 
meet criteria for a long-term change to interest only payments. Mrs P says this was unfair as 
she could afford monthly interest only payments and had a viable repayment strategy in that 
her property was for sale.
Santander offered a payment plan to Mrs P, but she declined this as she didnt want to be in 
arrears, or for adverse information to be recorded on her credit file. She says her husband 
has taken out unaffordable debt to meet the monthly payments, and this has affected their 
health and wellbeing. Mrs P says shes had to withdraw additional money from her pension 
each month while her complaint has been ongoing, potentially resulting in pension poverty.
Mrs P says Santander asked unnecessary questions and put her on hold during calls, 
making her feel like a process instead of a customer. She says it didnt call her to discuss 
her complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Mrs P 
didnt meet Santanders criteria for a permanent change to interest only payments. The 
investigator said Santander had to assess what Mrs P could afford and what concessions it 
could offer. It offered a payment arrangement. The investigator said if Santander had offered 
a short-term switch to interest only this would also have resulted in arrears being reported on 
Mrs Ps credit file  which she didnt want. So the outcome would not have been different. 
Mrs P didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P was struggling to meet her contractual monthly repayments and contacted Santander. 
Santander needed to respond fairly. Id expect it to discuss Mrs Ps circumstances with her 
and consider how it can support her. 
Mrs P says Santander didnt try to understand her needs. I dont think thats fair. Santander 
asked Mrs P for information so it could understand her circumstances. The team that dealt 
with Mrs Ps request also deals with people whose mortgages are in arrears. I dont think this 
was intended to upset Mrs P or suggest she wasnt a valued customer. This is the team 
within Santander that helps customers, like Mrs P, who are having difficulty meeting their 
mortgage payments. 
Mrs P told Santander that due to a change of circumstances she had a short-term problem in 
meeting mortgage payments while she sold the property. Having considered the information 
Mrs P provided, Santander offered a concession. It said it would accept lower monthly 
payments for a period of time. 
I think this was fair. It took account of Mrs Ps need for time to sell the property without 
struggling to make payments or worrying about enforcement action. However, the shortfall 
due to the lower payments would have become agreed arrears, and Mrs P was worried 
about this.
I dont think Mrs P would have been in a better situation if Santander had offered a 
temporary switch to interest only payments  the shortfall in the payments would have 
become arrears and would have been reported to the credit reference agencies in the same 
way. And I dont think Santander had to offer this. Santander assessed what monthly 
payments were affordable for Mrs P, which was enough to cover interest and an amount 
towards repaying the capital. This meant her arrears didnt increase as much as would have 
been the case with interest only payments. 
The effect on Mrs Ps mortgage account and credit file would have been different if 
Santander had agreed to change her mortgage to interest only payments on a permanent 
basis. But this would require a variation to her mortgage contract and Santander has to 
follow the rules of mortgage regulation before agreeing to do this. 
The regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA  sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest only mortgages, repayment strategy 
before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages. This doesnt apply to a temporary 
concession to help a customer in financial difficulties but would apply to a permanent change 
to interest only payments.
There are exceptions to this for mortgages taken out before 2014, as Mrs Ps was. In 
summary, Santander could agree to switch the mortgage to interest only payments without 
an assessment of affordability or repayment strategy if its in Mrs Ps best interests. 
I should say though that Id still consider it fair for Santander to consider affordability and 
how the capital would be repaid when considering whether a switch to interest only 
payments would be in Mrs Ps best interests. 
Mrs P doesnt have means to repay the mortgage at the end of the term if she switches to 
interest only payments, other than to sell the property. Mrs P says her property is on the 
market for sale and she has equity in the property. This might not be the case in the future. 
And in the meantime shell have paid more interest.
I think its important to note that Mrs P asked for support on a temporary basis  while she 
sold the property. After reviewing her income and expenditure, Santander said monthly 
payments of interest and some capital were affordable. By making some capital repayments, 
Mrs P is reducing the amount she owes. If she does find work shell be able to resume 
contractual monthly payments and, hopefully, payments towards her arrears.
I dont think its clearly in Mrs Ps best interests to require Santander to switch her mortgage 
to interest only payments on a permanent basis. The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issued principles for the reporting of arrears to 
credit reference agencies. This requires lenders to report data that is fair, accurate, 
consistent, complete and up to date. Lenders have to report missed payments and arrears. 
ICO says the purpose of reporting arrears is to indicate at the earliest opportunity that a 
customer is showing signs of potential financial difficulty. 
Mrs P says it will be more difficult for her to find work if her account is in arrears, and this is 
recorded on her credit report. Its for a potential employer to decide what checks to make, 
and what it considers significant for the role applied for. Given Santanders obligation to 
report information to the credit reference agencies, and the purpose behind this, I dont think 
its fair to require Santander to make changes to Mrs Ps mortgage, which arent clearly in 
her best interests, with the aim of avoiding a potential employer being aware of her financial 
difficulties.
What happens now?
Santander says Mrs P has had payment deferrals due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The 
regulator issued guidance about payment deferrals, including what could fairly be reported to 
the credit reference agencies. The current guidance is in place to the end of October 2020. 
The regulator has said that it expects lenders to get in contact with customers about 
resuming payments, and if they will continue to struggle to meet payments, to engage with 
them about their options and offer an appropriate concession. 
The concession Santander previously offered to Mrs P might not still be appropriate  and of 
course Mrs P will have to make up the payments shes deferred. Id expect Santander to 
treat Mrs P fairly and take the current and any future guidance issued by the regulator into 
account. I appreciate though, that until she finds work or sells her house, its likely Mrs P will 
have to make a difficult choice between struggling to make payments, or agreeing a 
concession that would result in arrears. I understand her difficulty, but I think Santander 
responded fairly when she told it about her financial difficulties. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require Santander to switch her mortgage to interest only payments. 
Mrs P is also unhappy about the way Santander dealt with her complaint. As complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity, I cant look into that here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman