DRN-3673646
The complaint
Miss B and Mr R complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) have treated them unfairly 
in relation to a flood claim made under their home insurance.
As Miss B has led this complaint with this Service, Ill mainly refer to her. Any reference to 
Aviva includes respective agents, representatives or appointed contractors.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and has been detailed 
extensively elsewhere, so Ive summarised events.
In August 2020 Miss Bs home suffered flood damage. She contacted Aviva to make 
a claim. It completed strip out and drying works and prepared a schedule of repairs 
due to complete in December 2020. She was moved into hotel accommodation until 
January 2021 when she returned home.
Remedial works continued past this time. Miss B raised several complaints, including 
the quality of works and a failure to follow health and safety guidelines.
In June 2021 Miss Bs home was flooded again. Aviva reviewed the damage and 
established the necessary drying steps.
Miss B objected to Avivas chosen agent (who had completed previous works), 
saying they had failed to wear appropriate PPE, left her home unsecure, and left the 
property in a poor condition.
The complaint came to this Service and our Investigator upheld it. He found:
oAvivas agents failed to establish if a ceiling contained asbestos before cutting 
it. He said the agents also failed to wear PPE or sanitise their hands while 
working. While the ceiling was since discovered to be safe, and Miss B did 
not contract Covid-19, both of these instances caused her avoidable distress.
oAvivas agents left Miss Bs property unsecure through failing to lock a back 
gate and leaving a key safe combination unscrambled. 
oAviva had caused significant avoidable delays, and its agents had failed to 
minimise the impact of repairs on other parts of the home, works were not 
effective and lasting as several items had to be redone with some issues still 
outstanding. But he didnt believe there was evidence of discrimination.
oThe impact of Avivas actions was significant on Miss Bs wellbeing, and the 
issues had avoidably led her having to spend extensive time cleaning, as well 
as impacting her everyday life.
The Investigator directed Aviva to provide a written apology, pay £750 in 
compensation, and progress the claim without delay.
Aviva didnt respond. Miss B disagreed, providing a detailed account of the impact on 
her life. Including fear of homelessness, returning to her home without cooking or 
laundry facilities, and sharing a bathroom with tradespeople, her home being full of 
dust, Avivas staff had intimidated her and caused her extensive stress.
The Investigator looked again but didnt change his mind. And the complaint was 
passed to me. Ive included an extract of my provisional decision below.
Miss Bs submissions to this Service span many pages. Within this decision I wont be 
responding in similar detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of the 
informal nature of this Service.
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I will only 
comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. That may also 
mean I dont comment on everything Miss B has said but I can confirm I have read and 
considered everything said by all parties.
This complaint concerns a claim that is still ongoing. I have considered events that have 
taken place up until October 2021 within this decision. And in doing so, Ive kept in mind 
Avivas obligation to handle insurance claims promptly and fairly.
Outstanding issues
Many of the snagging issues and contents items that were considered beyond economic 
repair were still ongoing at the point this complaint was considered by this Service. So, I will 
not detail each of them within this decision and instead leave this matter for Aviva to 
conclude with Miss B and Mr R. And should these matters not be resolved to their 
satisfaction, their complaint will need to be addressed by Aviva in the first instance. 
However, I have considered its handling of these issues overall and whether it has caused 
avoidable delays and distress and inconvenience.
The claim
Miss B and Mr R have explained at length the impact this experience has had on them. Ive 
thought carefully about their submissions and Im sympathetic to the trauma of losing so 
many precious and irreplaceable items and seeing their property subject to such damage.
In a claim of this nature, there will be a degree of inevitable frustration and upheaval for a 
policyholder. When considering a complaint like this, I will direct an insurer to pay 
compensation where I believe it has made a mistake, and that mistake has caused 
avoidable or unnecessary delays and/or distress and inconvenience. So thats what Ive 
thought about here.
Aviva has accepted that some of its works were poor and required rework beyond usual 
snagging issues. It has also acknowledged that a claim of this nature would normally take 
about six to nine months, and it was not acceptable that this matter had been ongoing since 
August 2020. It has described its own staff as defensive and unprofessional in places and 
that Miss B and Mr R did not get the care needed in this case. As well as other failings 
related to Covid-19 PPE and not carrying out asbestos testing.
Given Avivas admissions, I see no reason to go over each of these points in detail. Suffice 
to say its clear to me Aviva has not met its obligation to handle this claim promptly and fairly. 
And in turn I dont doubt that Avivas actions have exacerbated the distress and 
inconvenience Miss B and Mr R wouldve otherwise suffered.
Ive also considered the impact of many of Avivas mistakes here thankfully did not lead to 
more serious consequences. For instance, I understand the lack of PPE did not lead to Miss 
B or Mr R contracting Covid-19. The asbestos testing came back negative so did not place 
them at risk. And Avivas agents leaving gates unlocked etc. did not lead to any break-ins or related theft at the property. But I can see how each of these mistakes wouldve caused Miss 
B and Mr R a large degree of avoidable distress in the circumstances.
Miss B has described medical conditions and poor health shes experienced across this 
time. While Ive been given no direct medical evidence linking the events, I can understand 
how the mistakes on Avivas part wouldve increased her stress levels. Ive also thought 
about the unnecessary time that Miss B has spent cleaning the property and having to raise 
concerns to Aviva to move things forward.
Miss B has said some of Avivas agents actions were discriminatory in nature and made 
reference to relevant equality legislation. As Ive outlined above, Ive taken into account all 
the relevant law when deciding this complaint and Ive considered the impact of Avivas 
mistakes on them directly based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances.
It seems to me that Avivas actions, particularly to Miss B, were not considerate to her 
circumstances. However, if Miss B and Mr R would like a specific decision on whether Aviva 
has breached this Act, they will need to take this matter to court as it will be best placed to 
consider this.
I explained I was minded to award a compensatory sum of £1,500 in the circumstances. And 
as Aviva takes the remaining matters forward, that it should do so promptly and fairly. I also 
asked it to provide a written apology to Miss B and Mr R. 
I gave both parties until 19 August 2022 to respond. Since then, neither party has provided 
anything new for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive been given no new information to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision. And Im upholding this complaint for those same reasons already given.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following.
Pay Miss B and Mr R £1,500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
has caused them.
Send a written apology to Miss B and Mr R for the poor handling and the impact it 
has caused them over the life of this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman