DRN-3980101
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the settlement offered by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited  
trading as More Th>n (RSA) following a claim he made under his home insurance policy. 
He has also complained about the service he received.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. In 
summary Mr O made a claim under his policy when a car was driven into his front wall. He 
was unhappy with RSAs response to his claim.
Our investigator found that the settlement offered by RSA was fair. Mr O appealed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Ive fully reviewed the complete file.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, 
amongst other things, the law; the terms of the insurance contract; and the available 
evidence, to decide whether I think RSA handled Mr Os claim fairly.
RSA admitted Mr Os claim under the policy, which provides that it will only pay for 
the for the damaged part of a building. It says that the evidence shows the wall was 
in poor condition before the incident. That said, it needs to achieve an effective and 
lasting repair. Accordingly Ive carefully considered all the evidence in order to 
ascertain if this standard can be met by RSAs proposal. 
The report RSA commissioned by its surveyor (Ill call B) showed visible cracking on 
the face of the wall, with no lateral displacement. RSA proposed removing and 
replacing these bricks. To achieve the best possible match it suggested either using 
reclaimed bricks or tinting the bricks. B suggested reclaimed bricks are widely 
available and RSA is willing to pay for these. I note from Mr Os builders quote that 
reclaimed bricks are more expensive. I think its reasonable that they are sourced 
and used so that a match can be achieved. Mr O was concerned any mis-match 
would affect the value of his property. I do understand his concern. However it seems 
that it will be possible to repair the wall without their being a noticeable mis-match. 
But in any event a loss in value resulting from repairs is excluded from Mr Os policy.
I have not disregarded Mr Os builders evidence who feels that this would be a 
patch up job and would not be a like for like repair. B has confirmed that the patch 
repair would be a lasting repair and wouldnt affect the integrity of the wall. I have 
considered the quotes that Mr O has provided but Im not persuaded on the evidence 
I have seen that in order to repair the wall it is necessary to demolish it completely 
and build a new wall. RSA is liable for the damaged section of the wall and Im 
satisfied that its proposal to take down and re-build the damaged part of the wall only 
is reasonable in the circumstances.
Because of the passage of time B has submitted a new Scope of Works. It says that 
the Scope of Works is an assessment of work required to restore Mr Os wall back to 
its pre-loss condition. I note that Mr O is unhappy with the Scope and feels it has 
been underestimated to calculate a cash settlement using preferential rates which 
would not fully indemnify him. Im not persuaded that is correct. However his policy 
provides Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but 
instead you request and we agree to pay a cash settlement, then the amount will not 
normally exceed what we would have paid our preferred supplier. RSA has agreed 
to make a cash settlement but if Mr O would prefer it can instead carry out the repair. 
Mr O should advise RSA how he wishes to proceed.
Mr O was concerned that RSA had refused to accept the advice of his builders and 
preferred to base their settlement on a Scope suggested by a claims handler rather 
than a qualified builder or surveyor. Im satisfied that this is incorrect. B is fully 
qualified and has decades of experience in the industry.
RSA admitted that there had been delays in responding to Mr O and that it didnt 
originally explain to him the options regarding matching the bricks. It offered £75 in 
compensation. I can see the delays would have been frustrating, but overall I find this 
offer of compensation was fair.
Im sorry that my decision doesnt bring Mr O more welcome news. But for the 
reasons given I dont find that RSA have treated him unfairly or contrary to his policy 
terms.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman