DRN-3115598
The complaint
Mr Y complains about the introduction of foreign exchange fees by Trading 212 UK Limited, 
referred to as the business. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Clause 27.1 of the business terms and conditions, entitled Amendment states:
oWe may from time to time change the terms of this Agreement for the 
following reasons: 
a.  to make them more favourable to you or to correct mistakes or oversights or 
b. to cover the improvements of the services, the introduction of a new service 
or the replacement of a service with a new one; or
c. to provide for the introduction of new financial systems, change in technology 
and products; or
d. to comply with the requirements under the Applicable Law and regulation.
oClause 27.2 of the terms and conditions states: if we make a change in 
accordance with the above clause, we shall always give you at least 30 days 
written notice before we make the change, except as required by Applicable 
Law or regulation. 
Under Clause 27 of the business terms and conditions, the business was able to 
make changes if it provided Mr Y with 30 days written notice.  
In this instance, on 5 March 2021, the business notified Mr Y of the proposed 
changes via its platform. The notice said: With the following 30 days written notice, 
we would like to bring to your attention that on 3/4/2021 Trading 212 UK ltd will apply 
some amendments to its share dealing terms of Business and Order Execution 
Policy. 
The business also said: Currency conversion charge from 0% to 0.15% for all 
already opened positions, the currency conversion charge will come into force on 
3/5/2021. 
Despite Mr Ys concerns, the business provided the necessary period of notification. 
It therefore hasnt acted outside of its terms and conditions. 
The business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial 
judgement to bring about changes to its fees. 
Were not the regulator, its therefore not our role to regulate the business in terms of 
changes that it does or doesnt bring into force. 
Mr Y disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
The introduction of new charges is bait and switch tactics. The investigator hasnt 
commented on whether these changes are treating customers fairly.  
The businesss ability to introduce new fees isnt in dispute. Whats in dispute is the 
impact which hasnt been addressed in any meaningful way. 
The 30-day notice period isnt enough time to address the impact of these changes. 
Should the financial products have been a transaction this change in the terms and 
conditions wouldve been fine but this is a shift in position altogether.  
The investigator was setting him up so that the complaint would fail. The business 
should be treating customers ethically but its not. 
Its not worth bringing these complaints to our service. He feels its all about closing 
cases rather than looking through them in a meaningful way. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what Mr Y says, I cant safely say that 
the business behaved unreasonably by bringing about changes to its fees.  
 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ys strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided submissions to support 
the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the 
fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, 
as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr Y, and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
A business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, to 
set its own fees/change its fee structure. Its not for us to tell a business how to run its affairs 
 based on what Mr Y says it seems he agrees with this. In the circumstances Im unable to 
say that the business has done anything wrong by introducing changes to its fee structure, if 
it properly notified Mr Y in good time, which Im satisfied it did in line with its terms and 
conditions. Therefore, in this instance, Im unable to say that it has treated Mr Y unfairly.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that Mr Y was sent notification of 
the upcoming changes via the platform on 5 March 2021, and Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that these messages werent received. I note the notice contained the following message:
With the following 30 days written notice, we could like to bring to your attention that on 
3/4/2021 Trading 212 UK ltd will apply some amendments to its share dealing terms of 
Business and Order Execution Policy. 
I note the business also explained: Currency conversion charge from 0% to 0.15% for all 
already opened positions, the currency conversion charge will come into force on 3/5/2021. 
On balance, Im satisfied that the messages made clear, in good time, the changes that were 
about to be implemented. Mr Y probably had some choice about whether (or not) he wished to proceed under the new fee structure. Just because the fees increased  and it wasnt 
what Mr Y wouldve wanted  doesnt mean that hes entitled to the previous fee structure, a 
refund, or that the business has behaved unreasonably.  
Whether or not this is as Mr Y claims bait and switch tactics  on the face of the evidence 
and on balance I cant safely say that it is  Ive seen nothing to suggest that the business 
gave any guarantee that it would never change its fee structure or that it would continue to 
provide a service for free. I appreciate this is disappointing to Mr Y but in the circumstances, 
I cant say the business has behaved unreasonably. 
I note Mr Y says the 30-day notice period isnt enough time to address the impact of these 
changes, but as an execution only online platform its very much up to him to manage his 
own investments. If Mr Y feels that the notice period is unfair, immoral or unethical it might 
be something that he might wish to consider taking up with the industry regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) directly. 
I note the investigator has already explained that as a service we do share complaint data 
and common trends with the FCA. I agree with the investigator that its a matter for the FCA 
to act if it feels its necessary to do so. 
I appreciate Mr Y will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint and give Mr Y what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman