DRN-3732766
The complaint
Ms T's complains that Belmont Regency Limited (Belmont) gave her unsuitable advice to 
transfer her personal pension plan with her existing provider (provider A) to a Small Self-
Administered Scheme (SSAS) with another provider (provider B). She thinks she has 
suffered a financial loss as a result of the advice.
Ms T is represented in her complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). But Ill only 
refer to her in my decision.
What happened
Ms T said that Belmont contacted her about a pension review. And then reviewed her 
pensions and advised her to make a transfer to a SSAS with provider B. I understand that 
Ms T had been with provider A since 1 November 2012.
Provider A provided transfer information which included a What you need to do section 
which stated: I recommend that you discuss your options with an adviser before making a 
decision. Current adviser details  those of Belmont  were included on the same page.
Ms T completed the required transfer forms on 7 January 2015.
Ms T complained to Belmont through a CMC. She said Belmont had told her that the transfer 
would be beneficial to her. She wanted to be put back into the position she wouldve been in 
but for the unsuitable advice. 
Belmont issued its final response to the complaint on 13 December 2021. It didnt uphold it. 
It said it didnt hold any file in relation to the advice being complained about. And that it had 
never had any dealings with provider B. It also said that provider B had confirmed that it had 
never opened an agency with Belmont. And that provider B had also confirmed that it had 
never facilitated the payment of any adviser fee for or on behalf of Belmont.
Belmont also said that it had written to Ms T twice in late 2021 to ask her to provide copies of 
any information she had. It said she hadnt provided it with anything. So it had relied on its 
own files and those of provider B in order to investigate the complaint. Having done so, it 
said it had found no evidence of Belmont providing the advice on which the complaint was 
based.
Unhappy, Ms T brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator first considered 
whether the complaint had been brought within the time limits which apply to this service. He 
felt he hadnt seen anything in the information hed been provided with to suggest that the 
complaint had been brought too late.
Our investigator then considered the merits of the complaint. He didnt uphold it. He felt that 
there wasnt enough evidence that Belmont had provided Ms T with the advice being 
complained about. He said he would consider further evidence if it was provided.
Ms T didnt agree with our investigator, although she provided no additional evidence.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that there is no 
evidence that the complaint had been brought to this service too late. And I also agree with 
our investigator that there isnt enough evidence to show that Belmont provided any 
unsuitable advice. Ill explain why.
Ms T has provided evidence that Belmont had acted as her financial adviser in the past. 
Belmont said that it had arranged Ms Ts personal pension plan with her original provider. 
Ive seen correspondence from provider A to Ms T, including a transfer form which Ms T 
signed on 7 January 2015. But Ive not seen anything on the correspondence which 
indicates that financial advice was provided by Belmont in relation to the transfer. The only 
reference Ive seen to financial advice is the note I referred to earlier from provider A which 
recommended that Ms T discussed her options with an adviser before making a decision. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Belmont were on provider As file as advisers 
simply because it had arranged her personal pension plan with provider A. 
From the available evidence, I can see that Belmont had been recorded on provider As file 
as Ms Ts advisers. But Ive seen no evidence that Belmont provided Ms T with the advice 
being complained about, that is, the transfer from provider A to provider B. Without such 
evidence, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to conclude that Belmont was responsible 
for the advice to transfer to provider B. 
Ive also not seen any evidence to be able to fairly conclude that the advice to transfer  if 
any was provided  was unsuitable. 
Ive seen that Belmont requested additional evidence from Ms T so it could fairly consider 
her complaint. This service has also made repeated requests to Ms T and her 
representatives for further evidence, but none has been provided. 
Overall, Ive not seen enough evidence to show that Belmont gave financial advice in 
respect of Ms Ts transfer from provider A to provider B. And Ive not seen any evidence that 
if there was any advice, it was unsuitable. Therefore I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman