DRN-1438625
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the outstanding repairs following a claim made under a 
building warranty.
The complaint has been brought to us by all leaseholders at the property as the outstanding 
issues concern 'common parts' of the building. The leaseholders have been represented by 
one leaseholder, who I'll refer to as Mr K. This decision is specific to Mr R.
What happened
The claim dates back to the mid-2000s and concerns water ingress to the lower ground floor 
area. Although it wasn't directly damaged by the water, a paved walkway had to be partly 
taken up in order for the repair and subsequent rectification work to be done. In doing 
that some bricks in the walkway were broken and needed replacing.
A complaint about the walkway has arisen because the replacement bricks don't match the 
existing ones. East West said it wasn't possible to source matching bricks and the ones used 
were the best match available. It felt the replacement bricks will weather over time and that 
the colour difference will reduce. It said the warranty doesn't contain a 'matching items' 
clause, so there's no cover for replacing the entire walkway.
There's also a complaint about an external door, which Mr K said had warped due to being 
exposed to water. East West's loss adjuster said the door hadn't warped. He said the door 
banged on the keep on the slave door as the keep was fixed in the wrong place. This caused 
the door to bang against the keep and not close properly. Mr K told us the work 
recommended by the loss adjuster has now been done, but the door is still warped.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision which outlined the reasons why I thought the complaint 
should be upheld. The relevant parts of my provisional decision are repeated below.
Warped door
Although I'd seen pictures of the door and I'd read what had been said regarding the 
damage, it was unclear to me whether the door is warped, what caused it to warp 
(given what Mr K had said about the recommended work having been done), whether 
East West is liable to fix it, what needs to be done to fix it and how much it will cost.
So, I felt there was insufficient evidence to show that East West was liable to fix any 
problem with the door. But there was little to show that it wasn't liable either. So I 
thought the fair, and pragmatic, way forward was for East West to appoint a loss 
adjuster to inspect the door and report specifically on the points I'd made. Once the 
loss adjuster had completed their report Mr R and East West could liaise with each 
other about moving things forward.
Matching bricks
Sometimes an insurer can't replace an item or part of an item with an exact match so 
they replace with the nearest equivalent. A problem then arises because prior to the claim the consumer had a set or items that matched, but after the claim they don't. 
Consumers often think that's unfair, so they feel their insurer should cover the cost of 
replacing the whole set/item. But insurance policies and warranties generally only 
pay for damaged items - they don't pay for things that aren't damaged. So insurers 
think it's unfair to expect them to pay for undamaged items that form part of a set.
Our normal position is that a compromise is the fair solution to the problem. The 
compromise is generally the insurer paying the consumer compensation to reflect the 
fact they've suffered a 'loss of match' - with the compensation most often (but not 
always) being 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged part of the set/item.
It wasn't in dispute that the replacement bricks didn't match the existing ones. The 
issue therefore was what East West should do to rectify matters. As there was a loss 
of match in this case, I thought the fair resolution was for the matter to be resolved in 
line with our normal position. So I thought East West should compensate Mr R for the 
loss of match.
I hadn't been provided with any information about the cost of replacing the 
undamaged part of the walkway in order for there to be a complete match. So I 
thought the amount East West needed to pay Mr R was "d", with "d" calculated as 
follows: 
o"a" = the cost of replacing the whole walkway
o"b" = the cost of replacing the damaged bricks only
o"c" = "a" minus "b"
o"d" = 50% of "c", divided by 10 (the number of leaseholders).
 
Distress and inconvenience
I didn't think there were grounds to require East West to pay further compensation on 
top of what I'd already proposed for the mismatched bricks as what I'd proposed 
encompassed any distress or inconvenience due to the loss of match.
However, East West had agreed with our investigator to pay a further £250 
compensation. I concluded that was fair - albeit that Mr R's "share" was £25.
 
Responses to my provisional decision
I didn't hear further from Mr R but Mr K provided a quote (for £9,100 plus VAT) to repave the 
whole walkway. He also said that if it was easier all the money could be paid to the 
management company.
For the door, East West was reluctant to send a further loss adjuster as there hasnt been 
any further water ingress since its loss adjuster visited in 2017. It noted my comment about 
there being no evidence that East West had any liability to repair the doors based on what 
had been presented. So it felt responsibility lay with Mr R to prove his claim. It said if Mr R 
got a report which showed the door is warped as a result of failed works East West would 
reimburse the reasonable cost of the report.
For the walkway, East West confirmed it is prepared to accept 50% of the cost of the quote 
Mr K provided. It noted the proposed calculation was to reduce this by the cost of the bricks 
already replaced  which it couldnt identify. So it felt, to be pragmatic, it was simpler to split 
the contribution equally  with East West paying £4,550 plus VAT. But it said it would 
normally only pay VAT once an invoice for the work is provided, and it wanted my direction 
on this point.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Warped door
I hear what East West is saying about the evidence so far presented and it being Mr Rs 
responsibility to prove his claim. But it remains the case that there is little evidence either 
way about what the current situation is; and I remain of the view that the most appropriate 
way forward is for a loss adjuster to be appointed  as outlined above.
Matching bricks
As outlined by East West, Mr Ks quote doesnt enable me to calculate d because I still 
dont know what b is. However, simply splitting the quote in two as suggested by East West 
is a good compromise  its certainly not a disadvantage to Mr R as the compensation paid 
to him would inevitably be less if the cost of only replacing the damaged bricks is subtracted 
from the quote.
I dont think East Wests comment about the VAT has any bearing on the payment. Im 
aware that when settling a claim for repairs insurers will often settle net of VAT initially and 
then pay the VAT once repairs are complete and an invoice is presented. But here East 
West isnt contributing towards the cost of replacing the walkway so that it matches  its 
paying compensation to reflect the loss of match. It might be that Mr R never pays to repair 
the walkway and he puts up with the loss of match and uses the money for something else.
So with all the above in mind, I conclude that fair compensation to be paid to Mr R is £546  
calculated as follows:
£9,100 plus £1,820 (VAT) = £10,920
50% of £10,920 = £5,460
£5,460 divided by ten leaseholders = £546
Distress and inconvenience
Neither party made specific further comments about the compensation. So, to confirm, I 
conclude that East Wests agreement to pay total compensation of £250 is fair  with Mr Rs 
share being £25.
Payment of the money
Ive noted Mr Ks comment about the money being paid to the management company. I dont 
make any direction in this respect. I leave it to Mr R to discuss this directly with East West.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require East West Insurance Company Limited to:
appoint a loss adjuster to inspect the door and report on the issues I've outlined 
above - and to then consider its liability
pay Mr R £546 compensation for the loss of match; and
pay Mr R £25 compensation.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2020.
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman