DRN-2890756
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as V, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt provide enough 
information about the cost of early termination of a fixed rate business loan.
What happened
V operates an agricultural business. In 2012, the partners took out a £101,500 business loan 
from Lloyds. The loan was to be repaid over 25 years and the interest rate was fixed for the 
first 15 years. 
In 2020, the partners complained to Lloyds that they were unable to refinance or reduce the 
loan because they would have to pay a substantial break cost to end the fixed rate early. 
They said that when the loans were sold, the bank had provided inadequate information 
about the break cost risk. 
Lloyds offered to settle the complaint by putting V in the position it would have been in if the 
fixed rate on the loan had been terminated on the date of the complaint in 2020 with a 
reduced break cost. V wasnt satisfied with Lloyds offer and referred the complaint to us.
Having looked at the evidence in this complaint, our investigator didnt think the bank needed 
to do anything further. Her main reasons were as follows, in summary.
She was satisfied that Lloyds had provided V with pre-sale information explaining 
that substantial break costs could be incurred if the lending were repaid early. The 
copy of the document sent to us by Lloyds included an acknowledgement, signed by 
one of the partners (Mr E), confirming that the information in the product profile had 
been read and understood. 
V also took out a variable rate loan alongside the fixed rate loan. This would have 
allowed some flexibility for V to make early repayments. It also showed that the 
partners were aware of other lending products when they chose to fix the rate on 
some of their borrowing.
The bank said it could have done more to explain the potential size of the break costs 
on the fixed rate loan. The investigator therefore considered whether the partners 
would have done anything differently if they had been fully aware of the potential size 
of the break costs. 
V was a family business with a plan for it to be passed on to the next generation. 
There was no evidence that the partners had any intention to sell the business, or 
that their circumstances were expected to change during the fixed rate period. 
The investigator thought the partners entered the fixed rate loan for the certainty of 
future costs. As she didnt think they intended to repay the loan early, she wasnt 
persuaded they would have done anything differently if theyd received more 
information about the potential size of the break costs.
V didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. Mr E made the following points, in 
summary:
The partners were not given the pre-sale documents describing and illustrating the 
break costs. The signature on the copy of the product profile submitted by the bank is 
counterfeit  its a scanned version of Mr Es signature. His name in capitals beneath 
the signature is not in his handwriting.
The page numbering of the fax pages shows that the product profile document was 
not originally among the documents he signed. Moreover, the partners didnt possess 
a fax machine, so they couldnt have sent the signed document by fax.
The product profile document was an internal bank form which customers dont get to 
read. By the time the customer becomes aware, theyre locked in.
V raised other complaints about the loan, but the investigator pointed out that those were 
outside our time limits and we have no powers to consider them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I too have reached the conclusion that Lloyds doesnt need to do anything further. 
Mr E asserts strongly that he did not see or sign the product profile document. I dont doubt 
the sincerity of his recollections, but after the passing of more than eight years since the 
events in question, I believe he is mistaken. From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that 
the bank provided the product profile at the time of the sale and that Mr E signed it. 
The product profile is not an internal document. Im satisfied that its a document routinely 
given to the customer during the sale of fixed rate loans and then signed by the customer.
Im not persuaded that the bank has falsified Mr Es signature by adding a scanned copy of 
it. Ive looked carefully at all the documents and I can see no evidence that the signature 
was added in this way. Mr E may be correct that his name in capitals underneath his 
signature was written by someone else, but its not uncommon for bank representatives to fill 
in some parts of application forms in this way. The same handwriting appears next to Mr Es 
signature on the main loan application form, and the partners havent made any suggestion 
of forgery there. 
After the loan was agreed, the documents were faxed from one part of the bank to another. 
The fax page numbers are therefore internal to the banks administration and tell us nothing 
about the page order at the time of signing. Nor has the bank suggested that the partnership 
returned the forms by fax.
In my view, the information given by the bank in the documents was enough to alert V to the 
risk that early exit from the fixed rate could result in substantial break costs. The bank also 
stated that the break costs would be influenced by the interest rate environment and market 
conditions at the time of exit. 
Although Lloyds gave information about the risk of break costs, the bank has acknowledged 
that it could have done more to explain the potential size of those costs, so Ive considered 
whether the partners might have made a different decision if the break cost illustrations had 
shown circumstances in which larger amounts would be due. For the same reasons as given by the investigator, I conclude that the partners would still 
have chosen to enter the fixed rate loan, even if they had possessed more information about 
the potential size of break costs. 
There was a family succession plan and, from what Ive seen, I believe the partners 
expected to keep running their agricultural business over the long term. For this reason, I 
think the partners would have felt there was a very low likelihood that they would need to exit 
the loan before the end of the fixed rate. Moreover, V retained £106,500 of its borrowing on 
a variable rate, leaving room for reduction of debt if required. 
Borrowing for the business over the long term carried risk, whether the loan rate was 
variable or fixed  though the risks would be different. For the variable rate, the risk would be 
that rising rates might make the repayments unsustainable, while for the fixed rate, the risk 
was the possibility of incurring a break cost if V had to exit the fixed rate early. 
I believe the certainty of interest payments over the long term was attractive to the partners 
and would have outweighed concerns about the break cost risk. The break costs shown in 
the banks illustrations were substantial and theres no evidence that the partners expressed 
concerns about them. Given the partnerships intention to keep the business for the long 
term, I believe that even if the illustrations had shown market scenarios with greater break 
costs, V would have been content to proceed so that the family could be sure the 
repayments would remain sustainable.
For the above reasons, I conclude that Lloyds gave enough information to alert the partners 
to the risk of substantial break costs, and that they would still have entered into the 
agreement even if the bank had given more information about the potential scale of those 
costs. I therefore dont require the bank to do anything to settle the complaint.
Lloyds offered to put V in the position it would have been in if the fixed rate on the loan had 
been terminated in 2020 with break costs reduced in line with illustrations given in 2012. The 
bank has said this offer remains open to the customer. I also understand that the costs of 
exiting the loan at the present time may be lower than they were previously, as a result of 
recent changes in the interest rate environment. The partners should contact Lloyds directly 
if they now wish to accept the banks offer regarding the loan, or if they wish to discuss the 
costs of breaking the fixed rate now.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything to settle this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman