DRN-3361553
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance rejected his claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr C bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was initially funded by a loan 
from Clydesdale, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr C into believing that the panels would be more beneficial than they would be. He says 
this was especially the case in regards to the value of the savings he would make from using 
some of the electricity generated.
Initially Clydesdale responded to say it was not upholding the complaint. After the complaint 
was referred to us, Clydesdale reconsidered the matter and upheld the complaint. However, 
once it calculated redress, in line with our usual approach, it found that Mr Cs solar panels 
would generate a benefit  in energy savings and feed-in tariff (FIT) payments  over ten 
years that was more than hed actually paid for the loan (which Mr C had paid off after just a 
few months, meaning he paid much less interest than if the loan had run its full term). So, 
Clydesdale said there was no refund due to him, but offered £100 compensation in 
recognition of the inconvenience caused by it not initially upholding the complaint.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the offer 
Clydesdale had made was fair. 
Mr C disagreed. He says he agreed to buy the solar panels as they were sold to him as an 
investment that would generate a significant benefit over 25 years. He says that if hed been 
given the correct information about the benefits of the solar panels he wouldnt have 
invested in them and couldve used the money for other, more beneficial, investments. So, 
Mr C thinks he should receive significant additional redress to reflect the anticipated 
investment returns that hes missed out on.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was not planning to uphold this complaint 
and explaining my reasons. Mr C disagreed. Clydesdale made no further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. Im 
satisfied that it has followed this in upholding the complaint and calculating potential redress, 
including its offer of £100 compensation. I have carefully considered Mr Cs comments about 
investment loss and the additional evidence he has provided to us. Having done this, I have 
decided not to award any additional compensation. I will explain my reasons.
When upholding a complaint like this, in looking to put things right we do not seek to make 
the misrepresentation true. So, in this case we would not tell Clydesdale to pay Mr C the 
shortfall between the savings and income he will likely make and the savings and income he 
thought he would make. Rather we seek to, as far as reasonably possible, put the consumer 
in the position he wouldve been in had the misrepresentation not taken place. 
Where we think a consumer would not have bought a product, this would normally involve 
cancelling the loan and refunding any payments made, plus compensatory interest for the 
time the consumer was without that money. The product would have to be returned (or 
handed over to the lender) so the consumer would no longer have it. 
But in the case of solar panels this does not seem appropriate. Removing them has a 
significant additional cost to the lender, and means the consumer misses out on the benefits 
of having them. And the societal benefits of a renewable power source is lost. So, we think a 
fairer outcome is one where:
The solar panels remain in place
They do not cost the consumer more than the benefit they can expect to receive over 
a ten-year period.
The consumer keeps the ongoing benefits of the solar panels beyond that time. 
This approach means that the solar panels will effectively pay for themselves after ten years, 
leaving at least ten years when the consumer will benefit from having them through FIT 
payments (which are paid for a total of 20 years), and potentially even longer from energy 
savings.
My provisional findings 
In this case, Clydesdale has calculated that the benefit to Mr C over ten years is likely to be 
slightly more than the total he paid for them. Because Mr C paid off the loan early and 
therefore saved on interested, that has limited the overall cost to him. But this means that, 
under our usual approach he would receive no refund. However, Clydesdale has offered 
£100 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused by it not upholding the 
complaint initially. Again, that is in line with our usual approach.
Mr C has suggested this is not a fair outcome in this case, because he couldve used the 
money spent on the solar panels loan for other things. So, Ive thought about where that 
money came from and what Mr C did with other funds he had available at that time, to inform 
my decision on whether or not to award additional compensation. Having done so, Ive 
decided not to make a further award.
In July 2015, Mr C sold an investment property. This left him with a significant amount of 
money available to him. Mr C says he used the money received from the sale to do three 
things:
1. Pay off the solar panel loan.
2. Pay off other personal debts (such as on credit cards).
3. Pay for a holiday.
Mr C has suggested that if he had not paid off the solar panel loan he could have invested 
the money elsewhere  either in another investment property or certain Exchange Traded 
Funds (ETFs) which have since achieved significant capital growth. Mr C has asked that he 
be compensated for the loss of investment growth that he says he couldve achieved. Im mindful that Mr Cs main complaint was that the energy savings were significantly inflated 
because they were calculated using an electricity unit price that was far in excess of what he 
was paying at the time. That suggests the main benefit Mr C was attracted to was how much 
he would save on his electricity bills rather than the income he would receive from the FIT 
payments. And Mr C has confirmed that he went for the solar panels in the end because the 
reward was tangible, immediate and felt like we were making an environmental change 
which we had control of. So, I think that Mr C was attracted to the solar panels for more 
than simply the financial benefit.
Im also mindful of the fact that Mr C chose to use a loan at the outset  which meant he was 
agreeing to pay more than the cash price of the solar panels. As an investment, the most 
beneficial way to pay for the solar panels wouldve been to pay the cash price up front and 
incur no interest. That way, Mr C wouldve maximised his returns because he wouldve 
minimised his overall outgoings  albeit at the expense of an up-front cost that hed recoup 
over time. 
That Mr C didnt do this suggests to me that he didnt have this amount of money easily 
available at that time. That conclusion is supported by Mr Cs explanation of where the 
money came from to pay off the loan  which was from the sale of a property four months 
after installation of the solar panels. Mr C paid off the solar panel loan a week after the sale 
proceeds were paid into his account, at the same time as paying off a number of other debts. 
So, in summary, the money used to pay off the solar panels loan appears to have been tied 
up in a property investment at the time the solar panels were sold. So, Mr C couldnt have 
paid for the solar panels up front using that money. And if he did have other funds available 
at that time he chose not to use them. 
Looking at the timing of the sale of the property, and the overall value of the other debts 
Mr C paid off with the proceeds of the sale, I cannot exclude the possibility that Mr C always 
intended to use that money to pay off his debts  rather than to invest elsewhere. 
There is nothing to confirm that Mr C had a track record of investing in ETFs before buying 
the solar panels or afterwards. While Mr C had a property investment in 2015, and in 2018 
set up a company through which to make property investments, the proceeds of the property 
sale in 2015 were used to pay off a significant amount of debts and take a holiday  rather 
than to make further investments.
Overall, I dont think the evidence available to me is sufficient for me to reasonably conclude 
that Mr C wouldve been likely to make a specific type of investment that wouldve put him in 
a better position than he is in now. That being the case, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to make a further award of compensation on the basis that Mr C wouldve made 
such an investment. 
In summary, I provisionally decided that:
While the solar panels were misrepresented to Mr C, by paying off the loan early he 
avoided the losses he would otherwise have suffered had the loan ran to its full term. 
As a result, the benefits of the solar panels over ten years are likely to exceed the 
total amount Mr C paid for them (even before factoring in the recent increase in 
energy costs). 
Mr C will benefit after the tenth year through another ten years of FIT payments (the 
unit rate of which increases with inflation) and probably longer through savings on his 
electricity bill from using some of the electricity generated. Clydesdale has offered £100 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience 
caused by it not initially upholding the complaint and I think this is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Im not persuaded that Mr C has or will suffer further losses through missed 
investment opportunities.  
So, while I provisionally upheld this complaint, I wasnt planning to direct Clydesdale to do 
more than it has already offered to do. 
Mr Cs additional comments
Mr C replied to say he welcomed me upholding the complaint but disagreed with the 
proposed redress. In summary, he said:
The expected savings calculated by the seller (using vastly inflated unit costs) was 
£299.98 (1666kwh at 18p per kWh).
The actual savings using actual unit rate at the time of sale was £129.12 (1666kwh at 
7.75p per kWh).
He is receiving £170.86 less per year than he was told he would. 
Over 25 years thats £4271.50 before inflation and £6,229 with inflation at 3%.
He didnt invest to get money back over 10 years but invested for a return over 25 
years.
He took out a loan as a pseudo insurance policy against the selling company being 
liquidated. It was always his intention to pay off the loan early.
The FIT tariff was changing at the end of the month, so he had the panels fitted 
before that change and took the loan as protection. 
FIT payments do not form part of his complaint which is about inflating and 
exaggerating the savings from energy bills.
He disagrees with my approach to compensation. He feels that the return through 
savings will be over £6000 less he was promised, so he would like to be 
compensated for this loss.
If the only way to redress that situation is for Clydesdale to remove the panels and 
compensate then that is what should happen. 
My further findings
I have considered Mr Cs additional comments, but I am not persuaded to change my 
decision. 
Mr C is asking me to compensate him for a perceived loss, between the electricity savings 
he was expecting based on what he was told at the time of sale, and what he thinks is likely 
over 25 years. He wants me to ignore the benefit provided by the FIT payments which will 
last for 20 years. 
However, I am not persuaded that would be a fair and reasonable outcome in all 
circumstances of the complaint. I dont think the system performance in the sales contract 
can be taken to provide a guarantee of electricity savings over the 25-year lifetime of the 
solar panels. Nor do I think it claims to provide such a guarantee.
I would expect the sales contract to provide a reasonable estimate of the system 
performance in terms of the kWh of electricity the system will generate in the first year. That 
seems to have been the case, given the meter readings suggest the system has produced 
more electricity per year on average than was shown on the contract. Mr C has confirmed he 
is not complaining about the estimated FIT payments shown on the contract, only the estimated electricity savings, which further suggests the system is generating the expected 
amount of electricity. 
I dont think it is possible to accurately predict future electricity prices. And Im mindful that 
the sales contract does not claim to do this  it only attempts to predict the first-year benefits 
of the system. 
Mr C says the electricity savings figure in the contract is misleading, as this uses a unit price 
much higher than he was paying at the time. Mr C has provided evidence of the unit price he 
was paying roughly a year after the sale took place. So, I dont know the exact unit price he 
was paying at the time. I accept it was likely to have been considerably lower than shown on 
the contract. And although the contract suggests the unit price used for the electricity saving 
is an estimate, that may well have misled Mr C.
Accepting that this induced Mr C into entering into the contract, that means the system was 
mis-sold to Mr C (something of which there is no dispute in this complaint). But I dont think it 
would be appropriate to compensate Mr C based solely on the difference between the 
electricity savings he thought he would get at the time of sale, and what he now thinks he will 
get, while ignoring the additional benefits of the system and the uncertainty of future 
electricity prices. 
While the unit price of the FIT payments initially set by when the system was registered for 
the FIT scheme, is linked to inflation and will continue for 20 years after installation, the 
savings depend on the unit price of electricity and will continue for as long as the solar panel 
system is functioning (this is generally expected to be 25 years or more). The savings 
realised will also depend on how much electricity is used at the property and when.
At the time of sale, it appears Mr C was paying much less for his electricity than was 
estimated in the sales contract. So, I accept the electricity savings he will have made in that 
first year (and probably for some years after) will have been less than expected.
However, over the past year or so the cost of electricity for consumers has increased 
significantly and is set to increase significantly again from April 2022. It is also projected to 
increase significantly again from October 2022. While such increases are unprecedented, 
they will have the effect of significantly increasing the benefits, through electricity savings, of 
Mr Cs solar panel system. Overall, Im satisfied that Mr C is likely to get a return on his 
investment through energy savings and that this will probably be much higher now than 
couldve reasonably been predicted when Mr C agreed to buy the solar panels or when he 
made his complaint. 
Having considered everything, Ive decided, in line with my provisional decision, to uphold 
this complaint. But I will not direct Clydesdale to pay Mr C any more than the £100 it has 
already offered. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Cs complaint for Clydesdale to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr C from the solar 
panels over a ten-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits, after that time. 
Clydesdale has done this calculation and found that Mr C has paid less than the benefits 
over that period. So, Clydesdale does not need to make any payment to Mr C in respect of 
this. However, Clydesdale should share its calculations with Mr C if it hasnt already done so. Nevertheless, Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that 
Mr C first contacted Clydesdale that means the claim should have been upheld. So, I direct 
Clydesdale to pay Mr C £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused (if it hasnt 
already done so).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance should put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman