DRN-4083255
The complaint
D, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed its account without any 
warning causing it financial loss.
What happened
D says it received a message in March or April 2022 from Barclays with a request for 
information. It didnt hear anything else, and its account was closed in November 2022. D 
thinks Barclays should have attempted to call before that.
Barclays said it hadnt made a mistake. It had wanted information from D as part of a know 
your customer exercise and so it could meet legal and regulatory requirements. Barclays 
said it had sent a notification of this to D and reminders. And that had given it notice that its 
account would be closed. It had calls with D on 23 March 2022 and 29 April 2022 and so 
considered D knew about the requirement and said it hadnt met this. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She had seen an audit 
record to show that letters were sent to an address Barclays held for D. And that there had 
been a notification on a banner on online banking. Barclays had recorded in its case notes 
that it spoke to D on 23 March 2022 when it was agreed that D would be sent the forms 
again. On 29 April 2022 it noted that D didnt provide the required information during the call 
but was asked to log into online banking and provide this. Barclays said that it sent a notice 
to close the account on 21 June 2022. This was in line with its terms and conditions. And the 
account was closed on 15 November 2022 and a cheque for the balance sent. There wasnt 
a basis to require Barclays to provide D with the compensation of £5,000 it had requested.
D didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. It maintained that the account was 
closed without warning. The director said that Barclays had been able to send it marketing 
letters but had said it didnt have the staff to call or follow things up about this requirement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note from the records provided by Barclays that the first notification of the requirement to D 
was by online means on 9 March 2022. And it then sent reminders on 26 April and 17 May 
2022. Having not had a further response it sent a notice of closure. The example online 
banner Barclays has provided sets out that the information needed is important and if it isnt 
provided then a consequence could be account closure. The further reminder letters also 
refer to the potential for account closure,
D accepts that it saw at least one message and as our adjudicator has set out had two calls 
with Barclays about this. The timing of those calls is around that for the first communications 
sent by Barclays. I dont see evidence that D completed all the requirements.
Im satisfied from the audit information that the letters were correctly sent. I dont consider 
that Barclays can be fairly responsible for the postal system. The account was closed in line 
with the terms and conditions, and I dont think Barclays had to provide any notice or 
communication in another way.
I appreciate that the account closed more than two months after the notice and that there 
had been a period of time as D says without further contact. And so, D had to arrange for a 
new bank account, and couldnt cash a cheque for the account balance until 14 December 
2022. But Im afraid I dont have a basis to find that Barclays has made a mistake because D 
reasonably knew about the requirement and the potential consequences of not meeting it. 
So, I wont be asking Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman