DRN-3820688
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt do enough to 
protect her from fraud on her credit card account leading to financial loss, inconvenience and 
ongoing stress. 
What happened
Mrs B explains that on 29 April 2022 she contacted Virgin Money following suspicious calls 
about her account. She later received an email saying that her details had been changed 
and her card registered with a mobile phone digital wallet. She called Virgin Money again 
and was assured that the attempted fraud had been dealt with and a new card ordered. But 
she found out on 14 May 2022 when in the process of making a mortgage application that 
the account was near the limit due to fraudulent payments. Mrs B says she had to make a 
further mortgage application and believes that the amount she was able to obtain was 
reduced by £10,000 as a result of what happened. She wants to be compensated for this 
and for the number of calls she made to Virgin Money. And because it didnt respond to her 
complaint.
Virgin Money accepted that it had made mistakes. It hadnt removed the registration for 
mobile phone payment during Mrs Bs second call on 29 April 2022. That meant that the new 
card it ordered for Mrs B was automatically loaded to that, and the fraudster was able to use 
this. It said that corrective action was taken following Mrs Bs call on 14 May 2022 and all 
entries removed on 15 and 16 May 2022. Virgin Money said that there were a number of 
factors that would affect the amount available through a mortgage and that it cant be 
responsible for the decisions of other financial businesses about this. It also said that there 
was a daily limit for making payments by telephone of £750 when Mrs B wanted to repay her 
own borrowing. 
Virgin Money accepted that it hadnt responded to her complaint in the required timescale, 
and this resulted in her contacting this service. And that Mrs B had experienced long call 
waiting times and generally poor service. The errors had caused her distress and 
inconvenience. So, it offered her £400 to compensate for what happened.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Virgin Money do more that it had offered to. He 
wasnt able to say that the lower mortgage amount available to Mrs B was because of these 
transactions. It was up to Virgin Money to set processes around the payment of Mrs Bs bill. 
But it had caused her distress and inconvenience and he thought the offer to compensate 
Mrs B was reasonable. 
Mrs B didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. The compensation wasnt 
acceptable, and shed not been able to step away from this for six months. She tried to stop 
fraud on her account and thered been no due diligence from Virgin Money. And it was 
talking to the fraudster as if it was her and had allowed mobile phone card payment to be set 
up. There had been two hard searches on her credit file. And there were now extra hoops to 
go through as she had a CIFAS protective registration. Mrs B said she was in personal debt 
for spending to make her house safe and which shed expected would add value when she 
applied for the mortgage. And shed received £250 in compensation for a minor issue before 
so the amount here was too low.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id asked our investigator to contact Virgin Money about the compensation and it offered to 
increase this to £700. And our investigator put this to Mrs B for her comments. She said that 
she wasnt pleased with this, and shed had to proceed with work on her house as things had 
been ongoing for so long. Virgin Money didnt act to resolve her complaint. And she said that 
no less than £1,000 would be sufficient and even if this were paid shed think that the 
ombudsman hadnt protected her as a customer. Mrs B emphasised the number of calls 
shed made and emails shed sent about things. She said she was left completely in the 
dark for months. A payment of £1,000 would go towards some of the debt created and was 
the least that could be done. Shed hoped that shed be able to deal with this without further 
pursuing a subject access request (SAR). Generally, she didnt feel that what was now 
offered was sufficient.
I consider I now have a good understanding of Mrs Bs position on the complaint and the 
compensation offered and can fairly make a decision. I need to say that we provide informal 
dispute resolution and consider information and submissions from both parties to a 
complaint.
Many of the key elements around what happened here arent in dispute. A persistent 
fraudster clearly attempted to gain access to Mrs Bs account on 29 April 2022 having also 
contacted her. Mrs B took all the action she could to prevent fraud by contacting Virgin 
Money. And by showing that her account had been taken over. Virgin Money didnt remove 
mobile phone card payment from the account, and this meant that a replacement card 
number was available for use by the fraudster. That was a clear mistake and allowed the 
fraudulent payments. Virgin Money doesnt disagree that it provided poor service and that 
Mrs B made multiple calls. For reasons which arent clear having acknowledged her initial 
complaint on 6 May 2022 it didnt issue a final response until 18 October 2022. But Mrs B 
had already contacted this service on 12 July 2022, and we then started to ask Virgin Money 
about her complaint.
Mrs B has shown that there were hard credit searches to her credit file on 18 May 2022 and 
30 May 2022. She wasnt able to get the amount of mortgage shed anticipated during either 
application. In the first her Virgin Money account was close to the limit and there was already 
a related hard search by the time she made the second application. She believes this has 
affected the amount of money she was able to obtain, and which was essential for important 
household renovations due to start in early June 2022. 
Im afraid that its not possible here to say thats right and whether she would otherwise have 
been able to obtain a higher mortgage amount. There isnt information from another involved 
financial business to support that. There would be a number of factors a potential lender 
would take into account when making its own decision. And so, I dont have a reasonable 
basis to hold Virgin Money responsible for the lower mortgage amount Mrs B says she was 
able to obtain. While I understand the position shes been in and her having to obtain 
alternative finance to complete essential renovations I dont consider thats been shown to 
have been caused by Virgin Moneys actions.
Mrs B has received poor customer service and explains that shed been passed between 
agents who couldnt help and been on long waiting periods. She has suffered distress at 
being the victim of fraud and this has been down to the actions of Virgin Money despite her alerting it to what had happened. She has had to wait a significant period for Virgin Money to 
respond to her complaint. I note what shes said about the SAR and can see that Virgin 
Money said it responded to her on 8 June 2022 and this it says was again sent with the final 
response letter. In view of what were persistent attempts to defraud her I dont see that a 
protective marker would be inappropriate and there is reference in the information from 
Virgin Money about her being asked if she wanted this to be added or not. The level of 
repayments that can be made by phone I agree is a matter for Virgin Money to set.
This service doesnt make punitive awards. We publish guidance about compensation which 
Ive taken into account. And we dont tend to make awards for units of time spent. The 
reason I asked Virgin Money to reconsider its position was largely because I didnt think it 
had taken into account that Mrs B made a further mortgage application. Having noted that 
and the distress caused and poor service I consider that the offer of £700 to resolve this 
complaint is reasonable. I know Mrs B is disappointed by this, but I find that this is the fair 
resolution to her complaint.
My final decision
Virgin Money has now offered to pay Mrs B a total of £700 to resolve this complaint which I 
think is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money pay Mrs B a total of £700 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman