DRN-2910742
The complaint
Mr L is complaining that EUI Limited cancelled his car insurance policy because he didnt 
make a monthly payment on his finance agreement taken out to pay the annual premium. 
What happened
Mr L took out an annual car insurance policy through Admiral as hed just bought a car to 
learn to drive. He chose to pay for the policy through monthly instalments and, to enable him 
to do so, he took out a finance agreement  also provided by Admiral.
Mr L got into financial difficulties which meant his direct debit payment in April 2020 didnt go 
through. Admiral says it wrote to Mr L to say it would attempt to take the payment again in 
seven days and said that, if the payment failed a second time, it would remove the direct 
debit facility. It also asked him to make contact if he couldnt make the payment and it would 
discuss ways to help him.
Admiral later applied for the payment again, but the payment was rejected again. So Admiral 
wrote to Mr L again to say it had cancelled the credit agreement and said Mr L wasnt able to 
pay in instalments any longer. It said Mr L needed to pay the remaining premium or it would 
cancel the insurance policy. It asked him to make contact by 26 May 2020. Mr L didnt do so, 
so it cancelled the insurance policy. It wrote to Mr L to confirm as such and said he owed 
£166.95.
Mr L complained to Admiral that it had cancelled his policy and put a cancellation mark on 
his record. He also didnt agree he owed any money. Admiral didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint 
so he referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. She said she hadnt seen anything to show 
Admiral had acted unfairly. She was satisfied Admiral had written to Mr L to advise him the 
payment had failed on two occasions and asked for the payments to be made, or the policy 
risked being cancelled. And she said Mr L hadnt engaged with Admiral.
The investigator acknowledged Mr L was struggling financially, but she said there wasnt 
anything to show hed made Admiral aware of his situation. She said Admiral had written to 
him asking him to make contact to discuss ways it could help, but he didnt do so. 
The investigator said she recognised the impact this had had on Mr L, but, as she didnt 
think Admiral had done anything wrong, she said she couldnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigator and raised the following points:
Admiral has stopped him from being able to get insurance by putting a cancellation 
marker against his name, which he says forced him to have to sell his car.
He said the Covid-19 pandemic had put thousands of people into financial difficulty, 
including himself and he said Admiral were required to offer a number of options to their 
policyholders during this time. And he said Admiral didnt help him at all.
Admiral unfairly charged a number of fees to cancel the insurance policy. He doesnt 
think he should have to owe anything.
Admiral didnt explain the terms of the insurance policy to him properly.
Admiral didnt record that he only had a provisional licence. He thinks Admiral only 
provided him with a full licence insurance policy because it was more expensive.
As Mr L didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Firstly I note Mr L has complained that Admiral mis-sold the insurance policy  in particular 
not taking into account he only had a provisional licence. But I cant see that he complained 
to Admiral about this before. This service isnt able to consider a complaint until the business 
has had a chance to put things right. So Mr L will need to complain to Admiral directly about 
this first before this service can consider this part of his complaint. As a result, Ive not 
commented on this further in this decision.
Mr L took out an annual car insurance policy. Under the terms of the insurance policy, Mr L 
needed to pay the annual premium upfront. But Mr L wanted to pay the premium in monthly 
instalments. To enable him to do this, Admiral also provided him with a finance agreement. 
In doing so, Admiral effectively paid the annual premium on Mr Ls behalf and Mr L agreed to 
refund this cost, plus interest, in line with the terms of the finance agreement. So this means 
that Mr L entered into two separate contracts  an insurance policy and a finance 
agreement. Admiral acted as both the finance and insurance provider.
Mr L got into financial difficulties which meant the direct debit due on the finance agreement 
in April 2020 didnt go through. Admiral attempted to take this payment on two occasions, 
but both times this payment failed. 
Admiral has shown that it sent Mr L an email and letter saying it would attempt to take the 
payment again in seven days. But it also said, if this failed, Mr L wouldnt be able to continue 
to pay by direct debit. What it meant by this is that it would cancel the credit agreement. I 
can see it also asked him to make contact if he couldnt make the payment and it would 
discuss ways to help him. 
In line with the terms of the finance agreement, Admiral cancelled the finance agreement 
following the second unsuccessful attempt to take the payment. It then wrote to Mr L  again 
by post and email  to say the full premium was owing and it asked him to make contact 
before 26 May 2020 or it would cancel the insurance policy. But Mr L didnt do so
Ive thought about whether Admiral acted fairly in this case, but Im not persuaded it did. I 
accept that the terms of the finance agreement allowed Admiral to immediately cancel the 
finance agreement following the second failed attempt to take the direct debit. But I think it 
also needed to be remembered that this was at the start of lockdown as a result of Covid-19 
and I think Admiral could have taken further steps to contact Mr L, but at least ask him again 
to contact it before it chose to cancel the agreement.
However, I also need to think about whether the situation would be any different had Admiral 
done more. Mr L didnt respond to any of Admirals letters or emails until after it had 
cancelled the policy. And the letters were clear in respect to what would happen if he didnt do so. So, even if Admiral had taken further steps to contact Mr L, Im not persuaded the 
situation would have been different as I dont think Mr L would have contacted Admiral. 
Ultimately the terms of the respective finance agreement and insurance policy allowed 
Admiral to cancel both agreements when Mr L didnt keep up with his monthly payments.
Mr L has highlighted that the industry regulators set out a number of guidelines about where 
it would expect financial businesses and insurers to assist consumers where theyve sought 
assistance due to financial difficulties arising from Covid-19. But the guidelines didnt say 
businesses had to agree to all these measures automatically  but needed to consider 
requests from consumers and understand what was appropriate in each individual case. And 
there was an onus on consumers to contact the businesses to seek assistance. 
Had Mr L contacted Admiral, I would have expected it to explore these options  such as 
agreeing payment holidays or suspension of his insurance policy  but he didnt do so. And, 
ultimately, this is the reason Mr L is in the position hes found himself in  not because of 
anything Admiral did wrong.
Mr L is also unhappy Admiral recorded the cancellation on a number of industry databases 
which has prevented him from getting insurance going forward. But Ive already set out why I 
dont think it was unfair for Admiral to cancel the insurance policy. So it wasnt unfair for 
Admiral to record it had cancelled the insurance policy. But, irrespective of this, Admiral has 
told us its recorded the cancellation as cancelled as non-payment and not due to breach of 
contract. It also said it didnt record it on any external databases. 
Finally, Ive looked at the amounts Admiral has charged Mr L for the policy  including 
administration fees. And Im satisfied that the amount its charged is in line with what it was 
entitled to charge under the terms of the insurance policy.
While I naturally sympathise with the situation Mr L has found himself in, I cant say Admiral 
has treated him unfairly in the specific circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman