DRN-4315308
The complaint
Mrs I is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc has refused to refund the money she lost after 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In late-October 2021 Mrs Is mother (Mrs M) received a call from what appeared to be an 
employee from her building society account provider, but who actually turned out to be a 
scammer. Mrs Ms health and medical conditions meant she was unable to understand 
what she was being told, so she passed the call to Mrs I (who is her main carer). The 
scammer persuaded Mrs I that someone had been applying for loans, the proceeds of 
which had been paid into Mrs Ms account and then passed on to Mrs Is account. And 
the money needed to be returned so that Mrs M and Mrs I wouldnt be held liable for the 
debts. Mrs I complied with the scammers instruction to send money from her two current 
accounts and credit card account to accounts that were, presumably, under the 
scammers control. Mrs I received a total of £21,400 from her mothers account and sent 
a total of £50,400 (via eight faster payments and one debit card payment) from her 
current account and £2,500 from her credit card account.
Mrs I contacted HSBC after speaking with her daughter, whod helped her realise shed 
been scammed. HSBC refused to refund any of the money because it said it had given 
Mrs I effective warnings, which she ignored, and she hadnt done enough to verify the 
caller was a genuine building society employee. It was able to recover a total of 
£3,992.83 from the receiving banks which, I understand, has since been returned to 
Mrs Is accounts. HSBC also sent £21,400 back to Mrs Ms account provider after it 
raised an indemnity. Mrs I didnt accept the banks findings so asked us to look into the 
matter.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part as he thought HSBC 
ought to have done more to protect Mrs I, but she should have done more to verify the 
caller was genuine. He also thought it was wrong of HSBC to send £21,400 of Mrs Is 
own money back to her mothers account provider. Overall, he recommended that HSBC 
should refund 50% of the losses, minus the money thatd already been recovered, plus 
interest. Mrs I didnt accept, so the complaint has come to me.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this year and have reproduced my provisional findings 
below:
Payments made from Mrs Is two current accounts
I must first make clear how much money is at stake in this case because I think one payment 
has, so far, been missed. Mrs I made eight faster payments to the scammer from her two 
current accounts, totalling £49,900. But its my understanding that she also made one debit 
card payment of £500 which was still pending at the time Mrs I first contacted the bank. The 
HSBC adviser she spoke to during the call that took place on 28 October 2021 at 18.14 
confirmed as much, yet seemingly did nothing to stop the payment. And her bank statement 
shows this amount was debited to her account the following day. 
Theres no dispute that Mrs I made and authorised all nine payments that ended up with the 
scammer. So the starting point under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the 
account terms and conditions is that Mrs I is responsible for the payments along with any 
resulting losses.
But the matter doesnt end there. Ive also considered whether Mrs I should have received a 
refund of the money she lost under the provisions of the voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (the Code). HSBC has signed up to the Code, which is 
designed to reimburse victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams. But the Code 
places a level of care on Mrs I too.
Under the CRM Code, and relevant to this particular complaint, a bank may choose not to 
reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
The customer ignored what the Code refers to as an effective warning in relation to the 
payment being made.
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee 
was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods 
or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
The Code defines the requirements for a scam warning to be considered effective and, like 
the investigator, Im not currently satisfied those requirements were met. HSBC hasnt 
engaged with this part of the investigators view so I wont go into great detail on this point. 
What I would say is that HSBC hasnt told us what warnings Mrs I was given. Instead the 
bank has pointed to its safe account scam warnings, which werent presented to Mrs I. 
And, in any event, these dont mention the situation she found herself in  being told that 
loans were being taken out and needed to be repaid promptly. In the circumstances, Mrs I 
cant be said to have ignored an effective warning. 
But I do currently think HSBC has done enough to establish that Mrs I didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing the person she was sending money to was legitimate. Ill 
explain why.
Ive taken into account everything Mrs I has told us and Ive also listened to recordings of 
some of the calls she had with HSBC, including the ones when she first reported the scam. 
Having done so I note that the scammer spoofed Mrs Ms account providers fraud 
departments phone number and Mrs I had called that number back  which verified it was 
Nationwides own number. But she ended that call because the scammer called her back 
while she was on hold, waiting to connect to someone from the genuine building society. 
Also, Mrs I says the scammer sounded authoritative and helpful, but was also stressing the 
importance of prompt action and rushing her to move her money to repay the loans. I accept 
this might have affected Mrs Is ability to think as clearly in the moment as she would have in 
other, less stressful situations. But I also think some of the things the scammer was doing 
and saying ought to have raised some alarm bells for Mrs I and caused her to think twice 
and/or undertake some additional checks before complying with the scammers instruction. I 
say this having taken the following into account:
Mrs I says she took over the call from her mother because Mrs M couldnt hear what the 
caller was saying and was getting confused  Mrs Ms medical condition means she can 
often have difficulty understanding what shes being told. Mrs I also says shes aware of some scams  though not this particular one  and had frequently told her mother not to 
reply to text messages shed received which Mrs I identified as phishing attempts from 
scammers. But, despite this, Mrs I seems to have readily accepted that the scammer 
was a genuine building society employee, without asking any questions or seeking to 
verify the caller.
I have difficulty understanding why Mrs I accepted the scammers suggestion that the 
loans must be repaid with such urgency. If the loans had been taken out fraudulently, but 
she had the money from them in her bank account then this could be returned in due 
course following direct contact with the loan provider. I think Mrs I ought to have paused 
and thought more about was she was being asked to do.
When HSBCs employee asked Mrs I questions during the call when she first shared 
details of what happened during the scam, at times she couldnt remember exactly what 
had happened. She said shed asked the scammer a lot of questions. But also 
suggested the events had got confusing as shed been on the call to the scammer for 
four hours. With that in mind, some of what Mrs M reported during that call seems 
contradictory. On the one hand she said the scammer told her someone was applying for 
loans in her mothers name. But then she said the loans were being applied for in lots of 
different peoples names and she was returning the money to those people. And in 
response to the investigators view, Mrs M said the scammer told her they were in 
contact with the loan providers and the named individuals that she was being told to 
send the money on to worked for those providers. Its somewhat difficult to accept 
everything Mrs M tells us now when she couldnt even be sure what happened straight 
after the call had finished.
In response to our investigators view, Mrs I said she didnt realise the money was 
coming from her mothers account. But when she first reported the scam to HSBC she 
said something different. She said she asked the scammer why the money was being 
paid to her and he said this was because she was an existing payee on her mothers 
account. I appreciate a persons memories of events can fade over time and note these 
events took place almost 18 months ago. In the circumstances, Im inclined to place 
more weight on Mrs Is recollections from the time she reported the scam.
The individual payment amounts coming into Mrs Is account didnt match the amounts 
the scammer was telling Mrs I to send back out. Mrs I said she saw automated 
messages alerted her to the fact money was coming in. I think she ought to have paid 
closer attention to this, queried the discrepancy Ive highlighted and realised something 
wasnt adding up.
Mrs I called her daughter at one point seemingly because she had some concerns about 
what was going on. The scammer overheard the conversation and was apparently angry 
and told her not to speak with anyone until shed given a statement to the police. I can 
see why mention of the police might have alarmed Mrs I, but Im also not sure the 
explanation the scammer gave rings true. I note Mrs I continued to follow the scammers 
instructions but eventually did call her daughter again who told her she was being 
scammed. I suspect Mrs I had some suspicions throughout the call and ought to have 
done more to check and verify what the scammer was telling her.
The one debit card payment isnt covered by the Code. But Ive also considered whether 
HSBC did enough, more generally, to protect Mrs I. Initially, four payments came in from 
Mrs Ms account, it seems, in fairly rapid succession and Mrs I then sent £8,500 out to a new 
payee. This type of activity was unusual given the way Mrs I had previously operated her 
account and I think, is suggestive of a scam. In the circumstances, I think HSBC should have done more to intervene other than just presenting in app warnings. Had it done so I think the 
bank could easily have identified that Mrs I was being scammed and prevented the money 
being lost.
I think both parties ought to have done more here, so I currently consider a fair outcome in 
this case is for HSBC to reimburse 50% of the money Mrs I lost.
When I refer to Mrs Is losses I have to take account of the fact that £21,400 of the money 
she originally sent away wasnt hers, it was her mothers. So, strictly-speaking these are not 
losses which she can claim. However, as the investigator identified, HSBC wrongly sent that 
same amount of money back to Mrs Ms account provider. I dont think its fair to conclude 
that HSBC should be wholly liable for that sum because, at the end of the day Ive already 
concluded that Mrs I should be held 50% liable for any losses. Ill provide further clarity about 
the amount Mrs I should receive back in the Putting things right section below.
HSBC tried to recover most of the money after Mrs I notified it about the scam. But it didnt 
do so until 3 November, six days after Mrs I reported the scam. Its not clear why the bank 
delayed recovery action given that the APP Best Practice Standards say HSBC should have 
made immediate contact with the receiving banks. And the receiving banks ought to 
respond immediately. 
HSBC was able to recover £3,992.83 from the banks that received the nine faster payments. 
But HSBC might have been able to recover more money had it complied with the 
requirement to contact the receiving banks immediately. HSBC should now contact the 
receiving banks to find out whether any additional money could have been recovered had it 
contacted them within one hour of Mrs I reporting the scam. For clarity her first call to the 
bank seems to have taken place at 18.14. If this evidence shows additional money could 
have been recovered, but for HSBCs delays, then I will likely instruct HSBC to make an 
additional award to that which Ive sent out below.
Although the £500 debit card payment was still pending when Mrs I reported the scam, Im 
not convinced HSBC wouldve been able to stop it at that point, but Id welcome the banks 
specific comments on this point in response to this decision. HSBC doesnt seem to have 
made any efforts, so far as I can see, to recover the debit card payment. It could have 
attempted recovery using the chargeback process. But I note similar attempts were made to 
recover the credit card losses and were unsuccessful. I currently think its likely the same 
would have been true if a chargeback had been attempted with regards to the debit card 
payment.
Payments made from Mrs Is credit card
Again, theres no dispute Mrs I made five payments, totalling £2,500, from her credit card 
account to an account which was under the scammers control
The Code Ive talked about above, doesnt apply to credit card payments. But I still think 
HSBC should be held liable for 50% of these losses. I say that because the credit card 
payments seem to have been made at the end of Mrs Is interactions with the scammer, after 
she already made the nine payments from her current account. Ive already explained that I 
think HSBC ought to have intervened while Mrs I was making the transfers from her current 
account. If HSBC had done so it follows that these credit card payments could also have 
been prevented. 
I also note that HSBC now accepts that a mistake was made with regards to the credit card 
account. After Mrs I reported the scam, HSBC says it meant to temporarily refund the five 
disputed payments while it attempted to reclaim the money from the receiver via chargebacks  this is a standard part of that process. But, instead, HSBC debited the five 
payments from Mrs Is account again. This increased the credit card balance from 
approximately £2,500 to £5,000 and interest was charged on that entire debt until HSBC 
reversed the five erroneous payments on 24 March 2022. I can see that HSBC made three 
interest adjustments (totalling £89.34) on the same day it reversed those five payments, but I 
dont think those adjustments were calculated correctly. The only money Mrs I owed on this 
account was related to this scam. And the total interest charged over the period was 
£277.77. Given that the erroneous payments made up half the account balance, the interest 
refund should have been half of the interest charged  in the region of £138.89.
I mention the above to highlight HSBCs mistakes as I think it will have added to the adverse 
impact this scam had on Mrs I. I will talk more about compensation relating to that impact 
below. But, in any event, I think further adjustments need to be made relating to the interest 
Mrs I has been charged on her credit card account since she fell victim to this scam.
While I think Mrs I should bear 50% of the responsibility for the £2,500 she lost via her credit 
card, I dont currently think its fair that HSBC should benefit financially from Mrs I having 
fallen victim to this scam. I think HSBC should have done more to prevent the scam and, if 
had done so I dont think Mrs I would have made any payments from her credit card. Mrs I 
must repay 50%, or £1,250, of the money she lost to this scam via her credit card. But I dont 
think Mrs I should have to pay any interest relating to the £2,500 she paid away to the 
scammer, or the additional £2,500 that HSBC wrongly debited from her account. 
Mrs Is distress and inconvenience
Mrs I undoubtedly suffered some distress and/or inconvenience as a result of this scam. I 
cant attribute all of that to HSBC, although it can be held partially responsible given that I 
think it ought to have intervened and prevented the scam at the point when she made the 
first transfer out of her current account. 
I also see Mrs I was required to speak to a number of different departments given that shed 
lost money from both her current and credit card accounts. I appreciate that different 
products are administered by different departments within the bank. But I have concerns 
about the need for Mrs I to explain what had happened more than once, and liaise with 
different departments, relating to one scam. This is likely, I think, to have caused her 
additional, unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
The bank also then made mistakes with the credit card and wrongly returned the £21,400 
(which was, it seems also delayed for no apparent reason), which Ive already discussed. 
In the circumstances, I currently think HSBC should pay £250 compensation to Mrs I to 
recognise the impact its actions had on her.
It took some time, and intervention on this services part, following my provisional decision to 
obtain the necessary information from the receiving banks about whether prompter action by 
HSBC would have resulted in a higher recovery amount. I have corresponded with both 
parties since that information was received and explained that:
Im disappointed with the efforts HSBC made to obtain the necessary evidence from the 
receiving banks. We had to chase HSBC and ended up contacting the receiving bank 
ourselves. HSBC ought to have gathered this evidence as part of its investigation, before 
the complaint even came to this service. Accordingly, I was minded to increase the 
compensation award from £250 to £350 to recognise the four-month delay (and resulting 
inconvenience to Mrs I) that has occurred since I issued my provisional decision.The evidence from the receiving banks indicated that an additional £3,359.90 would 
likely have been recovered from three of the receiving accounts if HSBC had acted in a 
more timely manner. So I was minded to instruct HSBC to pay this sum to Mrs I, along 
with interest calculated at 8% per year simple from the date the money should have been 
returned to her to the date of settlement. I noted that HSBC wrote to Mrs I on 
8 December 2021 to confirm that £3,825.88 had been recovered from one of the 
receiving banks and would be paid into her account within 24 hours. I thought it fair to 
conclude that the additional £3,359.90  which should have been recovered from the 
same receiving bank  would also likely have been returned to Mrs I on that same date. 
So interest on the difference should be calculated from 8 December 2021.
In response to my provisional decision and further correspondence about increasing my 
award, Mrs I said (in summary) that:
She shouldnt he held liable, in any way, for the £21,400 that HSBC wrongly returned to 
her mothers account. This money was her own and was taken without her consent, so 
should be returned in full.
She has lost all faith in HSBC and has no way of knowing whether the bank will calculate 
the 8% interest award correctly. She would like us to provide a minimum monetary 
amount that she can expect to be paid.
The only objection HSBC raised in response to my provisional decision was that it couldnt 
control the flow of information, and speed of response (or lack thereof), from the receiving 
banks. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain satisfied that the award Ive most recently communicated to the 
parties is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Is comments about the £21,400 that was returned to her 
mothers account. But given all the events that led to this complaint, I remain satisfied that I 
can only fairly hold HSBC responsible for 50% of that money.
I appreciate Mrs Is concern about the interest calculations, but my role is to set out what I 
believe to be a fair principle of redress. And I have no reason to doubt that HSBC will 
accurately calculate the monetary amount in line with my direction. As I understand it, this is 
a fairly automated process and Im not aware of any systemic problems that HSBC is 
currently having when completing such calculations. If Mrs I wishes to estimate what shell 
receive then she should be able to find a tool on the internet which can help with this. HSBC 
should also provide Mrs I with a breakdown, showing how its calculated the total 
compensation amount. And it should answer any reasonable questions she may have about 
this.
I note HSBCs comments about the delays obtaining the necessary information from the 
receiving banks, including that one of the banks refused to respond to its request. But the 
Code sets out that the sending bank should act as the case-handler when a complaint has 
been raised. I think this extends to gathering information from the receiving banks about 
whether earlier recovery would have made a difference and pressing the receiving banks  
with reference to relevant legislation, rules and codes  where necessary. HSBC failed both 
to notify the receiving banks about the scam in a timely manner and gather the necessary 
information retrospectively, which includes dealing with any objections from the Code-covered receiving banks. This should all have been completed before the complaint came to 
this service and should not have required our intervention. The resolution of Mrs Is 
complaint has been delayed as a direct result and Im satisfied an award of £350 
compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Putting things right
With all of the above in mind I instruct HSBC to:
1. Refund £25,200 of the money Mrs I paid away to the scammer via her current accounts, 
plus:
2. Pay interest on the £25,200 refund calculated at 8% simple per year from the date the 
transactions left Mrs Is accounts to the date of settlement. I have awarded this because, 
historically, neither of Mrs Is account carried a significant balance. But on 
13 September 2021, a little over a month before the scam happened, Mrs I received a 
credit of just over £105,500 into her main current account. Mrs I says this was a lump 
sum from her pension which shed intended to use to repay her mortgage. I cant see 
any obvious payments leaving her account pertaining to a mortgage, but I can well 
accept that she may have planned to use the money she lost to this scam for this and/or 
other means rather than leaving it in her current account  where no interest was 
payable  had the scam not occurred. I cant be sufficiently sure what she would have 
done with the money, so I think its fair to award interest calculated at 8% simple per 
year. Having said that, any of the money thats been recovered from the receiving banks 
can be taken into account when calculating the interest, from the date that money was 
returned to Mrs Is account.
 
3. Refund 50% of the money Mrs I paid away to the scammer from her credit card account 
(£1,250). This can be paid to the credit card account if a debt still exists and then:
 
4. Rework Mrs Is credit card account from 28 October 2021 to the present date, refunding 
any charges or interest that have been applied and taking into account the repayments 
she has actually made. If the resulting rework means that Mrs Is account wouldve 
ended up in credit at some point then HSBC should pay her interest both on that credit 
balance and any further repayments she made, calculated at 8% simple per year from 
the date the account would have gone into accredit to the date of settlement.
 
5. Pay £350 compensation to Mrs I.
 
6. Pay an additional £3,359.90 to Mrs I, representing the money HSBC could have 
recovered from the receiving bank accounts if it had acted promptly after Mrs I reported 
the scam. Interest should be added, calculated at 8% per year simple from the date the 
money should have been returned to her (on 8 December 2021) to the date of 
settlement.
If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
the interest award, it should tell Mrs I how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
I dont currently think its fair to deduct the money HSBC managed to reclaim (from the 
receiving banks) from the refunds the bank needs to pay due to its failure to prevent the 
fraud  those reclaimed funds are Mrs Is money and have already been returned to her.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to settle the 
matter as set out above. HSBC UK Bank Plc must do so within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it that Mrs I accepts my final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman