DRN-3535081
The complaint
Mr J says HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt return the funds to his account for over a month after an
international transfer failed, and then there was shortfall of £29.60. This detrimentally
affected his physical and mental health.
What happened
Mr J sent £23,380 to an international account for a property purchase on 7 February 2022.
He paid a £5 fee. The recipient bank was unable to locate the beneficiary account and so the
funds were returned to HSBC. HSBC notified Mr J that there was a problem on 8 February
2022. Mr J then contacted the bank multiple times asking when the money would be
returned to his account. He was repeatedly told it would take between 3 and 7 days. The
money was received from the beneficiary bank and credited to HSBCs suspense account on
18 February 2022. £23,353.10 was transferred to Mr Js account on 10 March 2022.
HSBC explained that there had been a two-week delay in Mr J receiving his money due to
an error it made, and it apologised for this. It offered £100 for any distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr J came to this service saying he wanted a full apology and more adequate compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the banks offer was fair and
explained that the £29.60 shortfall was caused by the difference in exchange rates when the
money was sent and returned. She explained this adjustment was in line with the terms and
conditions of Mr Js account.
Mr J asked for an ombudsmans review. He said the investigators assessment showed bias
and favoured the bank. He was without access to his money for a month and we havent
addressed how this impacted him. I reviewed the complaint and made an additional finding 
that altered the outcome, so I issued a provisional decision to allow both parties to comment. 
An extract follows and forms part of this final decision.
Extract from my provisional decision
I am planning to uphold Mr Js complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Whilst I agree with much of the investigators assessment, I think that as part of a fair
settlement HSBC needs to better recognise that its error that delayed the return of the
money to Mr J. And this meant he didnt have that money to use for a period of time. I will
say more later about what it needs to do.
I have looked at the transfer process and the amount HSBC returned to Mr J. I cant find any
failings in the banks actions at this stage. The terms and conditions of the account allow
HSBC to use the days exchange rate which accounts for the £29.60 difference. And it
alerted Mr J in a timely manner that there was a problem with the transfer.
However, once the recipient bank returned the funds I think HSBC failed Mr J. It has
accepted it made an error and this caused a delay in allocating the money to Mr Js account.
And it has apologised and offered Mr J £100 in support of its apology.
I think this is reasonable in part, but HSBC offered it for any distress and/or inconvenience
caused and it has not taken into account the loss Mr J suffered from not having access to
his funds. Therefore, I am planning to also award Mr J compensatory interest.
Mr J asked for £1,000 compensation but I am not persuaded that level of settlement is
proportionate. I do note the delay created significant stress and anxiety for Mr J. But to reach
my conclusion I have thought carefully about the scale and impact of the banks error, as
well as the duration of the problem.
Mr J also said that he was unable to proceed with his property investment as a result. The
investigator asked for more information, but Mr J has not sent in any related evidence so I
havent been able to consider this. But, more crucially, as I found no error in how HSBC
processed the international transfer initially I dont see there would be any grounds to
conclude it was any part liable for the missed investment opportunity.
I asked the parties to respond with any comments by 15 June 2022. As they both responded 
before this deadline I have been able to issue my final decision sooner.
Mr J accepted the provisional decision, finding it to be fair and reasonable. 
HSBC asked if I was implying the funds should have been returned to Mr J on the same day, 
and said the account the payment was made from does not pay interest on credit balances 
so the customer would therefore not have benefitted from any interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to HSBCs comment about the same-day return of funds, I asked it to provide 
evidence of the timings it usually works to when moving money from its suspense account 
back to a customers account. It said it aims to complete this as quickly as possible, and 
within 48 hours. It acknowledged the transfer back to Mr J did not meet this service level. 
Equally I accept the redress in my provisional decision did not allow for this 48-hour period, 
and I think it is fair to build this in. I have amended what HSBC needs to do accordingly in 
the relevant section below.
HSBC also questioned my interest award arguing that the account the money came from did 
not pay interest on credit balances. But that is not the point  its failing left Mr J without his 
money and our approach in such circumstances is to ask the business to calculate the 
number of days the customer didnt have the money and apply 8% interest a year. We award 
interest at 8% simple as its the current rate on judgment debts. So this point it made does 
not change my decision.
Putting things right - what HSBC must need to do
HSBC must pay the £100 it offered Mr J for the trouble and upset its error caused.
In addition, it should pay simple interest at 8% a year from 48 hours after the date it received 
the funds back from the recipient bank (so 20 February 2022) to the date it returned them to 
Mr Js account (10 March 2022).*
* HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give Mr J acertificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Js complaint in part. HSBC Bank UK Plc must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman