DRN-2254391
The complaint
Miss H complains that NewDay Ltd left her credit card account open for almost three years,
although she understood it had been paid off and closed. She said that having this unused
credit on her credit file prevented her from borrowing elsewhere.
What happened
Miss H told us that shed understood shed paid off and closed her NewDay credit card on 22
April 2017. But then early in 2019 she discovered that the account still showed as active on
her credit file. Miss H complained, and NewDay said it would waive the few pennies of
outstanding interest on her account. It closed the account then. But the closure was dated
February 2019.
Miss H said NewDay promised to call her back within 24 hours, but it didnt. A couple of
months later, she rang NewDay and complained. In May, NewDay upheld her complaint and
offered £20. Miss H wasnt happy with that. She contacted NewDay again in July, to say that
her credit file still showed this account as only recently closed, not closed in 2017. She told
us she spoke to NewDay again in October, and there had been no progress. In January
2019, Miss H complained to our service.
NewDay didnt reply to Miss Hs July complaint until February 2020. Then it wrote again,
increasing its offer to £55. It agreed to backdate the account closure on Miss Hs credit file,
and also confirmed it had waived the interest.
Miss H said shed applied for a different credit card while the NewDay card was still open,
and been turned down because she already had too much credit available to her. NewDay
said Miss Hs account now showed as closed in 2017. It thought if there had been an impact
on her ability to borrow, shed have been in touch sooner. So it thought its offer of £55 was
enough, and it said this was still open to Miss H.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that there wasnt any
evidence that it was this entry from NewDay that had caused Miss H to be refused credit
elsewhere.
Miss H didnt agree. She said she wasnt just unhappy that NewDay had left her account
open, she was also unhappy with how long it had taken to close and backdate the account
once she did complain. She repeated how often shed called NewDay, and how little
progress she made. She really didnt think it shouldve been necessary for our service to
step in to get this matter resolved.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. And he said he couldnt consider a complaint about
how NewDay had dealt with Miss Hs complaint, because thats not a regulated activity.
Miss H said she couldnt understand how she couldnt complain about a financial company
and her financial status. And she said that complaints do have set timescales and guidelines
laid down by the regulator. She said that she was still unhappy we hadnt taken the poor
service into account. She said she hadnt thought she would need to record calls with other
credit card providers to use in this complaint.
As no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Our investigator was right that our service cant consider a complaint which is solely 
about how a business has dealt with a complaint. But I dont think thats what Miss H 
is complaining about here. The core of her complaint is that she alerted NewDay to 
problems with her account and credit file in February 2019, and it took until February 
2020 to sort that out.
I think that what NewDay has now done, in amending Miss Hs credit file to backdate  
the closure of this account to 2017, was the right thing to do. But Miss Hs credit file 
showed this account for almost three years longer than it shouldve. And it did take 
her a very long time to get this matter resolved. So Ive got to think about whether 
£55 in compensation is the right amount to make up for whats gone wrong here.
I have to take into account that Miss H received a complaint response from NewDay 
in May 2019. So she had the option to come to our service then, instead of waiting 
until earlier this year. But I also note Miss Hs comment that she really didnt think it 
ought to be necessary to make a formal complaint about this.
Miss H says this has affected her ability to get credit elsewhere. Shes shown us that 
she was refused credit in May 2018, but she hasnt shown that this account being on 
her credit file was the only reason for that. I think it would be very difficult to show, 
with any degree of certainty, that if this account hadnt been on her credit file, she 
wouldve been accepted. I dont think I can assume that this account was the sole 
reason she was turned down for the other card. But I do accept that having this 
unused credit on her account is likely to have had some impact on her credit 
applications.
Ive considered all the issues in this case, and I dont think NewDays offer of £55 is 
quite the right amount to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I 
think NewDay should pay Miss H £100 in compensation, to make up for the distress 
and inconvenience this issue has caused her.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied to accept my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd must pay Miss H £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman