DRN-3683292
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited avoided (treated it as if it 
never existed) her motor insurance policy and refused to pay her claim.
What happened
Miss M took out a motor insurance policy with Accredited Insurance through a broker. When 
she was involved in an accident, she tried to claim on her policy. 
Accredited Insurance declined her claim, avoided her policy and kept the premiums shed 
already paid. When Miss M complained, it said shed answered the question shed been 
asked about the address where her car was mainly kept incorrectly. And that it considered 
this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid her policy, refuse 
her claim and retain Miss Ms premiums.
Miss M brought her complaint to us and our Investigator thought it should be upheld in part. 
She agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But as it was careless, she said 
Accredited Insurance should refund Miss Ms premiums. 
Accredited Insurance doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an 
Ombudsmans decision. It said it had retained the premiums to recoup its costs.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and if the insurer wouldnt have 
provided the insurance on any terms, it may avoid the policy and refuse all claims, but it 
must return the premiums.
Accredited Insurance thinks Miss M failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she stated in her application that the main garaging address for her 
car was at her parents house rather than at her workplace.  
And Ive looked at the information Miss M provided on the policys Statement of Fact and I 
agree she failed to take reasonable care. This is because she was asked to confirm, 
amongst other things, the postcode where the car was mainly garaged. And I think this was 
a clear question asked by Accredited Insurance.
Miss M chose her parents address. And shes explained that this was because she had two 
addresses, one for work and one for weekends. But Miss M told Accredited Insurance when 
she notified her claim that the car was kept at her work address from Monday to Friday. So 
Im satisfied this was her main garaging address. And I think this means Miss M failed to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she said the car was mainly 
kept at her parents address. 
Accredited Insurance has provided evidence from its underwriting guide which shows that if 
Miss M had not made this misrepresentation it would not have offered her cover at all. This 
means I am satisfied Miss Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
I also think Miss Ms misrepresentation was a careless misrepresentation. This is because I 
think Miss M made an honest mistake, and I can see that Accredited Insurance accepts this.
Therefore, Im satisfied Accredited Insurance was entitled to avoid Miss Ms policy in 
accordance with CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  her policy never existed, 
Accredited Insurance does not have to deal with her claim following the accident. But, as the 
misrepresentation was careless, it isnt entitled under CIDRA to retain her premiums. 
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Accredited Insurance to rely on it to avoid Miss Ms policy produces the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint. But Im also satisfied that it should refund Miss Ms 
premiums.  
Putting things right
I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to refund Miss Ms premiums that were 
retained following the avoidance of her policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to carry out the redress set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman