DRN-2926120
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
What happened
Mrs D took out a hire purchase agreement in October 2000  PPI was applied to her account 
at the same time.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because he didnt think AXA did enough to make sure 
Mrs D was eligible for the policy. AXA didnt respond to the adjudicators opinion and have 
since confirmed they have nothing further to add, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold 
Mrs Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
I note Mrs D says she received advice, but she also cant remember how the policy was 
sold. To my knowledge, AXA didnt usually offer advice and I havent seen anything to 
suggest it did during this sale. So, Ive considered the case on the basis that advice was not 
given, which means AXA didnt have to check the policy was suitable for Mrs D. But AXA still 
had to give Mrs D enough information about the policy, so she could decide whether it was 
right for her. This includes information about the eligibility criteria of the policy. 
To be eligible for the policy, Mrs D had to be in paid employment and working more than 
16 hours per week. And I think this would have mattered to Mrs D because she says she 
working as a cook for less than 16 hours per week at the time her policy was sold.
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ds application form. In the section about PPI, it asked Mrs D to 
confirm she was eligible for the policy. But it referred Mrs D to look at the key features, 
which dont appear on the same page as the application. The application page didnt provide 
any information about what the eligibility criteria was. It also didnt ask Mrs D to provide any 
details about her employment. So, I cant see that AXA confirmed Mrs D was working more 
than 16 hours at the time of sale, or that AXA made it clear to Mrs D that she needed to be in 
order to have the policy.
As Mrs D says she worked less than 16 hours per week, our adjudicator upheld the case 
and said that Mrs D wasnt eligible for the cover and so should not have been sold it. AXA 
didnt provide any response to confirm whether it agreed or disagreed with the assessment. 
Since then, AXA has only said that it has no further response. So, AXA hasnt given me any 
reason to doubt Mrs Ds recollection of how many hours she worked or explained why it 
believes Mrs D would have been aware of the eligibility criteria when she agreed to take the 
policy.
So, as Mrs D has confirmed that she was working less than 16 hours at the time of sale and 
I havent seen anything to suggest that wasnt the case, I think its more likely than not that 
Mrs D ineligible for the policy and this means it wasnt of any use to her.
I dont think Mrs D would have bought the policy if shed realised she wasnt eligible for it and 
AXA should not have sold it to her under these circumstances. So, I think Mrs D has lost out 
because of what AXA did wrong. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs D in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs D would have owed when she closed her credit card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs D owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs D would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs D would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs D 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs D paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs D would 
have owed AXA something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Mrs D what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman