DRN-3195283
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC approved him for credit which he feels was
unaffordable for him at that time. Mr M is also unhappy that Barclays later increased the
credit limit on his account, which he also feels was unaffordable for him at that time.  
What happened
In February 2015, Mr M applied for a Barclays credit account. His application was
successful, and Mr M was approved for a credit account with an initial credit limit of £400. In
October 2016, Barclays increased the credit limit on the account from £400 to £600.
In November 2020, following the receipt of a letter from Barclays, Mr M raised a complaint
with Barclays on the basis that he felt that both the initial provision of credit and later credit
limit increase had been unaffordable for him at those times.
Barclays looked at Mr Ms complaint. They sent an initial response to Mr M on 1 December
2020 in which they apologised for the confusing language in the letter that Mr M had
received which had prompted his complaint and confirmed that £75 had been credited to
Mr Ms account because of this.
However, Barclays then sent a further response letter dated 11 December 2020, which
included an acknowledgment that Barclays shouldnt have accepted Mr Ms initial account
application in 2015, and which confirmed that all charges incurred throughout the lifetime of
the account to date would be reimbursed to the account.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, especially given that he had subsequently
defaulted on the account after being unable to meet the repayments and felt that Barclays,
after acknowledging that the account application should never have been approved, should
remove the default from his credit file. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that the responses that
Barclays had already issued to Mr M represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what
had taken place. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued  provisional decision on this complaint on 3 November 2021 as follows:
The second of the complaint response letters that Barclays issued to Mr M, dated 11
December 2021, includes the following statement. 
 after applying the criteria we should have used at the time I found that 
your application should not have been accepted. Im truly sorry about this.
It would be expected by this service that when a credit provider such as Barclays
acknowledges that they shouldnt have approved an account application, such as 
Barclays have acknowledged in the statement above, that that credit provider would 
then take the corrective steps necessary to put its customer back in the position they 
should have been in, had the application not been approved.
Barclays appear to have taken some of the steps necessary to achieve this, and its 
notable that this second complaint response letter confirms that they would be 
reimbursing to Mr Ms account all the charges incurred on the account since the 
account was opened.
However, it would also be expected by this service that Barclays would have 
removed all reporting regarding the credit account in question from Mr Ms credit file, 
including removing the default relating to this account from Mr Ms credit file. And this 
is because, given that Barclays have acknowledged that the account application 
should never have been approved, and therefore the account should never have 
been opened, it follows that Mr M should never been in a position to not be able to 
make payments on the account and therefore to never have had a default recorded 
on his credit file because of it.
Barclays havent done that here, and so my provisional decision will be that I am 
upholding this complaint in Mr Ms favour and that Barclays must, if they havent 
already:
Reimburse all interest, charges, and fees, incurred or accrued on the account 
since the account opened.
If these reimbursements result in the account have a credit balance in Mr Ms 
favour Barclays must pay this balance to Mr M along with 8% simple interest.
Barclays must also remove all reporting from Mr Ms credit file relating to this
account.
Finally, Barclays must make a payment of £150 to Mr M to compensate him for 
the trouble and upset this ongoing matter has caused. This payment may not 
take the form of a credit to Mr Ms Barclays credit account unless Mr M gives his 
permission for it to do so.
I note that Barclays have stated that they disagree with the conclusion that the 
second complaint response letter dated 11 December 2020 includes an 
acknowledgement that Mr Ms account application should never have been 
approved, and contend instead the writer of that letter was trying to convey that had 
the appropriate criteria being considered at the point of the initial account application 
then it may have been the case that the application wouldnt have been approved, 
rather than it being definitely the case.
I find it difficult to understand Barclays reasoning here, and I consider the statement
referenced above  after applying the criteria we should have used at the time I 
found that your application should not have been accepted  to be a clear 
acknowledgement that the account application shouldnt have been approved. And 
this is emphasised by the following sentence in the letter, where the writer states: 
Im truly sorry about this.
Furthermore, in that same letter, Barclays subsequently confirm the position that theapplication shouldnt have been approved, by stating as follows:
 as a gesture of goodwill, given your application shouldn't have been 
accepted, I have refunded all the charges you incurred throughout the lifetime 
of your account.
And Barclays actions here  the reimbursement of all charges incurred on an account 
 are consistent with corrective actions that would be expected when a business has
acknowledged that an account should never have been opened.
All of which means that Im satisfied that Barclays did acknowledge to Mr M that his 
account application shouldnt have been approved and took some corrective action 
accordingly. But I dont feel that the corrective action that Barclays did take went far 
enough, and its for this reason that Ive reached the provisional decision that I have.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr M and Barclays the opportunity to provide 
any comments or further information they might wish me to consider. Both Mr M and 
Barclays confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional decision and as such I 
can confirm that my final decision will be that I am upholding this complaint on the basis 
explained above.
Putting things right
Barclays must reimburse all interest, charges, and fees, incurred or accrued on the account 
since the account opened.
If these reimbursements result in the account have a credit balance in Mr Ms favour, then
Barclays must pay this balance to Mr M along with 8% simple interest.
Barclays must also remove all reporting from Mr Ms credit file relating to this account.
Finally, Barclays must make a payment of £150 to Mr M to compensate him for the
trouble and upset this ongoing matter has caused. This payment may not take the
form of a credit to Mr Ms Barclays credit account unless Mr M gives his permission
for it to do so.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman