DRN-3317701
The complaint
Mr I complains that Inspop.com Ltd trading as Confused.com made a mistake when sending 
him an insurance quote which has led to him paying more for his car insurance. 
What happened
Mr I received a renewal reminder for his car insurance from Confused.com in 2020. Hed 
used the website before, so the quote was based on this information it already held for him. 
Mr I proceeded with this quote with an insurer Ill refer to as S. 
When Mr I received the confirmation of the policy from S, he noted that the length of time 
hed held his drivers license and his date of birth were incorrect. He contacted S who 
increased his annual premium by £56. 
Mr I complained to Confused.com. He said this incorrect information mustve been provided 
to S on his behalf and that Confused.com should pay him the additional premium. 
Confused.com didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. It said the details used to generate the quote in 
2020 were the same as those Mr I had entered when he previously used the website in 
2019. And Mr I wouldve been given the chance to check everything was correct before he 
proceeded with the policy. It noted that S had confirmed the length of time the driving license 
had been held didnt affect the premium. And, whilst the incorrect date of birth had resulted 
in the increased premium, S had waived the amendment fee for correcting the policy. 
Mr I remained unhappy and referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators considered 
the complaint, but didnt think Confused.com had made a mistake. He said that 
Confused.com had always held the same (wrong) date of birth for Mr I from when he initially 
used the website, and this wasnt a mistake it had made. He also didnt think Mr I had 
suffered a loss as the higher the premium was what he always wouldve had to pay. 
Mr I didnt accept this. He said his previous insurer had his correct date of birth and this was 
set up via Confused.com. Mr I said that when he told S about the mistake he was told a new 
quote had to be generated and this, not the change in his date of birth, was the reason for 
the increase in premium, not his date of birth. He maintained that the mistake must be one 
caused by Confused.com. He asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. So, its 
been passed to me to consider and make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find myself coming to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for 
the same reasons.
Its unclear why Mr Is date of birth was incorrect on Confused.coms database. And Mr I has 
provided evidence that his previous insurer had the correct date of birth on a policy also 
arranged via Confused.com. In situations such as this, I need to make a decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
evidence I do have. 
Confused.com has provided us with its internal records which show that the quote Mr I 
obtained in 2019 also had his incorrect date of birth. This wouldve been input by Mr I when 
he first obtained a quote. I think the most likely explanation here is that Mr I made a mistake 
when he first input his details. I say this as Confused.com is mainly a user driven system 
which automatically provides quotes. So, I cant see where any manual intervention mayve 
occurred to have made this mistake. 
Ive thought about Mr Is point that his previous insurer had the correct date of birth. 
However, like on this occasion with SD, Mr I wouldve been asked to confirm his details. 
Given that he spotted the incorrect date of birth this time, its likely he wouldve done so 
previously and updated this with the previous insurer though I accept he may not remember 
this. This wouldve only updated his date of birth with his insurer, not with Confused.com. So, 
when Confused.com autogenerated a renewal quote, it would be based on the original (and 
incorrect) details.
Ive also been provided with screen shots of what Mr I wouldve seen when applying for the 
insurance in 2020 via Confused.com. This shows he wouldve been asked to confirm his 
details were correct. So, Im satisfied Confused.com did give him the opportunity to check 
and correct the information it held for him.
Our role is to put right where a financial loss has occurred as a result of a business error. In 
this situation, even if I did think Confused.com had made a mistake (which on balance I dont 
on), I dont think Mr I has suffered a financial loss. Mr I has told us he thinks the premium 
increased because a new quote had to be generated, not because of the incorrect date of 
birth. However, I contacted S to ask if this was the case. S confirmed that the additional £56 
is the premium he wouldve had to pay had his date of birth been correct in this first place  it 
wasnt a new quote. And it waived any admin or amendment fees. So, based on this, Im 
satisfied this is the premium he always wouldve had to pay based on his correct date of birth 
being provided at the time he took the policy, and likely wouldve proceeded at the time in 
paying this higher amount.  
Mr S says its common knowledge that the cheapest time to get a renewal quote is three 
weeks before a policy ends and that it gets more expensive the closer you are to renewal. I 
have never heard this before and, from my knowledge of the insurance market, do not 
accept this is the case. As Ive explained, Im satisfied based on what S has told us that Mr I 
is now paying the premium he always wouldve paid had his date of birth been correct at the 
start. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Confused.com has made a mistake, so Im 
not going to tell it to do anything in relation to this complaint. I understand Mr I feels very 
strongly about this matter, and that he will be very disappointed.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Rob DeadmanOmbudsman