DRN-4214416
The complaint
Ms C complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard handled a 
claim she made to it.
What happened
Ms C purchased a package including a non-surgical weight loss device called a gastric 
balloon and aftercare including nutritional, fitness, behavioural and medical support. She 
paid for it using her Barclays credit card and another card from a third party.
Ms C was unhappy with her purchase. In summary, she says she did not achieve the results 
expected and requested to have the balloon removed (which took place shortly after).
Ms C approached Barclays to make a claim for a refund. It raised a chargeback for the 
amount paid on the card, but this was defended so it discontinued the dispute. It also 
considered Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) however, it would not 
uphold her claim. 
Ms C was unhappy with the outcome of her claim to Barclays and the customer service she 
received from it on the way. In particular, she was unhappy with how Barclays spoke to her 
on the phone and what it told her about what she was able to claim for under Section 75.
Barclays accepted that it gave Ms C misleading information over the phone and credited her 
with £50 for the distress and inconvenience  but it would not uphold her Section 75 claim.
Our service looked into the complaint Ms C had made to Barclays about her claim. The 
investigator did not uphold the complaint. In summary, he said there was not persuasive 
evidence that the balloon was defective or inserted without reasonable skill and care. He 
thought a chargeback was unlikely to have succeeded had it been escalated  and that 
Barclays were not wrong in declining the Section 75 claim.
Ms C was unhappy with this and came back to emphasise that she didnt get the weight loss 
results the supplier promised her, and she believes it misled her with claims that convinced 
her to enter into the contract. Ms C also provided further evidence to support her claim that 
she was misled. She says she achieved zero weight loss and that the product is marketed 
as a device that provides results unconditionally.
I issued a provisional decision on this matter. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have considered the parties submissions in full I will only comment on matters I 
consider central to this dispute. I do not wish either party to take this as a discourtesy, but it 
reflects my role resolving disputes informally. While I note Ms C has requested to speak to 
me I dont consider this is necessary for me to fully understand the basis of her complaint. 
I am sorry to hear about the dissatisfaction Ms C has described with the product she bought. 
However, my starting point here is that Barclays is not a supplier of the goods and services. 
So I am considering its role in respect of the specific financial services it provides. In doing 
so I consider the card protections of chargeback and Section 75 to be particularly relevant 
here. It is these that I have focused on.
Section 75
Section 75 in certain circumstances allows Ms C to have a like claim against Barclays for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by a supplier of goods and services paid for using 
her credit card.
Section 75 has technical criteria that needs to be satisfied in order for there to be a valid 
claim in respect of the actions of a particular supplier. For example, relating to who was 
involved in the agreement, how it was paid for and what the goods or services cost. In this 
case I am satisfied the criteria is met for Ms C to have a valid claim against Barclays for a 
possible breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
Here Ms C purchased a 12 Month Intragastic Balloon which according to the terms and 
conditions of the procedure appears to be inserted in a hospital under the care of a 
consultant physician or surgeon. Included in the purchase is an aftercare package with 
support from the supplier.
There has been discussion as to whether the service Ms C purchased and received is 
considered a medical treatment or not. I dont think this ultimately changes the outcome of 
the complaint here for reasons I go on to explain. However, for completeness, while the 
procedure to insert the device is non-surgical it does appear to be done under the care of 
medical professionals with the possibility of side effects and risks and complications. I also 
note there is nothing I have seen from the supplier that specifically says this is not a medical 
treatment or that the balloon is not a medical device of some kind. So overall I would say 
what Ms C purchased has the characteristics of a medical treatment. 
However, regardless of whether the product is classified as a medical treatment or not this 
does not exclude Ms C from having a valid Section 75 claim against Barclays. I say this 
because Ms C was apparently misled by Barclays to believe that buying a medical treatment 
would automatically exclude her from Section 75 protection. This is incorrect as Section 75 
has no exclusions like this. I have dealt with compensation for the customer service Ms C 
received below, however, I wanted to clarify this matter from the outset.
I have now considered the evidence available in order to determine if there is a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier for which Barclays is responsible for.
Breach of contract
In order to determine if there has been a breach of contract by the supplier I have considered 
the specific terms and conditions of the package Ms C bought along with any terms implied 
by consumer law.
In this case I consider the Consumer Rights Act 2015 is particularly relevant as it implies 
terms into consumer contracts in respect of goods and services as follows:
that goods will be of satisfactory quality
that services will be performed with reasonable care and skill It is important to note that whether the product is characterised as a medical procedure or 
not, what Ms C purchased is a complex product. It is something which involves an invasive 
process and possible complications and side effects involving the human body. There also 
appear to be several variables as to whether a consumer will receive particular results.  
Therefore, my starting point is that it is extremely difficult for me to determine if the gastric 
balloon was faulty, or if the consultation and procedure was carried out without reasonable 
care and skill without the input of an appropriate expert (I note that in this case there is no 
expert evidence).
In the absence of an expert report I have considered if anything clearly points to a breach of 
contract here. I note the evidence shows that Ms C had the balloon removed early and the 
reasons she gives to the supplier for this are not losing weight, still feeling hungry and also 
suffering from various unpleasant clinical symptoms. However, in itself this doesnt 
persuade me the balloon is clearly faulty or that the procedure was not carried out with 
reasonable care and skill. 
In coming to this conclusion I note that although the supplier agreed to remove the balloon it 
doesnt appear to be an admission that the goods are defective or improperly inserted. 
Furthermore, considering the express terms and conditions of the contract I note these cover 
the risk of complications and side effects including a possible early removal of the balloon. 
Therefore, having the balloon removed early does not necessarily mean the balloon is faulty 
or inserted without reasonable care and skill  it appears accepted that certain individuals 
might not get on with the treatment and that a refund will not be paid in these circumstances. 
Furthermore, even if I were to agree that Ms C did not receive the weight loss results she 
was expecting (and that isnt clear) this does not automatically lead to a conclusion that the 
balloon was faulty or that the procedure was not carried out with reasonable care and skill 
according to the standards in that particular industry. I note that along with the information 
about risks and complications there appear to be other variables which will influence the 
success of results including whether or not individuals have followed certain aftercare 
requirements. Furthermore, looking at the signed contract and promotional documents there 
are no express terms I can see which entitle Ms C to a refund if she is not happy with the 
results. 
In summary and noting the complexity and possible variables here I am unable to fairly say 
there is a breach of contract by the supplier in respect of the implied terms regarding the 
quality of the product or the way the procedure was carried out. Nor do there appear to be 
any express terms of the contract which entitle Ms C to a refund here.
I understand this will come as a disappoint to Ms C and know how strongly she feels about 
the treatment, however, I am not an expert in these products, so it is difficult for me to 
conclude there has been a breach based on the information I have. It is also worth noting 
that even if Ms C were to obtain an expert report now it does not guarantee that I could say 
Barclays should refund her in any event. I note this being mindful of the passage of time 
since the treatment and the possible challenges around gathering evidence and cross 
examining witnesses about a complex treatment like this at this stage - something which is 
arguably better suited to a court than an informal dispute resolution service.
Misrepresentation / misdescription
I have considered whether the supplier told Ms C something that was false or made some 
kind of guarantee that would contractually entitle her to a refund.Ms C says the supplier told her she would lose 80% of the weight in the first 3 months after 
insertion. She has essentially said what the supplier told her was a guarantee of results 
which turned out to be untrue.
I dont have recordings of the conversations Ms C had with the supplier. This does not mean 
I have discounted what she has said she was told, but I have factored this against the 
paperwork and correspondence she was provided in order to decide what is most likely to 
have occurred here.
In doing so I note that:
the overview document Ms C refers to provides illustrations of the different options 
for weight loss and includes wording stating that outcomes for patients vary just like 
the causes for being overweight or obese vary from person to person;
this document and other documentation Ms C has referred to regarding projected 
results uses terms like average and estimated to qualify matters; and 
the signed contract has no guarantee of losing weight and details the risks and 
complications with the treatment including other variables for weight loss including 
following certain requirements of the plan.
So overall, I am unable to conclude that Ms C was given some kind of unequivocal 
guarantee verbally or otherwise by the supplier when the paperwork points to results being 
variable and not guaranteed.
I also note that even if I were able to conclude (which I am not) that the supplier gave Ms C a 
guarantee of results or I accepted that the term average meant more than zero weight loss 
(as Ms C has claimed) it isnt clear what results Ms C did actually achieve or could have 
achieved in any event. 
In conclusion, based on the evidence I have, I cant fairly conclude that the purchase was 
likely misrepresented by the supplier, or it made contractual promises that were not 
delivered on. 
Overall, I dont think there is persuasive evidence of a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier leading to a loss by Ms C. So I dont consider it is fair and 
reasonable to say that Barclays should have upheld her Section 75 claim.
Chargeback
Raising a chargeback is a way that Barclays can try to recover money that was paid on the 
card. However, it is not guaranteed to succeed and is governed by particular scheme rules. I 
have considered the circumstances of this case alongside the requirements of the 
chargeback scheme. 
It isnt entirely clear what dispute reason code Barclays used here  but it seems likely it 
used that relevant to goods/services being not as described or defective.  In this case it 
appears that Barclays did attempt a chargeback twice. But these were defended by the 
supplier on the basis that there was no guarantee of weight loss success in the contract. 
I think it is debatable whether Barclays would be expected to do more here considering the 
defence raised and the overall nature of the dispute. Even if I were to accept that Barclays 
could have pushed the matter to the arbitration stage I think that considering the lack of expert evidence, the terms and conditions and the nature of the product it is difficult for me to 
say that the card scheme would have likely ruled in Ms Cs favour here.
Customer Service
I agree that Barclayss customer service could have been better during the handling of the 
claim. Ms C has explained that during calls with the claims team she was treated in a rude 
and unprofessional way. And that she was misled to believe that her claim was not covered 
under Section 75 when it is.
I have been sent two call recordings which I believe are from 27 April 2022 of Ms C speaking 
to one of the Barclays Section 75 team about her claim. In these Ms C is given somewhat 
misleading and unclear information by the agent about whether she is able to make a 
Section 75 claim. The agent, particularly in the first call could have handled things better in 
my opinion. Ms C has mentioned terms like hostile and abusive when discussing the calls 
she had with Barclays claims team. My perception is that these terms do not fit what is 
evident on these calls I have heard  however, I do think the patience and temperament 
shown by the call handler could have been better and I accept the way things were handled 
would have been upsetting for Ms C and could have been avoided. I also note from these 
calls that it appears Barclays chargeback process and the nature of the temporary credit 
was not initially made clear to Ms C causing her additional confusion and frustration.
Ms C says that she had several calls with different people in the claims team where she was 
given misleading information and treated poorly. It isnt clear to me if this is the case as 
Barclays appears to have only two call recordings with the same handler  but I am prepared 
to accept that it is likely other members of the claim team would have given Ms C similarly 
misleading information about whether her claim is covered by Section 75 around the time 
particularly as the evidence suggests that colleagues in that department would be following 
the same line of reasoning to the agent on the calls I have heard. 
Ms C also says that she had to resend a letter to Barclays when it didnt respond and then 
told her it didnt have it  it seems from what Barclays has told us that it went to a different 
department initially. However, it isnt clear the reason for this and if it was because Ms C 
addressed it to the wrong department. But on the face of it Barclays should have been aware 
it had received a letter from Ms C when she called in and having to post it again would no 
doubt have added to her frustration.
Ms C has explained the impact of the way things were handled and the distress it has 
caused. It appears that a lot of the distress Ms C had with the claims team naturally stems 
from it not upholding her claim however, there are things that could have been explained 
more clearly and in a different way. I do note that Ms C has received an apology for the way 
things were handled and £50. However, looking at our scale of awards for distress and 
inconvenience I think that the impact of the avoidable distress particularly in relation to the 
phone conversations warrants increased compensation. I think it fair that Barclays add an 
additional £50 for distress and inconvenience to take the overall compensation figure up to 
£100.
My provisional decision
I partly uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to 
pay Ms C £50 in additional compensation. 
I asked the parties for their responses. Barclays accepted the provisional decision. 
Ms C did not accept the decision. In summary she says:
The supplier was very persuasive during the sale, said several misleading things to 
her and provided testimonies to show the success it had for other customers  this is 
misleading and contrary to advertising standards around weight control and slimming 
and a breach of consumer protection law including the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
and Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008.
The supplier told her she would lose 80% of her weight in the first 3 months and said 
the treatment compared more favourably to that available on the NHS.
At the time she was nervous about the risk presented by the pandemic to those 
overweight and there was no vaccine available at the time  sharing her fears about 
this with the supplier led to it persuading her further.
The supplier took a deposit a couple of days before it presented the terms and 
conditions.
The balloon did not give any weight loss as claimed and there were some side effects 
like hunger. Despite co-operating with the supplier it failed to put things right contrary 
to her consumer rights. Her requests to speak with a doctor or dietitian were ignored.
The supplier was aware that she wanted the balloon removed due to it not performing 
as claimed  which contradicts my provisional finding that the supplier agreeing to 
remove the balloon is not an admission it was defective or improperly inserted. Her 
balloon was not removed due to complications like intolerance and the supplier was 
aware of her request for a refund but did not dispute it until after the balloon was 
removed.
The supplier failed to follow the manufacturers instructions for the balloon which 
means it failed under its responsibilities in consumer law.
She does not agree that this case is complex  any customer should expect the 
service or product to be as described whether it is a medical procedure or not.
The supplier is a private company that makes money through selling this product 
while the NHS provide procedures for free that work  it is inconceivable that a 
consumer would agree to pay to have a balloon inserted which the supplier states 
might not provide results.
Ms C also provided some supporting information including an Early Removal Warranty and 
what she says is information from the manufacturer about the balloon.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C has asked that I consider all the evidence and not just the terms and conditions of the 
supplier. For clarity I have taken into account all the evidence submitted. I might not 
comment on everything raised but that is not meant as a discourtesy here  it simply reflects 
my role in resolving complaints informally and as an alternative to the courts. I have focused on what I consider central to this complaint.
I thank Ms C for her recent submissions. Overall, they have not persuaded me to depart 
from my provisional findings (as stated above). What Ms C has sent in I consider to largely 
be a repetition of her previous submissions which I have already addressed  so I dont 
consider it necessary to go into great detail here. However, I will deal with some of the key 
issues arising from Ms Cs response as follows:
I note Ms C considers that this is not a complex case. However, I respectfully disagree. I am 
not a medical professional or expert on gastric balloons or the complications that can arise 
from their insertion. As I have said the process involves the insertion of a device into the 
body and the conduct of medical professionals, while the information which Ms C has 
recently submitted (which she says is from the manufacturer of the device) only goes to 
further underline the complexities and variables at play here.
Furthermore, there are accepted risks that apply in the healthcare industry. Which makes it 
more difficult to say in my role as an informal dispute resolution service that this product is 
faulty or the service was not provided with reasonable skill and care. This is compounded 
where there is no expert evidence.
While I appreciate Ms Cs own view on why the balloon was removed I note there is no 
expert evidence supporting these claims. I dont see where the supplier has accepted that 
the balloon was faulty or badly installed or promised a refund. Ms C requested urgent 
removal of the balloon and this is what the supplier did  but I dont think Ms C expressing 
her opinion that the balloon was faulty prior to removal shows this is an accepted fact or 
contradicts my provisional findings.
I also note that the Early Removal Warranty which Ms C has shown (but I understand she 
did not take out) states specifically that early removal doesnt occur because of any failure in 
care but its a complication that can happen to anyone. Which goes to underline that early 
removal in itself is not a clear indicator of wrongdoing by the supplier.
Further uncertainty and complexity are added here because on face value it appears the 
balloon was removed due to the side effects Ms C described to the supplier as various 
unpleasant clinical symptoms including severe discomfort, bowel problems and sickness. 
So while I recognise Ms Cs strength of feeling and have considered her testimony I am 
unable to fairly conclude Ms C did not get what was described, received a faulty product or a 
service that was carried out without reasonable care and skill. Nor is there persuasive 
evidence that particular aspects of the contract that Ms C was due were not provided to her.
I note Ms C has made claims about what the supplier told her at the point of sale and how 
misleading she considers this to be. It is important to note that while I have taken into 
account what she has said about misleading advertising my focus here is considering her 
Section 75 claim against Barclays for breach of contract or misrepresentation. In that 
respect, I consider it is difficult to conclude that the supplier made false claims based on the 
evidence I have. As I have previously explained - the claims about outcomes which I have 
seen appear to be qualified in some way. 
Furthermore, and in any event, putting aside any qualification of claims  there is still the 
question of how to assess the truth of any particular claim made to Ms C considering the 
complexity and variables I have already described. As I have indicated, I dont know what 
results she actually achieved or were realistically achievable taking into account the 
intervening impact of side effects and early removal. I know Ms C has pointed out that she paid the deposit before signing the contract terms and 
conditions. But it appears she did ultimately agree to these terms and the risks and variables 
of the treatment appear to be set out fairly clearly here. Ms C in her own testimony has also 
stated that the supplier offered her the optional early removal warranty  which appears 
related to the accepted risk that in some circumstances the balloon might fail.
I note Ms C questions why anyone would agree to a private procedure that might not work 
when the NHS can provide it for free (and which she says will work). However, I dont think 
medical procedures are guaranteed to work wherever they are provided. And I think there 
are various reasons that people fund treatments privately. So I dont think what Ms C has 
submitted in this respect persuades me there is clearly a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier here.
In respect of its liability under Section 75 I dont consider Barclays should have done more 
here with Ms Cs claim. Nor, as I have said before do I consider it should have done more in 
respect of chargeback. I do think it should pay more for its customer service  but I know 
that is significantly less than what Ms C was hoping to recover here.
I know Ms C feels extremely strongly about this matter and I have considered her case 
carefully. I am sorry to hear about her circumstances and her disappointment in the 
treatment. She does not have to agree with me and can reject my decision if she wishes. 
She is free, if she wishes to take legal advice as to any other avenues she might be able to 
pursue her claim against the supplier  such as court.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay the increased compensation for its customer service based on my 
provisional findings. However, based on my reasoning here including my provisional findings 
(as copied above) I dont consider it fair and reasonable to direct Barclays to refund Ms C for 
the treatment she purchased.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to 
pay Ms C £50 in additional compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman