DRN-3696584
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund disputed payments made from 
her current account. 
What happened
Miss M says that on 15 May 2021 fraudulent transactions totalling almost £3,500 were made 
from her current account.
Miss M says that on that day her phone and debit card were stolen from her pocket while 
she was out shopping. She believes a fraudster was then able to use her card to make the 
payments.
Barclays investigated and decided not to refund the disputed withdrawals. It didnt agree that 
the transactions were indicative of fraud. It thought Miss M had authorised the withdrawals or 
made them herself because:
the transactions were carried out using Miss Ms genuine card details
it sent messages to Miss Ms mobile phone asking for confirmation that the payments 
were genuine, and got a confirmation back saying they were
it does not feel any plausible explanation has been given as to how a fraudster could 
have accessed Miss Ms phone to respond to the messages
As Miss M didnt agree with Barclays decision, she asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. Miss M disagreed, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out. 
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Miss M is responsible for any payments that she has authorised (either by making them 
herself or allowing someone else to) and she isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. 
So, the key question here is whether Barclays has acted fairly in concluding that Miss M did 
authorise the disputed payments.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Miss Ms genuine card details were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable Barclays to hold her liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss M consented to the 
payments being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that Miss M 
authorised the transactions.
I say this because Miss M told Barclays in a phone call that her phone had been protected 
with a PIN, on that same call she confirmed she had not unlocked her phone in the shop 
where she says it was stolen. I understand Miss M has since said her phone was not locked 
with a PIN, but I think the information she gave Barclays when she spoke with it nearer the 
time of the alleged fraud is more likely to be accurate. So I think its more likely that Miss Ms 
phone was protected with a PIN. 
The payments that Miss M is disputing were flagged by Barclays as being unusual, and as a 
result it sent Miss M text messages asking her to confirm that the payments were legitimate. 
Barclays received responses to those text messages confirming that the payments were 
genuine.
With all of this in mind, its difficult to see how any fraudster could have accessed Miss Ms 
phone to respond to the text messages. So I cannot see there is any plausible explanation 
for how anyone other than Miss M could have confirmed these payments were genuine. And 
if Miss M had not made the payments herself, its difficult to see why she would have then 
responded to the text messages Barclays sent to say the payments were legitimate. As a 
result, I find its more likely than not, on balance, that Miss M authorised the disputed 
payments. It follows that Barclays is entitled to hold her liable for them.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman