DRN-3126901
The complaint
Mr K has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund him for transactions made with 
his debit card in June 2019.
What happened
Mr K complained to Barclays in June 2019 that his debit card was missing. He claimed 
nearly £700 of transactions in the previous few days were fraudulent. Barclays sent Mr K a 
disclaimer form for completion. As Barclays never logged completion of this form, they 
closed Mr Ks complaint.
A further form was sent and filled in. Again this wasnt received and the complaint was 
closed as resolved.
It wasnt until July 2020 that Barclays properly considered Mr Ks fraud claim  including the 
revised amount of over £1,050. They turned this claim down but apologised for the service 
Mr K had received. They paid him £150 in compensation. They also closed Mr Ks account 
after giving him appropriate notice.
Mr K brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator considered the 
evidence but felt overall it was most likely Mr K had made the transactions himself.
Mr K strongly disagreed. His complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ks complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but nothing that specifically 
seems relevant in Mr Ks case.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Barclays and 
Mr K. Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 15 October 2021 but feel no need 
to rerun some of the arguments made there. The view also contained a run-down of the 
disputed transactions and their timing. I dont intend to repeat this detail either. 
Mr K disputed over £1,050 worth of individual card transactions at retailers over a nine-day 
period. At the same time, there are other transactions made with the same debit card during 
this period which Mr K hasnt disputed. Mr K believed his card was stolen and potentially 
replaced during this period.  
I find this scenario extremely unlikely. I say this because reviewing the type of transactions 
that Mr K disputed I can see a number of these were made within a short trip from Mr Ks 
home, and occasionally at places hed used the card at before and after this period.
At the time, Mr K had a balance of more than £5,000 in his current account. If, as he 
suggests, an unknown party was able to access his debit card, I have to wonder why they 
didnt immediately steal as much money as possible. In fact the card was used for normal 
daily use  often at local supermarkets and shops. 
Im always slightly wary of claiming theres a specific type of fraudulent behaviour when this 
can vary widely. But it is certainly more common for an unknown fraudster to use as much 
money as quickly as possible particularly if someone is likely to miss their card and report it 
as lost promptly. This didnt happen here.
I can also see Mr K disputed some transactions the month before. Barclays refunded these 
in full. I suggest that its likely Mr K would have been even more careful about his card in 
those circumstances.
Overall based on the evidence I believe it is more than likely Mr K authorised these 
transactions himself. I appreciate his strong denial this is what happened but I wont be 
asking Barclays to refund Mr K.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ks complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman