DRN-4338268
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Vanquis Bank Limited placed a late payment marker on her credit file.
What happened
Mrs D holds a credit account with Vanquis. She noticed that a late payment marker had 
been placed on her credit file and contacted Vanquis to query this.
Mrs S says that Vanquis told her that her continuous payment authority (CPA) of £33 wasnt 
enough to cover the amount due, and that as a result, a late payment marker had been 
applied.
Mrs S raised a complaint. She said that if shed known that her CPA payment of £33 wasnt 
enough, she wouldve paid more.
Vanquis didnt uphold the complaint. It said that Mrs S had failed to pay the minimum 
amount due, and that the late payment had been correctly reported on her credit file.
Mrs S remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said they were satisfied that Vanquis had 
provided enough information to Mrs S about what needed to be paid, and that it hadnt made 
an error when it reported the late payment.
Mrs S didnt agree. She said she hadnt missed a payment and she felt that it was unfair that 
it had been reported on her credit file in this way.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mrs Ss account and I can see that she had a CPA set up to pay £33 per 
month. A CPA is a set amount each month which is paid like a standing order from Mrs Ss 
bank account. The amount doesnt change each month depending on the minimum payment 
due, as a direct debit would.
Ive looked at the statement produced on 7 February 2023. This shows that Mrs Ss credit 
limit was £500, and that shed exceeded this by £22.09. The statement showed that the 
minimum payment due by 6 March 2023 was £40.87.
Mrs S didnt pay enough to cover the minimum payment due. Therefore, when her statement 
was produced on 7 March 2023, it was marked as being in arrears.
I appreciate that Mrs S made a payment in February 2023. However, the payment she made 
(£33) wasnt enough to meet the minimum payment due (£40.87).
I can see that Mrs S spoke to Vanquis on21 March 2023 and amended her CPA to £50. 
However, the late payment had already been incurred by this time, so amending the CPA in 
March didnt correct that.
Taking all the available information into account, Im unable to say that Vanquis made an 
error when it reported the late payment.
The late payment marker was reported because Mrs S failed to make her full minimum 
payment by the due date. Lenders are under an obligation to report a factual representation 
of a customers payment history to the credit reference agencies in order that other potential 
lenders understand the customers financial situation and ability to repay credit.
Mrs S has said that she wasnt notified that her CPA payment wouldnt be enough to cover 
the minimum payment due. However, I can see that Vanquis sent a text message to Mrs S 
two days before the minimum payment was due advising her that her CPA payment wouldnt 
be enough to cover the minimum payment. In addition to this, the minimum payment due 
was clearly shown on Mrs Ss monthly statement. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that 
Vanquis provided sufficient information to Mrs S so that she was aware of the amount she 
was required to pay.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman