DRN-4344356
The complaint
Miss Z complains about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege Car Insurance 
(UKI) handled the payments for her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Z had a motor insurance policy with UKI covering her cars. She paid monthly 
instalments for the cover using a credit agreement and she made the actual payments by 
calling UKI.
In August 2022 UKI wrote to her and told her that her policy was about to be cancelled 
because she hadnt paid her monthly premium. Miss Z says she didnt get this letter until 
early October.
In September 2022 Miss Z spoke with UKI. They discussed the policy, which was still active, 
and UKI told Miss Z she still needed to pay the final part of her premium in October. 
Miss Z said when she spoke with UKI in September, she asked it to take both of her final 
payments. She says UKI only took one payment.
In April 2023 she noticed a default notice had been applied by UKI because shed missed 
the October payment. She paid the outstanding amount and asked that UKI remove the 
default. UKI said it wouldnt be able to do this.
Miss Z remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and thought UKI had acted fairly.
Miss Z didnt accept the view and asked that her complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold Miss Zs complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss Zs complaint covers two main areas  the first is that she asked UKI to take both 
payments in September; and the second is that UKI didnt tell her about her missing 
payment, which resulted in her default.
Ive listened to the call in question between her and UKI. In it I can hear her ask UKI if she 
could make payment for this month. The payment for September is taken and UKI told her 
a further payment (her final one) would need to be made the following month. I can hear 
Miss Z confirms she understands this. 
So I dont think Miss Z asked for both payments to be taken.
I can see UKI sent letters to Miss Z about the missing payment in December and January. I 
think its fair I say UKI could have contacted Miss Z earlier, but I dont think it matters in this 
case. Miss Z has said she didnt receive either of the letters, but I cant say UKI are 
responsible for her not receiving them. 
Miss Z had entered into a credit agreement to pay for her policy and she should have kept 
herself aware of the state of her account and ensured she made payments when they were 
scheduled.
In later correspondence with this service, Miss Z said she thought her policy had been 
cancelled in August so no further payments should have been needed. But she called UKI to 
make her further payment in September, so she was clearly aware the policy was active and 
she was required to make payment. Miss Zs further comments contradict her earlier 
approach and I dont find them useful. 
It follows that I think Miss Z failed to pay her final instalment and UKI reasonably told her 
shed missed it. I cant say the failure to notice the default or receive the reminders were 
UKIs fault. So I dont uphold this complaint and Im not going to ask UKI to do anything.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman