DRN-3186491
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Ageas Insurance Limited declined their claim on their home 
insurance. 
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had a home insurance policy that covered a property Mr Hs father lived in. 
From around 2018 the property next door had significant work carried out on a new 
extension. And Mr Hs father reported strong vibrations at his home during this work. He felt 
this caused damage to the internal and external walls of his home as well as concrete paths 
and a retaining wall in the garden.
In July 2020 Mr and Mrs H made a claim under the accidental damage peril in the policy. 
Ageas sent out a surveyor and subsequently declined the claim. It said the damage was 
caused by settlement and not due to the work next door.
Mr and Mrs H didnt think this was fair and complained. They also said theyd originally been 
promised a second survey and this hadnt happened. 
Ageas didnt uphold the complaint as it said it was satisfied with its surveyors findings. It 
said Mr and Mrs H could get the opinion of a second surveyor themselves, but this wasnt 
something it would provide.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree and brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she thought Ageas 
had fairly declined the claim and it was for Mr and Mrs H to arrange a further survey if they 
felt it necessary.
 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made its for the insured to show that there has been an insured 
peril  an event thats covered under the policy. Its then for the insurer to either accept the 
claim or prove that an exclusion applies. 
Here, Mr and Mrs H claim there has been accidental damage. But Ageas has said that the 
damage has happened gradually over time and would be excluded from cover. I need to 
decide if its done enough to prove this exclusion and acted fairly by declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy includes cover for accidental damage which is described as: 
Unexpected and unintended damage caused by something sudden and external. 
However the policy goes on to explain the exclusions of this cover:
What is not insured
-movement of the land the buildings are on
-any part of the buildings moving, settling or shrinking
There is also a general policy exclusion as follows: 
Wear and Tear
The gradual deterioration of your home and contents over time, typically caused by usage,
ageing or weathering
Ageas surveyor inspected the damage to the property and concluded it had happened over 
time and was due to settlement. As there is a specific exclusion for the settling of land as 
part of the accidental damage cover, and a general policy exclusion for wear and tear, I think 
Ageas has acted fairly by declining the claim.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H would like a second surveyor to attend and carry out a report. And 
say they were told this would happen. 
Ageas has already instructed an expert to carry out a report. And Ive seen nothing to 
suggest their findings are inaccurate, so its reasonable for it to rely on that report without the 
need for a second. If Mr and Mrs H dispute the findings in that report it is for them to instruct 
a second expert. If on doing so, the findings differed from Ageas report then Id expect it to 
re-consider its position. However I think its done enough to show a policy exclusion applies, 
so I wont ask Ageas to do anything further. 
From looking at the claim notes provided by Ageas I can see it advised that Mr and Mrs H 
could appoint an expert to carry out a second report. So Ive not seen enough to show that it 
provided incorrect information about a second report being carried out.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman