DRN-2706341
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to claim payments for their buy-to-
let mortgage. As a result, missed and late payments were recorded on their credit files and 
Mr and Mrs B say this has had a significant financial and personal impact.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have a buy-to-let mortgage with Barclays. In late 2019, they took a new rate 
on the mortgage. At around the same time, they also changed their banking arrangements 
and moved their current account to a new provider. They expected their direct debits  
including the one for their mortgage payments  to be transferred smoothly.
That didnt happen and the monthly payments to Mr and Mrs Bs Barclays mortgage 
stopped. Mr and Mrs B tried to sort things out: they made phone calls to Barclays, paid by 
other means, and tried to set up a fresh direct debit. 
In early 2020, Mr and Mrs B tried to re-mortgage their residential property to release some 
equity and get a better rate. They say they were turned down because of the information 
Barclays had put on their credit files as a result of the direct debit problem. 
Barclays responded to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in April 2020. It said the rate switch was 
applied to the mortgage late, so it refunded the extra interest Mr and Mrs B had paid. It also 
said no direct debit instruction was showing up on its systems, but it could see Mr B was 
trying to sort out the problem. It apologised, arranged for the missed and late payments to be 
removed from Mr and Mrs Bs credit files, and paid them £350 by way of compensation. 
Our investigator thought Barclays had done enough to put things right, so she didnt make 
any recommendations.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept that conclusion. They still considered Barclays responsible for 
their not having been able to re-mortgage their home and the knock-on effects of that on 
their finances and health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not clear why the direct debit to pay Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage wasnt properly set up 
after Mr and Mrs B changed bank accounts and took a new rate on the mortgage. What is 
clear, though, is that Mr and Mrs B had always intended and were able to make their 
mortgage payments. Their credit files should reflect that, and I understand that they now do 
show payments were made on time for the three months or so in question.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint now is about the impact the information Barclays put on their 
credit files has had on them. They have said this was considerable  both financially and 
personally. 
Mr B sent Barclays a number of e-mails in March and April 2020 explaining the urgency of 
his situation: he was unable to raise finance because of what was on his credit file. Barclays 
didnt reply for weeks. Unfortunately, this was at around the time of the first national 
lockdown in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Barclays, in common with other banks, 
had to arrange for most of its staff to work from home almost overnight. Against this 
background, I dont find it surprising that Mr B didnt receive a reply as quickly as I might 
usually have expected.
However, Im satisfied from the records Ive seen that Barclays made a request to the 
relevant credit reference agencies on 21 April 2020 for Mr and Mrs Bs credit files to be 
amended. It sent Mr B an e-mail on 22 April 2020 confirming this, and saying that his credit 
record had been adversely affected due to a bank error. 
I would expect Mr and Mrs B to have been able to use Barclays e-mail to support their 
mortgage application. Their broker told them the same thing: he had e-mailed Mr B the 
previous week, saying the prospective lender would consider their application if either their 
credit files were updated to show no arrears, or they could provide confirmation that the 
arrears werent their fault.
Mr and Mrs B did share Barclays e-mail with their broker, but the broker has said the 
prospective lender insisted on waiting until their credit files had been updated. The broker 
has also said the application was reviewed again in early June 2020 but was still not 
accepted. This continued to be due to credit score. 
By June 2020, the missed and late mortgage payments should have come off Mr and Mrs 
Bs credit files. Barclays had made the request for that to happen six weeks earlier. And Mr 
and Mrs Bs broker has said that, some weeks before their application was reconsidered in 
June, he had a credit report without the missed and late payments showing. So I think it 
would be difficult to conclude that Mr and Mrs Bs application was turned down then as a 
result of the problem with the direct debit to Barclays and the resulting missed and late 
payments. 
I can certainly see Mr Bs point that the nature of his and Mrs Bs businesses meant that 
their financial position was badly affected as a result of Covid-19. Im also mindful that 
lenders appetite to lend changed against this background. All of this will have affected Mr 
and Mrs Bs ability to secure further borrowing. But I dont consider I can fairly hold Barclays 
responsible for that.
I also dont consider it was inappropriate for the investigator to have taken into account what 
Mr B had told his broker in his early enquiries about arranging more borrowing. He had 
expressed some concern himself about his latest dividends and accounts. His broker also 
told him in July 2020 that his most recent accounts didnt support an increased loan facility  
although they could have convinced a lender if the climate were different. In my view, this 
isnt indicative of a straightforward application which was almost certain to have been 
accepted in a different economic environment.  
Overall, I find Barclays made mistakes. It then amended Mr and Mrs Bs credit files in a 
reasonable time and provided them with confirmation it had done so, and paid them some 
compensation. In all the circumstances, I consider those were reasonable steps for it to have 
taken to put things right, and I dont require it to do or pay any more. In reaching that 
conclusion, Ive noted what Mr B has said about having to sell the property on which the 
Barclays mortgage is secured and that this will mean paying an early repayment charge  
but I find no basis in this complaint on which I can fairly require Barclays to waive that.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, in the sense that I make no order or 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman