DRN-3778920
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has not refunded him for payments he says he 
did not authorise.
What happened
Mr M holds a current account with Barclays. Between 26 March 2020 and 19 June 2020 a 
series of payments were made from Mr Ms account to various gambling websites. On 15 
July 2020 Mr M contacted Barclays to say that he had not made these payments himself.
Barclays considered what Mr M had said, but did not agree that there was any evidence to 
show that the payments were fraudulent. It thought Mr M had made the payments himself  
or otherwise allowed them to be made  so it did not agree to refund the payments to him.
In March 2022 more payments were made from Mr Ms account to a gambling website. Mr M 
contacted Barclays to say that he had not made these payments. Initially, Barclays refunded 
the money to him while it investigated his concerns. But on looking into what had happened 
Barclays once again determined that there was no evidence these payments were 
fraudulent, so it re-debited the amounts from Mr Ms account.
Mr M was unhappy with what Barclays had done regarding both his fraud claim in 2020 and 
in 2022. But Barclays did not think it had done anything wrong, it maintained that the 
evidence showed that Mr M had likely authorised the payments himself or allowed them to 
be made.
Mr M disagreed, so he referred his complaint to our service. He says that at least some of 
the payments were made from the UK, and he lives overseas and has not been back to the 
UK in some time. Mr M also says that one of the websites used is blocked in the country he 
lives in, so he says he could not have made the payments himself.
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened. Overall, they felt that Barclays had 
been reasonable to hold Mr M liable for the payments.
Mr M did not agree, so this case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for the same 
reasons.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Mr M is responsible for any payments that he has authorised (either by making them himself 
or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. So, the 
key question here is whether Barclays has acted fairly in concluding that Mr M did authorise 
the disputed payments.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ms genuine card details were used 
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable Barclays to hold him liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr M consented to the 
payments being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that Mr M 
authorised the transactions. 
I say this because Barclays has provided evidence to show that disputed payments from 
2020 were made from the country where Mr M lives using his card details. During that period 
the evidence also shows that Mr M was regularly logging into online banking, and from the 
same IP address as the disputed payments were made from. So a fraudster would have to 
not only have access to Mr Ms card details, but also to his online banking details. And no 
plausible explanation has been provided as to how those details could have been 
compromised. 
Disputed payments in 2022 do appear to have been made from the UK, but that is not 
enough, on its own, to make me think that Mr M did not authorise these payments given the 
other evidence Ive seen. Specifically, I note that prior to the period of disputed payments in 
2022 Mr M had made some smaller transactions to the same gambling website, and had 
winnings from that website deposited into his account. 
I also note that, as per the final response letter Barclays sent to Mr M in April 2022, the 
gambling website involved here has told Barclays that Mr Ms personal details were used to 
open the gambling account. And in any case, a fraudster using stolen card details for 
gambling would be very unusual, particularly when it is general practice for gambling 
retailers to require that any winnings are paid back into the account the gambling was 
funded from. So its difficult to see how a fraudster would benefit here. 
I appreciate that Mr M has said online gambling is illegal in the country where he lives, but 
Ive not seen anything to make me think that it would be impossible to access gambling sites 
for that country. And Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that, on balance, its more 
likely that Mr M authorised the disputed payments. It follows that Barclays is entitled to hold 
him liable for them.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr M, but I hope he will understand the reasons for 
my decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman