DRN-1530722
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy at the same time as they applied to re-mortgage in 2001 
in one of the banks branches. The cover gave them accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover. They paid a monthly amount for the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs R 
disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In response to the adjudicators view Mr and Mrs R said they felt that we were siding with the 
bank. I have weighed up the available evidence from both sides, and as some of it is 
incomplete my decision is based on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I 
consider is most likely given the evidence we do have and what we know about how Lloyds 
sold PPI at the time. As an independent and impartial organisation we dont act on behalf of 
either consumer or banks - theres no benefit for us to find in the favour of one party over the 
other.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs R say they were told they had to have PPI to get the mortgage. The bank 
disputes this. I cant know what was discussed in the meeting but Ive thought carefully about 
Mr and Mrs Rs comments and looked at the paperwork from the sale. I think it was clear the 
PPI was a separate, optional product. I say this as the options to select or decline PPI were 
set out with equal prominence on the mortgage application form  and Mr and Mrs R 
indicated that they wanted it. They then signed a separate PPI application form and direct 
debit mandate. And there was nothing on the forms that I think could reasonably have led 
them to believe the PPI was mandatory. So, on balance, I think Lloyds made it clear that the 
PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs R chose to take it out. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances I think that it was. 
Mr R told us he was entitled to 12 months full pay if he was sick. This is an unusually high 
level of sick pay. I can see from the mortgage application form Mr R had been in his job for 
less than a year at the time. So I dont think I can rely on his statement without some supporting documentation. Mr R is trying to remember something from nearly 20 years ago, 
so its possible hes honestly mistaken. This means I need to decide if what hes said is more 
likely than not. Given Mr Rs role and time in job I dont think its safe to assume Mr R had 
such a generous sick pay benefit that he had no need for PPI. Plus, the PPI wouldve paid 
out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 months for each successful accident, 
sickness or unemployment claim. It wouldve protected any lump sum redundancy payment 
giving increased financial security. Mrs R cant recall her sick pay entitlement.
Mr and Mrs R told us they had savings worth over 12 months salary from a 
previous redundancy. They havent been able to provide evidence to support this. On the 
questionnaire they completed for the bank they said they had no savings at the time of the 
sale. And their mortgage application form shows they were re-mortgaging to consolidate 
other loan and credit card debts. So, on balance, I cant safely conclude they had sufficient  
savings not to need PPI. Plus, the PPI would have allowed them to use any savings they did 
have to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact for their future 
needs. They were borrowing a large sum over a long period, secured on their home. And the 
effects of not keeping up the repayments could have been serious for them. So, overall, I 
think the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs R if they were sick or lost their job(s). 
Its possible Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs R all the information they needed before deciding 
to buy PPI. I dont know at what point the cost was made clear, but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And I dont know that the bank pointed out 
the main things the policy didnt cover. But they dont appear to have been affected by any of 
the main exclusions. So I dont think better information about the PPI wouldve changed their 
mind about buying it.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs R have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman