DRN-3379264
The complaint
Miss F was unhappy with the delays and customer service she experienced during a claim 
with Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) under her home insurance policy. Miss F had 
representation during the claim, but for ease and simplicity I will only refer to Miss F in my 
decision.
What happened
Miss F made a claim to Aviva when her garage door broke down due to the electric roller 
shutter colliding with an object that was blocking the movement. Aviva appointed its 
approved contractor to manage the claim  the damage was assessed, and Miss F was 
asked to pay the £300 policy excess.
The damage was assessed on 21 September and an initial date for a repair was given of 19 
October; the repair would possibly need a new garage door. The repair date was re-
scheduled to 26 November due to the lead times for a new garage door to be supplied.
Miss F thought a ten-week repair time was totally unacceptable, especially when the heavy 
nature of her garage door meant she couldnt open it manually. She said this posed safety 
issues as the gas boiler was housed in the garage. Aviva said the delay was outside of its 
control and was due to the lead times for the door with the manufacturer.
As Miss F was unhappy with the delays, she appointed her own contractor who was able to 
repair the door by replacing three broken plastic brackets. She cancelled her claim with 
Aviva, and it agreed to refund her the £300 excess. Aviva initially said Miss F would need to 
pay a cancellation fee of circa £750 to its contractor, as the contractor had already ordered 
the new door. Aviva has confirmed to our service, that in the end it chose not to ask Miss F 
to reimburse this cost, and the cancellation fee was charged to Aviva.
Miss F wants to be compensated for the poor handling of the complaint. She doesnt think 
Aviva has provided an efficient solution to her claim  she thinks Aviva has shown little 
regard for the environment by replacing the door when a simpler solution was available by 
replacing the broken plastic brackets. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought Aviva had met the terms 
and conditions of its policy by intending to replace the broken door and she didnt think the 
timescales could be accelerated. Miss F disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see Miss F managed to fix her garage door using her own contractor far quicker than what 
Avivas contractor had scheduled to do. However, whilst I think Avivas contractor couldve 
communicated better with Miss F, I dont think the course of action Aviva has taken is 
unreasonable and I dont think Miss F has been penalised by its actions. So, I dont uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of the complaint is that Miss F thinks Aviva shouldve provided a better / quicker 
solution to her broken garage door, such as that provided by her own contractor. Miss F 
wouldve been without access to her utilities in her garage had she not arranged a temporary 
repair.
Ive considered what Avivas contractor said about the route it chose to go to rectify the 
damaged garage door. Its technical manager said that at the time of survey not only were 
the brackets damaged but also the motor wasnt functioning. He said that motors on roller 
garage doors are internal and often difficult to repair in isolation and that was the reason for 
the proposal to replace the door.
I appreciate that Miss F thinks the repairs couldve been done quicker. However, I think its 
clear that the repairs her contractor did only provided a temporary fix  her contractor 
informed her to only use the doors in an emergency and with extreme caution whilst the 
temporary fix was in place.
I think the approach Aviva has taken is reasonable. Aviva would be responsible for the 
workmanship carried out by its contractors, so it would want to ensure any repairs done 
would be longstanding in nature. I dont think it could guarantee a repair such as the 
temporary fix completed by Miss Fs own contractor. I think Aviva has used the survey to 
inform a course of action which it thinks would provide a reliable solution. I think this is a fair 
approach. The approach is also consistent with the policy terms and conditions which allow 
Aviva to choose how it rectifies any damage.
I appreciate the install of the new door was delayed, but this was communicated to Miss F 
and was due to the lead time on the door itself. Aviva or their contractor couldnt be expected 
to stock all replacement doors, so it is reliant on the manufacturer to produce the door. I 
dont think its fair to hold Aviva to account for something that is largely outside of its control.
I do appreciate Miss F was anxious not been able to access her utilities in her garage. 
However, Aviva didnt cause the damage to the door, so I dont think its fair to blame them 
for this. Ive also noted the terms and conditions doesnt provide for a temporary fix, so Aviva 
shouldnt have been expected to provide this.
However, I do think Avivas contractor couldve communicated better with Miss F to explain 
the observations from the survey and explain why it had chosen to replace the door, rather 
than do a fix like Miss Fs own contractor. It couldve also explained to Miss F that she could 
deploy her own contractor to see if an interim solution was available to allow her access to 
her garage short term.
Aviva has ensured Miss F hasnt been charged a cancellation fee on the door. So, in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I think this is a fair way to resolve this complaint and I dont 
think it would be reasonable to ask Aviva to compensate Miss F further.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 Pete Averill
Ombudsman