DRN-4160301
The complaint
Mr S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc has mismanaged his credit card account and 
applied unfair charges.
What happened
Mr S says Capital One stopped sending him account statements, but he didnt have online 
access to his account. He says he has been charged about £500 which he was unaware of, 
and unfair account charges have been applied to his account. Mr S would like £5,000 
compensation for what has taken place and for all charges refunded as well as the account 
closed.
Capital One says the account was opened in 2018 and says it has correctly applied late 
payment fees as Mr S hasnt made required monthly payments since about November 2022. 
It says it sent a number of letters to Mr S about his account and says there was a direct debit 
in place to make a monthly repayment. Capital One says it spoke to Mr S in 2021 about a 
disputed transaction but he didnt wish to log a fraud complaint.
Mr S brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Mr S ought to have told Capital One he wasnt receiving account 
statements some time before he did and that he must have been aware of the account 
balance when he called it about the disputed transaction.
Mr S doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I can see Mr S agreed to when the 
account was opened in February 2018. Those terms and conditions make clear that Mr S is 
required to make a monthly repayment and that charges will be added if not. I can see that 
for some time Mr S had in place a direct debit but that appeared to stop in 2022. I cant see 
Mr S made required payments and so it follows that I dont think Capital One acted unfairly 
or made a mistake by applying charges which I find were in line with those agreed accounts 
terms and conditions.
I appreciate Mr S says he didnt receive statements and questions what the credit card 
payments were for. I make clear to Mr S that I find this was his account and his responsibility 
to manage it. I would have expected Mr S to have told Capital One in 2018 or whenever he 
says he didnt receive account statements that he wasnt receiving them. And I would have 
expected Mr S to have been aware of the payments his credit card account was being used 
for. I cant see how Capital One would have been able to set up a direct debit without Mr S 
authorising it or setting it up himself. I cant fairly hold Capital One responsible for any issues 
with a payment or a direct debit.
I can see from Capital Ones records that Mr S called it in 2021 about a disputed transaction 
but the record says Mr S didnt wish to raise a fraud claim. I dont think Mr S has provided 
details of that issue, but I think it clear that Mr S must have been aware of a balance on his 
credit card account. And I would have expected him to either have paid that balance in line 
with account terms and conditions or raise a fraud dispute if he was unaware of it. I cant see 
that Mr S did anything about his account until early 2023.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr Ss account balance is his responsibility and that any charges 
have been correctly added in line with terms and conditions. It follows that I cant fairly order 
Capital One write off any account balance and/or refund any charges. I cant fairly order that 
Capital One pay Mr S the compensation he would like. And I have made clear that I think Mr 
S should have resolved the issue of the statements when the account was opened, but in 
any event ought to have been aware of payments made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman