DRN-1387884
The complaint 
Mr M complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr M was given four loans by Mr Lender between June 2016 and December 2017. The first 
three loans were repayable in six monthly instalments, with the final loan being repaid over a 
12 month period. Each of Mr M's loans have been fully repaid and a summary of his 
borrowing from Mr Lender is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 07/06/2016 28/11/2016 £  250
2 09/12/2016 26/05/2017 £  300
3 26/05/2017 22/12/2017 £  1,000
4 22/12/2017 28/01/2019 £  1,000
Mr M's complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didn't think Mr Lender 
had been wrong to give the first two loans to Mr M. But he didn't think the last two loans 
should have been agreed. So he asked Mr Lender to pay Mr M some compensation.
Mr Lender didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasn't been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr M accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Mr Lender did some checks before it lent to Mr M. It asked him for details of his income, and 
his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before agreeing the loans. Ive seen a 
summary of those checks and I dont think they showed anything that should have caused 
additional concerns to Mr Lender.
I think that the checks Mr Lender did before agreeing the first two loans were proportionate. 
The amounts that Mr M needed to repay were small compared with the disposable income 
hed declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask him for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first two loans. 
But things changed markedly when Mr M asked for his third loan. The amount he asked to 
borrow was more than three times larger than his second loan, and so the repayments now 
formed a significant part of his normal income. Given the size of those repayments I don't 
think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to take any comfort from the disposable income that 
Mr M declared. Given the proportion of Mr M's income taken by the repayment, an amount 
that he would need to pay for the next six months, I don't think it was reasonable for 
Mr Lender to conclude that Mr M could sustainably afford those repayments. So I don't think 
it should have given him this loan. 
And looking at the overall pattern of Mr M's borrowing history with Mr Lender I don't think the 
final loan should have been agreed either. I think by then the lender should reasonably have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
The amount Mr M asked to borrow on loan 4 remained at the same amount as loan 3. And 
although Mr M was now taking this loan over 12 months meaning his monthly repayments 
were reduced, he was of course entering into a commitment for a significant period of time.By now Mr M had been borrowing, with barely any break, from Mr Lender for more than 
18 months. Over that time he wasn't making any inroads into the amount he owed 
Mr Lender. I think Mr Lender should have realised that it was likely Mr M was dependent on 
its lending  and his indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I think that Mr M lost out because Mr Lender  agreed to give him loan 4 because 
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him to 
continue to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time. The cumulative length of time he'd been borrowing from Mr Lender was likely to have 
had negative implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in 
the market for these high-cost loans.
So I don't think Mr Lender should have agreed to give the last two loans to Mr M. Mr Lender 
needs to pay him some compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think Mr Lender should have agreed to give Mr M loan 3 or loan 4. So for each of 
those loans Mr Lender should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr M on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to loan 3
The length of his borrowing relationship means any information recorded about loan 
4 is adverse. So all entries about loan 4 should be removed from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Ms complaint and direct PDL Finance Limited to 
put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman