DRN-3859316
The complaint
U, a limited company, complains about information supplied by Funding Circle Ltd in the 
course of its administration of a peer-to-peer loan. U is represented by a director, Ms J, 
though for ease of reading I shall refer to her actions as those of U.
What happened
In 2018, U took out a loan arranged through Funding Circle, a peer-to-peer lending platform. 
According to the loan agreement, U borrowed £99,640 (including a loan completion fee of 
£5,640), at an interest rate of 16.60%. The loan was to be repaid over 48 monthly payments 
of £2,854.54.
Around October 2020, U required loan statements for audit purposes. U felt that the 
information supplied on the statements was inadequate for its auditors requirements, as it 
didnt contain details of the outstanding balance. As I understand it, this was a change from 
Funding Circles previous position.
U said that for the purposes of transparency, Funding Circle should include the correct 
outstanding balance on all statements. U was further dissatisfied that information Funding 
Circle sent separately in February 2021 overstated the balance by nearly £7,000.
Due to its dissatisfaction and what it suggested was fraudulent activity, U says it spent time 
and effort in corresponding with Funding Circle to put things right, and that because Funding 
Circle didnt provide satisfactory responses, U stopped making loan payments.. 
In response Funding Circle acknowledged that on multiple occasions, it failed to provide 
account statements or the information U had requested, instead issuing documents U hadnt 
asked for. Funding Circle said that it was in the process of restoring the principal balance 
figure to its statements, and was also looking into reintroducing the date on account 
statements, which was also part of Us concern.
Recognising the delays and difficulties its actions had caused, Funding Circle apologised. It 
noted that because U had stopped paying, the account was in arrears. To settle matters, 
Funding Circle proposed that  subject to U repaying the outstanding arrears sum  it would 
waive interest on the arrears; an amount equating to £308.40.
Our investigator was satisfied Funding Circle had calculated the loan balance and payments 
correctly, and applied these to the account when they were made. She didnt think it was for 
us to set out how Funding Circle should produce account statements. The investigator felt 
there was a reasonable explanation for the balance discrepancy between Us calculations 
and Funding Circles statements. And while she noted the arrears on the loan account she 
considered it reasonable that Funding Circle had offered to waive the additional interest on 
these sums. 
U didnt accept the investigators conclusions and matters have been passed to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Us need to have statements that comply with its auditors requirements, and 
why it would be useful for Funding Circle to produce them as per Us request. That doesnt 
mean it was wrong for Funding Circle to produce statements in the format it did  this type of 
borrowing isnt subject to the same regulatory requirements as, say, lending regulated under 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. But there are some general principles that apply to all 
regulated firms; notably that a firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is fair, clear and not 
misleading.
The Lending Standards Boards Standards of Lending Practice for business customers 
outlines what I consider to be good industry practice in this respect. It says lenders should 
respond to requests from their customers in an open and transparent manner, in relation to 
information it holds about the customers products...they should be provided with sufficient 
amount of information to answer their query in an open and transparent wayexamples may 
include repayment history.
Neither of these things oblige Funding Circle to set out its statements in the customers 
preferred format. In the absence of a standard form for account statements, it is open to 
Funding Circle to comply with Us request in line with these general obligations by 
communicating the payment history and loan balance in separate correspondence. I fully 
understand the convenience of doing so in a combined statement, but it isnt inherently 
unfair not to do this. Nevertheless, Im pleased to see that Funding Circle appears to have 
taken on board feedback from U and other customers in relation to restoring what is 
doubtless helpful information to the account statements it issues.
Of course, one of the key obligations is that the information supplied is not misleading. It is 
acknowledged fact that Funding Circles email in February 2021 contained the wrong 
balance. I find no evidence to support Us contention that this amounts to fraud on Funding 
Circles part. This was not a demand for payment, nor does it appear to be an attempt to 
deceive U in order to obtain a higher amount than was due. After all, in October 2020 
Funding Circle had sent U a similar email showing a lower balance.
It seems to me that the most likely explanation here is that Funding Circles February 2021 
email stated the remaining amount due under the loan agreement rather than the running 
total under the usual amortisation schedule. That should not have happened, and no doubt 
added to Us sense of frustration and annoyance.
I consider this falls quite some way short of fraud as suggested by U. But it is only right that 
Funding Circle recognises the frustration and annoyance caused by its mishandling of Us 
requests. In my opinion the proposal equating to £308.40 was a fair way to reflect this. I 
appreciate Funding Circles original proposal was contingent on U clearing arrears by a 
specified date. However, I dont see that the continued existence of such arrears changes 
the inconvenience caused to U by Funding Circles acknowledged communication 
shortcomings.
I can also understand that this sense of frustration led U to suspend loan payments. While I 
understand the reasons behind this, the consequences of non-payment can be significant. 
There was nothing to suggest that U might genuinely have believed the loan to have been 
fully repaid, or that no further payments were due.As I understand it, on 26 August 2021 U brought the missed payments up to date with a 
lump sum payment, but has paid no further sums to towards the balance. The contractual 
obligation to maintain payments remained in place, and I see no proper basis to say Funding 
Circle was acting unreasonably in continuing to seek repayment of money that wasnt in 
dispute.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, my final decision is that to settle this complaint, Funding 
Circle Limited should credit Us loan account with the £308.40 it previously proposed. I dont 
require Funding Circle to take any further action in relation to the defaulting of Us account, 
or to make any direction that affects Funding Circles right to pursue the account balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J, on behalf of 
U, to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman