DRN-4487067
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Zopa Bank Limited irresponsibly provided her with a credit card 
account she couldnt afford.
What happened
In January 2023, Zopa opened a credit card account for Mrs P with a credit limit of £1,200. 
Later in 2023, Mrs P complained to Zopa that it shouldnt have opened the credit card 
account as it was unaffordable for her. When Zopa told Mrs P it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong, she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and ultimately recommended that it should be 
upheld. They felt the credit was likely to be unaffordable for Mrs P based on her 
circumstances at the time of her application and that Zopa should have discovered this.       
Zopa didnt agree with the investigators findings, so the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I confirm that I broadly agree with the investigators findings on Zopas decision to lend to 
Mrs P in January 2023 and their reasoning. In summary, Im satisfied that the regulators 
rules and guidance at the time meant Zopa needed to assess whether Mrs P would be able 
to afford and sustainably repay the lending taking account of factors such as her income. 
The checks needed to be proportionate bearing in mind things like the amount of credit, the 
cost and Mrs Ps circumstances.
In applying for the account, Mrs Ps declared her annual income to be £38,000 a year. She 
said she was a homeowner with a mortgage and that her housing costs were £555 a month. 
Zopa says this information, combined with that obtained from the credit reference agency 
(CRA) it instructed, meant its lending criteria were met and that Mrs P could have the credit.
From this, its clear that Zopa carried out affordability checks to some extent at least. But I 
dont believe those checks were sufficient in the circumstances. I say that because the 
checks the CRA performed showed no evidence of a current account or of a mortgage 
account in Mrs Ps name. Zopa knew she had a mortgage because shed declared this in her 
application. I cant see that Zopa queried or investigated this discrepancy before providing 
the credit it did, and so I believe it should have carried out more checks at that stage. 
Ive thought about what Zopa likely would have discovered had it carried out further checks 
of Mrs Ps financial situation in January 2023. Ive done that with the aid of additional 
information from Mrs P, now provided to Zopa by the investigator, and including bank 
account details, a credit report and copy payslips and a P60.    
Among other things, the information shows Mrs Ps income was significantly lower than 
shed originally declared, at around £20,000 a year as opposed to £38,000. Mrs P held a 
joint bank account and only when the other account holders income was added to hers was 
her income closer to the £38,000 shed declared. That might explain why shed declared the 
figure she did in applying for the account.
I note that Mrs Ps actual income meant she wasnt eligible for an account with a credit limit 
of £1,200 according to Zopas lending criteria. So, its unlikely shed have obtained the 
account for those reasons.     
A lending decision along those lines would tend to be supported by the fact that Mrs P would 
have had no disposable income available to repay the card given her contribution to a joint 
mortgage, household bills and childcare costs and other credit commitments. Im satisfied all 
of this combined amounted to more than Mrs Ps disposable income.
Taking everything into account, I cant see that Zopa carried out proportionate checks to 
determine the affordability of its lending. Mrs Ps circumstances in January 2023 indicate to 
me that the lending wasnt affordable for her, so I think shes lost out because of Zopas 
actions. 
It follows that Zopa should put things right for Mrs P.
Putting things right
Zopa should put things right for Mrs P from the start of the credit card account, albeit shes 
had the benefit of the money borrowed and so may need to repay the principal amounts. So, 
Zopa should: 
Rework the credit card account balance to ensure that all the interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from the start are removed.
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments have been 
made, Zopa should contact Mrs P to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this.
If no outstanding balance remains, any relevant adverse information should be 
removed from the credit file. 
And
 
If the refund means theres no remaining balance on the account, any extra should 
be treated as overpayments and returned to Mrs P. 
And
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to take off tax from this interest. Zopa must give 
Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. I require Zopa Bank Limited to put things right 
for Mrs P as explained above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman