DRN-4390623
The complaint
Miss A complains that Santander UK Plc isnt providing her with the support she needs given 
her disability.
What happened
Miss A has explained that she suffers from long Covid and struggles to remember her PIN 
for her card. This has meant she has needed to request new PINs and has struggled to use 
her card while out and needed to return home for cash. Miss A says that another bank has 
provided her with a card that doesnt have a PIN and instead she signs for her purchases. 
She thinks that Santander should provide her with the same facility or something similar that 
would allow her to use her card without the need for remembering a PIN.
Santander issued a final response letter dated 28 September 2022. It said that it didnt have 
facilities that would bypass the card PIN but said that the PIN can be reviewed on the Online 
Banking App. It acknowledged the inconvenience of visiting a branch but said that staff 
would be able to assist with transactions and explained the available banking platforms. It 
also said that Miss A could add someone to her account as a trustee.
Miss A wasnt satisfied with Santanders response. She said that solutions offered involving 
remembering other passcodes and passwords just gave rise to the same issues she was 
complaining about. She said she had visited a branch, but this was a long journey and she 
had to spend a long time in branch which was exhausting.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that Santander had outlined ways 
Miss A could retrieve her PIN but noted these may not be suitable. He noted there were 
other options available such as contactless or paying with a smartphone and said that as 
Santander had explained it wasnt able to provide a card that didnt have a PIN he thought 
the alternative solutions offered were reasonable.
Miss A said she had previously experienced fraud on her account and so wouldnt use online 
banking and that she didnt have a smartphone. She said she was being discriminated 
against as she wasnt being provided a service that she needed given her disability and 
reiterated that another bank had provided a reasonable solution.
This case was passed to an ombudsman for a decision. Following this, further questions 
were put to Santander, and it responded to say that if a chip and PIN card isnt suitable for a 
customer there is the option of a chip and signature card. It also noted that Miss A could 
register for voice ID for telephone banking which would mean no PIN was required.
Miss A said she would like to have a chip and signature card on her account and said she 
should have been offered this sooner. She thought she should be paid compensation as her 
request wasnt an unreasonable one. She explained she has been able to register for voice 
ID but that it was very sensitive and didnt work if she had a cough or chest infection, which 
given her condition was a significant issue and meant she couldnt always use this.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, the content of which is set out below.
I am sorry to hear of the health issues Miss A is experiencing and I can understand how 
upsetting it must be to have to struggle with memory loss. I appreciate that remembering a 
PIN causes her issues and I do not underestimate the frustration she must feel when trying 
to make purchases and the embarrassment this can cause if she is unable to continue with 
her purchase. For me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Santander 
had done something wrong or not treated her fairly.
I note Miss A has said she feels Santander has discriminated against her. While we take any 
allegation of discrimination seriously, I should first explain that we are an informal dispute 
resolution service, meaning we dont have the power to decide whether or not Santander is 
in breach of the Equality Act 2010, as only a court has the power to do this. What we can do 
is take relevant law and regulation into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of a complaint.
In this case Miss A explained her situation to Santander and it provided her with alternative 
ways of accessing her PIN. However, these werent suitable for her. Santander issued a final 
response letter in September 2022 saying that it didnt have facilities that would bypass the 
PIN  a point it made on other occasions in response to this investigation. However, after 
further questions were raised, Santander said that there was an option of a chip and 
signature card for customers for whom a chip and PIN wasnt suitable.
Miss A had been asking for a card where she could sign for purchases rather than have to 
remember a PIN and had made it clear to Santander why this was needed. Therefore, I find 
that Santander should have offered Miss A the chip and signature card when she first raised 
this issue. We have explained this option to Miss A and she has said that she would like to 
have this set up on her account. Given this I find it reasonable that Santander should work 
with Miss A to set this up on her account.
Miss A has been caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience as the offer of the chip 
and signature account wasnt made when she first explained her circumstances. Santander 
continued to say there was no way to bypass the PIN which now appears to be incorrect. 
Had Miss A been offered the chip and signature account when she first raised her complaint, 
this issue is likely to have been resolved and she would have been prevented further 
inconvenience, embarrassment and distress. Because of this I find that Santander should 
pay Miss A compensation.
 
In assessing compensation, I have taken into account the time Miss A has spent on this 
issue and the delay in Santander saying a chip and signature account is available as well as 
the upset and distress the issue has caused her. Against this I have also considered that 
Santander did offer other alternatives and that Miss A did have another card provided from 
another finance provider that she could use. Based on this I think compensation of £750 is 
reasonable in this case.
Santander had previously explained that Miss A could register for voice ID which would 
mean she didnt need to use a PIN for telephone banking. I appreciate that Miss A 
experienced issues setting this up but has now been able to do so. I note Miss As 
comments about the sensitivity of the system and why this is a particular issue to her. But I 
also accept the system will need to be sensitive to ensure its security. So, while I note the 
comment Miss A has made about voice ID I do not require Santander to pay any further 
compensation in regard to this aspect of the complaint.Miss A said that a key point hadnt been addressed in my provisional decision. That is that 
Santander had previously offered a chip and sign facility to all customers prior to the current 
chip and sign service and so she wasnt asking for a new service to be provided and her 
request should never have been refused. She said that had she not had use of another 
credit card then she wouldnt have been able to live independently or conduct basic living 
tasks. She said that using her credit card caused inconvenience and that she took offence at 
Santanders statement that she could add a trustee to her account. Given the issues she 
thought she should be paid £850 compensation. 
Santander accepted my provisional decision and said feedback would be provided. It 
apologised for the delay and the upset it had caused to Miss A. It said its Specialist Support 
Team had been asked to order the card for Miss A, but it had confirmed that this process 
can only take place over the phone or via a branch and asked that we make Miss A aware of 
this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how upsetting Miss As experience has been and I do not underestimate the 
frustration, upset and embarrassment she has experienced when not being able to complete 
purchases due to not being able to remember her PIN. As I set out in my provisional 
decision, we dont have the power to decide whether or not Santander is in breach of the 
Equality Act 2010, as only a court has the power to do this. But I have taken the relevant law 
and regulation into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
Miss As complaint was that she wasnt provided with a card where she could sign for 
purchases rather than have to remember a PIN. Santander has said this option is available 
and Miss A has said that she would like to have this set up on her account. I note 
Santanders comment that this can only happen over the phone or in branch and so the next 
steps are for Miss A to contact Santander and I would then expect it to take the required 
action to make this operational for Miss A. 
Miss A has said the option of a chip and sign account was previously available and so she 
wasnt asking for a new service. I note the point made but I do not find that this changes my 
decision as I considered that Miss A wasnt provided with a service that was available when 
she requested it and was provided incorrect information about this.  
As I explained in my provisional decision, there were unnecessary delays in the offer of the 
chip and signature account being made which meant that Miss A had an extended period 
during which she suffered inconvenience, distress an embarrassment. I understand Miss As 
comment that had she not had the use of a credit card she wouldnt have been able to 
continue with her day-to-day tasks, but I can only consider what happened in this complaint 
rather than what might have happened if her situation had been different. 
I understand that Miss A feels compensation of £850 should be paid. I note the offence she 
was caused by being told she could have a trustee added to her account and while I 
understand why this was upsetting, I accept Santander were trying to assist Miss A. I have 
also considered Miss As comment about the inconvenience caused by using her credit card 
which appears to relate to making her payments on the card. However, taking all of the 
above into account, I find that compensation of £750 is reasonable in this case. As I set out 
in my provisional decision this amount reflects the upset and inconvenience caused by the 
delay in the chip and signature card being offered and the time Miss A has spent dealing with this issue. 
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should work with Miss A to set up a chip and signature card on her 
account. It has explained that this can only happen over the phone or in branch so Miss A 
should contact it about this, and Santander should then take the required action to make this 
operational for Miss A.  
Santander should also pay Miss A £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
she has been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc should take the actions 
set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman