DRN-2834510
The complaint
Ms M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) caused damage to her property and 
provided poor customer service, following a claim under her home emergency insurance. 
  
What happened
 Ms M noticed water dripping through her ceiling and contacted BG to make a claim. It sent 
an engineer who assessed the damage and diagnosed that the water tank needed to be 
replaced. During the engineers initial inspection, Ms M said that he didnt use crawl boards 
and whilst he was in the room, she noticed that the ceiling had become bowed and split. 
Ms M immediately reported this to the engineer who inspected the damage and denied 
responsibility for causing it. He said that the joists must be damaged. Ms M took photos of 
the joists as she said that they were not damaged and reported the matter to BG. 
BG said that its engineer wasnt responsible for the damage as he had carried out the 
necessary repairs, without stepping where he shouldnt have and causing damage to the 
ceiling. 
Ms M complained again that the water tank hadnt been installed correctly. BG did inspect 
the tank and found that it had been. 
Ms M was still unhappy and raised a complaint with this service. One of our investigators 
considered her complaint and didnt uphold it. She said that due to the evidence, she 
couldnt agree that the engineer was the actual cause of the damage to the ceiling. She was 
persuaded that the bow and split that happened in the ceiling was due to the escape of 
water. So, there was nothing further she could reasonably ask BG to do. 
Ms M didnt agree with our investigator. She provided a floor plan and photos to show that 
the damage to the ceiling was close to where the water tank was located. The damage 
occurred between the joists in the direction where the engineer had entered. And as the 
escape of water had been minimal, there was no build-up of water to have caused the 
damage. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 12 May 2021 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 11 
June 2021. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
The main issues here are:
Did the engineer cause the damage?
Had the joists been previously damaged. 
Did BG investigate the damage?
I have looked at the timeline of events leading up to the ceiling becoming damaged and Ms 
M reporting it:
Ms M contacted BG when she found that she had a leak coming through her ceiling.
BG sent an engineer who proceeded to inspect the water tank. 
Ms M said the engineer entered the room where the tank was located. She believed 
that he must have stepped or knelt between the joists, as the ceiling split and bowed.
Ms M sees the damaged ceiling and immediately reports this to the engineer and 
soon afterwards to BG. 
BG said that its engineer had simply carried out the repair as he was instructed to and at no 
point did he step on the ceiling below. Its engineer also said that the area where the tank 
was located had no pipework and he wouldnt have gone there. Also, he said that the joists 
were in poor condition, although BG accepted that it had no structural knowledge of this. 
BG has said that the joists were damaged either due to wear and tear or because of the 
leak. It provided photos in support of this. Ms M also provided photos of the area when the 
leak was first discovered, photos of the damaged ceiling as well as photos of the joists. She 
said that the area wasnt damaged badly and describes the leak as being minimal. She also 
said that the joists were in good condition. 
I have reviewed the photographs provided by both parties and it does appear that the joists 
were undamaged. As Ms M said that the leak was minimal, I think its more likely than not 
that there was minimal water as if there had been a lot, I wouldve expected to see this on 
the joist. 
Having considered the timeline, the evidence and that Ms M said that the engineer entered 
the room to inspect the water tank by himself and without crawl boards. I think on balance, 
its likely that the damage was caused by the engineer either stepping or kneeling on to the 
ceiling. 
Ms M said that as soon as she saw the damage to the ceiling, she told the engineer and 
soon afterwards reported this to BG. She said that the agent she spoke to was rude and 
dismissive and that BG didnt investigate the damage or how it was caused. She also 
produced a floorplan showing where the damage happened and where the water tank was 
located.
BG said that as its engineer hadnt been in the area where the damage was, he couldnt 
have been responsible. From the complaint notes (as the call wasnt recorded) BG didnt 
attend Ms Ms home to inspect the damage. As BG had acknowledged that Ms M 
complained about the damage, I think it wouldve been reasonable for BG to have investigated the damage further. From what I can see, apart from one telephone call no 
further investigation was carried out. 
Ms M provided a floorplan of the layout of the room. It shows the site of the damage and the 
location of the water tank as well as the entry point into the room. BG has said that because 
there was no pipework in that area, then its engineer wouldnt have been over there. But 
from the floorplan (which BG has confirmed its not in a position to dispute its accuracy) it 
shows that the only way for the engineer to access the tank would be to walk that way 
especially as Ms M said that tank was in the eves. Im satisfied that the engineer wouldve 
had to have been in the area in order to carry out the repair.
In the circumstances, I think that its fair that BG ought to put matters right, by BG repairing 
the ceiling.  Ms M describes the stress of being left with a damaged ceiling and no means to 
pay for it. I think that Ms M wouldve been inconvenienced, and I think that its reasonable for 
BG to acknowledge the level of distress and inconvenience caused. So, I think its fair that 
BG pay £100 compensation for this. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms M accepted my provisional decision but wanted assurance that the repairs would be 
carried out properly. 
BG said that it was extremely disappointed by the provisional decision as it held BG 
accountable for repairing the ceiling without any evidence to support, that its engineer 
caused the damage. It reiterated its position that the engineer had moved the water tank, not 
stepped on the ceiling and had used crawl boards. Further the engineer advised that the 
damage ceiling was in an area where no pipes were, and he wouldnt have been over there. 
Finally, BG said that it should only be responsible for repairing the ceiling and not painting it 
as Ms M had no evidence to support her case. It also made no mention as to the amount of 
compensation proposed.
I understand that BG couldnt dispute the floorplan that Ms M produced. So, it hasnt 
provided any other evidence that could dispute Ms Ms account regarding the floorplan and 
her account of the engineer entering the area without crawl boards when he carried out his 
initial inspection.
In addition, the timeline of the event shows that there was a short time frame from the 
engineer entering the area to when Ms M notified both the engineer and then BG about the 
damage. I think on balance that it is likely that the damage was caused by the engineer. 
BG said that the joists were in a poor condition. But it accepted that it didnt have any 
structural evidence to support this. Ms M said that the joists were in good condition and that 
there was minimal water present. She produced photographs in support. From Ms Ms 
account and her photographs, I am persuaded that the joists were in good condition and that 
the water was minimal. 
  
Putting things rightTaking all of this into account, I am satisfied that BG ought to put matters right by repairing 
and repainting the damaged ceiling. If Ms M is unhappy with the standard of repair that BG 
carries out, shell need to raise this directly with BG. BG should also pay £100 
compensation, for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
British Gas Insurance Limited should repair and repaint the damaged ceiling.
British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Ms M £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman