DRN-3851931
The complaint
Mrs F complains that she was mis-sold an over 50s life cover plan (the plan) by Family 
Assurance Friendly Society Limited, trading as OneFamily, referred to as the business. 
Shes unhappy thats shes already paid more in premiums, than the sum assured. 
What happened
In 2005, Mrs F was sold the plan with a £1,949 sum assured and a £10 regular monthly 
premium. 
She recently realised that shes paid £2,110 in premiums  which is more than the plan is 
worth  so she complained to the business. 
The business didnt uphold the complaint, so Mrs F referred her case to us.   
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The business confirmed that the plan was sold to Mrs F on a non-advised basis  it 
didnt make the recommendation or offer any advice. So, the business wasnt 
responsible for making sure the plan was suitable for her. 
The business was obliged to provide information that was clear, fair, and not 
misleading  which it did. 
The plan documentation, under the heading Risk Factors made clear the following:
oDepending on how long you have your policy, what you have paid in 
premiums may be more than is paid out on death.
oWe do not give advice. If youre not sure that this plan is for you and would 
like personal advice, you should contact a financial adviser. 
Shes persuaded that the business also provided Mrs F with a copy of the key 
features document (KFD). Mrs F completed the application form  dated 23 February 
2005  and signed the following declaration: I have read the key features and agree 
this application shall form the basis of contracts with the Society. 
Overall, shes satisfied that the business provided enough documentation for Mrs F 
to be able to make an informed decision. 
Whilst Mrs F will be disappointed with her plan, she cant say the business has done 
anything wrong. 
Mrs F disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She 
doesnt feel that the business behaved reasonably. According to the investigators note Mrs 
F accepts she didnt read the documentation but had a lot going on at the time. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs F says, Im not persuaded 
that the business behaved unreasonably in this instance. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Mrs Fs strength of feeling about this matter. She and the business have provided 
submissions in respect of the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, 
I hope Mrs F wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point or question raised under a
separate subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this
case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the
pertinent points.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs F and the business and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied the plan was taken out by Mrs F 
on a direct basis. In other words, it was sold without financial advice  probably in response 
to an advert/phone call  as a result, Im unable to consider the suitability of the plan. It 
would be difficult for me to look into the actual suitability of the advice, if I dont consider 
that any advice was given.   
Im aware that these plans were commonly used for funeral cover/ over 50s life cover and 
ensured guaranteed acceptance without the need for medical underwriting. And this remains 
the case today.
Im conscious that mis-selling can take place based on the nature of advertising and the 
representations contained within. But in this instance, and on balance, Im satisfied the plan 
documentation supplied to Mrs F before she accepted the plan was clear, fair, and not 
misleading  the onus was therefore on her to make sure the plan was suitable for her 
needs.
Im satisfied that the plan documentation made reasonably clear the amount payable upon 
claim. And because the plan had a fixed sum assured and premium, it was possible that 
more could be paid in by way of premiums than paid out in the event of death. I dont think 
Mrs F needed to have done a complex calculation to realise this was the case.
I note Mrs F was also given cancellation rights in case she changed her mind. Its unlikely 
that Mrs F wouldnt have received the KFD with the application form which  in addition the 
key points made by the investigator  also made clear that her commitment was to pay a 
fixed monthly premium throughout life, and that this wasnt a savings plan  it has no cash in 
value  and will only pay out upon death. 
I appreciate Mrs F had a lot going at or around this time which I neednt mention other than 
to offer my deepest sympathies, but if she didnt read the documentation provided, to 
familiarise herself with the risks involved, I dont think the business can be held responsible 
for that. Its important to note that the sum assured provided by this type of plan isnt a refund of the 
premiums that have been paid since the plan began. The premiums Mrs F has paid has 
been used to cover the cost of insuring her life since the plan began and probably also the 
expenses the business has incurred setting up and administering the plan.
I understand that the plan sum assured, and premiums, were fixed from the outset based on 
a number of factors including Mrs Fs age, sex, health and mortality tables. I note she has 
paid a large amount of money over the last 17 years; the amount of premiums paid therefore 
was likely to go over the sum assured.
But just because Mrs F lived longer than her predicted age, it was a natural consequence 
that she would have paid substantially more than the sum assured. But had she died before 
then, the plan would have paid out more than the amount of premiums paid in. Thats just 
how the plan operated and was made reasonably clear in the policy schedule, and the client 
specific information. 
Because this was a non-advised sale, and sufficient plan documentation was provided that 
made reasonably clear the nature and operation of the plan, Im not persuaded the plan was 
mis-sold.
Whilst I appreciate Mrs Fs frustration, Im unable to require the business to do anything 
because I dont think it has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman