DRN-1722731
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for their mortgage.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1993. It was paid for with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Js case. 
I think Mr and Mrs Js PPI policy was mis-sold here, and Ill explain why.
Both sides say Santander recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs J. That means it had to 
check the policy was right for them. It also had to give them information about the PPI that 
was clear, fair, and not misleading.
But I dont think this policy was right for them. In order to claim for redundancy, Mr or Mrs J 
needed to be registered as unemployed and in receipt of unemployment benefits. But they 
were each working two jobs at the time, with the jobs being over 16 hours a week. So they 
wouldnt have been able to claim unless one or both of them happened to lose both of their 
jobs at the exact same time  which was not a particularly realistic possibility, and made it 
much harder to claim than they mightve expected. Alternatively, Mr or Mrs J would be forced 
to give up their other job in order to claim  which I think would have been onerous for them. 
So the policy didnt cover them for everything they might have reasonably expected it to.
Santander are unhappy that Mr and Mrs J dont still have evidence of their employment 
status in 1993. While I understand its point, I need to be fair to both sides about what 
evidence I can reasonably expect after 27 years. For example, I have not held it against 
Santander that its been unable to show that Mr and Mrs J actively consented to taking out 
their particular policy, because I dont expect it to still have the original documents from the 
time. Mr and Mrs Js testimony has been consistent and credible, and I have no good reason 
to disbelieve them. I think its most likely they were working two jobs.
I cant see that Santander took these seconds jobs into account in advising Mr and Mrs J, 
nor that it gave them clear, fair information about the unemployment terms at the point of 
sale, in a way that was sufficiently brought to their attention.If Santander had made it clear the policy wasnt right for Mr and Mrs J, or if it had given them 
clear enough information about the PPI, then I dont think they wouldve taken it out. So 
I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs J have lost out because of the flaws in this sale.
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should put Mr and Mrs J in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
Santander should:
Pay Mr and Mrs J back the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
 
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of simple interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
If Mr and Mrs J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
Mr and Mrs J can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint, and direct 
Santander UK Plc to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman