DRN-2253009
The complaint
Mr G complains that U K Insurance limited (UKI) has declined to pay for further repairs to his 
car following a claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to reimburse his repair costs. 
What happened
Mr G made a claim for damage to his drivers side window. UKIs agent replaced the glass 
and Mr G then said he noticed that the remote locking wouldnt work. He said this then 
started working for about two months before he noticed further problems. UKIs agent 
attended and couldnt identify any problems. His report said a garage may be needed. Mr G 
said he told him to go to a dealers garage and UKI would reimburse him. 
Mr G did this and the dealers garage replaced the lock, which it said was faulty. When Mr G 
asked UKI to reimburse him for the cost, it declined as it said he hadnt got its approval for 
the repair first. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought, on 
balance, that the lock may have had wear and tear issues that the change in glass had 
brought to light. He didnt have evidence that the glass replacement had damaged the lock. 
So he thought UKI could fairly rely on the policy exclusion to decline the claim. 
Mr G replied that he thought UKIs agent had damaged the door lock mechanism when he 
replaced the glass.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr G called UKIs agent shortly after the glass replacement to say that the 
doors remote lock wasnt now working. An appointment was made for an engineer to attend. 
But Mr G then cancelled this as the lock started working again. Two months later, the 
problems recurred. An engineer attended and he couldnt identify any problems. Mr G had 
his lock replaced at a dealers garage. But no diagnosis of the fault was made. I can see that 
Mr G is adamant that UKIs agent caused the fault. 
UKI declined the claim for repairs as it said it hadnt authorised them first. I can see that this 
is a policy exclusion set out on page 1 of the policy booklet under Important Information. I 
think this is sufficiently brought to the policyholders attention. And, being a common and not 
unusual exclusion, I think its fair and reasonable for UKI to rely on it. I havent seen any 
evidence that UKI authorised the repairs at the dealers garage. So I think it was fair and 
reasonable for UKI to rely on this exclusion to decline the claim. 
UKI also said it didnt have any evidence that its agent had caused the faulty lock. Were not 
engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is 
a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our 
role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered all 
the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
Mr G provided us with his version of events, and Ive no reason to doubt what hes told us. 
He said the lock was fine before the replacement. It then had a fault which then rectified 
itself for two months. Our investigator suggested that this intermittent issue may have been 
due to wear and tear as the car was eleven years old. But I havent any evidence to support 
this view. 
UKIs agents engineers report says that he stripped the door and lock, cant see any 
issues, may need to go to a garage. Mr G recalled that the engineer said any dealers 
garage would look at the lock and UKI would reimburse his costs. But I havent any evidence 
to support this. UKIs agents then suggested that as the problem was intermittent, there may 
have been a prior problem. It thought it unlikely that if it had caused damage that this would 
have rectified itself for two months. 
Mr G had his lock replaced at the dealers garage. But he said the garage didnt explain why 
the lock was damaged, just that it wasnt working and needed replacing. There was no 
further information on the invoice for UKI to consider.
So UKI had to consider the sequence of events, and the report of its engineer. I cant see 
that Mr G has provided any independent engineering evidence to show that UKIs agent 
damaged the remote locking mechanism. So I think UKI has justified its decision not to 
reimburse Mr G for the cost of the locks replacement. Mr G said UKIs agent said it would 
pay for the replacement. But, as Ive said above, I havent seen any evidence to support this. 
So I dont require UKI to reimburse Mr Gs repair costs.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman