DRN-2518995
The complaint
Mr M complains about Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) and its handling of his 
gadget insurance claim.
Any reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.
What happened
Mr M made a claim on his gadget insurance policy after he damaged his mobile phone. His 
claim was accepted, but Great Lakes told him that it would be using unbranded parts, that 
werent approved by the phones manufacturer, to repair his phone. So, hed lose his two-
year manufacturers warranty. Great Lakes told him that it would provide a six-month 
warranty following the repair, but Mr M wasnt happy with this. He went ahead with the 
repairs, but also made a complaint to Great Lakes. He cancelled his insurance policy with it 
shortly after the repairs were completed.
Great Lakes explained that the frequently asked questions (FAQs) section of the website 
where Mr M bought his policy clearly shows that a manufacturer warranty may be invalidated 
by the use of unbranded parts. So, it thought Mr M was given enough information about this. 
It also outlined the cancellation terms of his policy, which gave him 14 days to cancel should 
he wish. Unhappy with its response, Mr M brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators reviewed things. He ultimately decided that he thought the 
complaint should be upheld. This is because he thought Mr M had lost out on the remaining 
warranty he wouldve had with the phones manufacturer. He also thought that this wouldve 
caused Mr M upset and disappointment. So, he recommended that Great Lakes honour the 
remaining warranty period Mr M wouldve had with the phones manufacturer. Great Lakes 
disagreed and said it told Mr M that the repairs would invalidate the manufacturers warranty 
before they took place. Mr M also wanted to take things further. So, as an agreement 
couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision 
where I said:
I understand Mr Ms disappointment in learning that his phone would be repaired 
using unbranded parts. That being said, its not uncommon for insurers to arrange 
this. Mr M rightly points out that this information isnt included in the terms of the 
policy. But, the policy doesnt say that manufacturer approved parts would be used 
either. With this in mind, I cant say that Great Lakes was wrong to carry out the 
repairs in the way that it did, provided they were done to a reasonable standard. And, 
Ive not seen anything that persuades me this wasnt the case.
Great Lakes has said the information about the use of unbranded parts was available 
in the FAQs section on the website. Mr M doesnt think this is enough, and I agree. 
This would require Mr M to go out of his way to click this section of the website to find 
out information about his policy. And, I dont think thats a reasonable expectation. I 
would expect important information about a policy to be included in the policy terms. 
But, even considering this, I dont think Mr M has lost out as a result of what has 
happened. I say this because the FAQs outline that Great Lakes would fairly consider 
any valid breakdown claim not covered by the manufacturers warranty due to an 
earlier repair completed by Great Lakes. So, whilst I appreciate Mr Ms concern 
about the manufacturers warranty being voided, Great Lakes has offered a 
comparable warranty here. So, I cant agree that Mr M has lost out as a result of the 
repairs done on his phone.
Overall, I think the policy terms shouldve set out information about how the repairs 
would be carried out. But, for the reasons outlined above, I dont think Mr M has lost 
out as a result.
Great Lakes responded to the provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add. Mr M 
disagreed with the decision. He remained unhappy that unbranded parts were used and 
information about this was only in the FAQs and not in the policy terms. He also disputed 
that the repairs undertaken by Great Lakes were done to a reasonable standard as the 
screen developed a chip a few weeks afterwards and the front camera developed some 
intermittent faults. Mr M also complained that Great Lakes took six weeks to deal with his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same. Mr M is unhappy that the information about 
the unbranded parts in the FAQs wasnt made clear to him at the point of sale. But I have to 
consider that they were drawn to his attention at the point he made a claim. And, as 
mentioned in my provisional decision, I cant see that hes lost out as a result, as Great 
Lakes offered a comparable warranty. 
Ive considered that Mr M thinks its unfair that he wouldve had to remain insured by Great 
Lakes for the duration of his manufacturer warranty period to benefit from this. But the fact 
remains that Mr M initially wanted both phone insurance and any subsequent claims to be 
considered under a warranty if necessary. Here, Great Lakes offered both and so I dont 
think this was unfair, or that Mr M wouldve been any worse off as a result.
In his testimony, Mr M says his phone was chipped shortly after the repairs and the front 
camera started working intermittently. So he doesnt think the repairs were done to a 
reasonable standard. But Ive not been presented with anything that shows he raised any 
concerns about the quality of the repairs with Great Lakes. So, I cant fairly conclude, based 
on the information thats been presented to me, that there were issues with the repairs Great 
Lakes completed on Mr Ms phone.
I understand Mr M is unhappy about the length of time Great Lakes took to respond to his 
complaint. This isnt something Im able to consider as complaint handling isnt a regulated 
activity, or one of the other non-regulated activities that this service can consider. I would 
point out however, that the Dispute Resolution rules set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook say that an insurer has eight weeks to issue a response to a complaint. 
Overall, I still dont think that Mr M has lost out as a result of Great Lakes actions.
My final decision
I dont think Great Lakes Insurance SE needs to do anything to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman