DRN-3371879
The complaint
Mr D complains about advice he said he was given by Mercer Limited (Mercer) to transfer
from an insurance company pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and about
investment advice which he said was not suitable.
What happened
Mr D complains about alleged advice from a company that has now become part of Mercer.
Mr D said it advised him to transfer his pension to a SIPP and gave investment advice which
wasnt suitable. Mr D said he was not an experienced investor and Mercer should have been
aware he was in a particularly high-risk venture that was not suitable for him as a retail
customer. He had suffered significant financial loss and felt Mercer should put him back in
the position he would have been in.
Mercer said its business was not authorised to advise Mr D. He did not request any advice
from it and it did not advise him. Another business was acting on Mr Ds instructions and
then contacted it on 29 February 2008. A transfer value of around £32,000 was paid into Mr
Ds SIPP on 25 March 2008. On 9 November 2009 the other business, acting on behalf of
Mr D confirmed he had intended to make a third-party loan from his SIPP but the agreement
was never completed and the transfer remained in cash.
Mr D asked Mercer to facilitate a tax-free cash payment of around £7,000 that was paid out
in August 2015. He took a further £8,000 in May 2016 and £14,000 in April 2017. He
received annual statements for his SIPP. Further it was now more than six years since the
original event and more than three years since he should have realised, he had reason to
complain.
The investigator considered only the question of whether this complaint could be considered
by this service due to the time since the events complained about. He said he thought Mr D
was an eligible complaint. Further he said he thought Mr Ds complaint was made in time, as
there was no specific or particular event that would have given him reasonable cause for
concern prior to when the complaint was made. He said that in part because the money 
remained in cash so there was no clear point or event at which point Mr D would have
realised the alleged advice was unsuitable.
I issued a provisional decision in this case.
I said the investigator considered whether this service could consider this complaint due to 
the time within which it was brought. That meant the merits of the complaint were not
considered. It was concluded that this service could consider the complaint as there was no
specific date or point at which Mr D could have realised, he should complaint.
This complaint was against a company that has now become part of Mercer but for ease of
reference I simply referred to Mercer.
Having reviewed the papers I decided to consider the merits of this complaint as I did
not think it had been brought against the correct party and therefore the issue of whether the
complaint was brought within time was not relevant. I asked Mr Ds representative about this 
but unfortunately it did not reply. For that reason I issued a provisional decision.
I had seen a financial overview document from a third party, prepared for Mr D. This
outlined an investment proposal to buy an overseas villa for around $2 million, of which
around £33,000 was to be sourced from Mr Ds Pension. The third party also produced a
review of Mr Ds existing insurance company pension. It seemed most likely that it was 
based on this third-party advice that the pension transfer to the SIPP and proposed 
investment were advised. It was clear that third party was not Mercer or the entity it took 
over.
I reviewed the evidence submitted but this didnt show any transfer advice or
investment advice was given by Mercer, who seem instead to be acting as scheme
administrators. Nor did the evidence show that any investment along the lines suggested
above was actually made.
I said that because the papers instead showed Mr D paid in around £10,000 in total in April 
and March 2008. Of this £5,000 was paid to third party company against an invoice of 
£5,000 dated May 2008 for what is said to be consultancy for a property investment 
contract. Further around £32,000 was transferred into his SIPP from Mr Ds previous 
pension scheme and remained in cash. I said that because I had seen Mr Ds annual 
statements for 2009 to 2012 which confirm this.
Further from the papers, including copies of his annual statements for the years in question,
I could see that Mr D withdrew a total of around £30,000 in cash withdrawals in 2015 
(£7,000), 2016 (£8,000) and 2017 (£14,000).
On the 2015 application to make a cash withdrawal, Mr D stated he took financial advice
from another firm. Those cash withdrawals would not be possible had the money been paid
into another investment as Mr D suggested.
Based on the above it seemed that Mercer was not the right party for Mr Ds complaint as I 
had not seen any evidence it advised on the transfer into the SIPP, nor any proposed
investment. In any event it did not seem any investment was made as the money remained
in cash in the bank account.
For those reasons I didnt propose to uphold this complaint.
Mr Ds representative responded to say that he had no further evidence to submit. Mercer 
had no further comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and because neither party has submitted further comments, I have not 
changed my mind.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman