DRN-3965775
The complaint
Miss C complains that Studio Retail Limited unfairly declined to credit her running credit 
account with the cost of goods which she says were returned.
What happened
Miss C used her running credit account with Studio to purchase a mobile phone in May 
2022. The same month she arranged for the item to be returned to Studio because it wasnt 
suitable. 
Studio subsequently said it hadnt received the item back, so it declined to credit the cost to 
Miss Cs account. Miss C raised a complaint about what had happened. She said that shed 
provided evidence that a courier working on behalf of Studio had collected the goods. 
Ultimately, Studio concluded that it hadnt received the goods, so it wasnt willing to credit 
the associated cost to Miss Cs account. 
Miss C didnt think that was fair, so she referred a complaint to this service. She said that 
Studio ought to refund the cost and shouldve stopped interest being charged on the 
associated balance of her account whilst the dispute was ongoing. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that Miss Cs dispute about whether 
Studio had received the goods back was about Studios activities as a retailer, which wasnt 
something this service had the jurisdiction to consider a complaint about. 
Our investigator accepted that we have the jurisdiction to consider whether or not Studio had 
treated Miss C fairly in relation to her regulated credit agreement. They noted the agreement 
didnt require Studio to suspend interest or credit sums in the event of a dispute about 
goods. As a result, they concluded that Studio had acted fairly by asking Miss C to repay the 
sums owing under the agreement.
Miss C disagreed and made a number of detailed submissions. They focused on the 
strength of the evidence shed provided to show that the goods had been collected and why 
that meant Studio ought to refund the associated cost of the purchase.
The case has been passed to me to decide what should happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Miss C has said that she feels very strongly about whats happened 
here. Thats understandable given that she considers she has evidence to show that shed 
returned the goods. 
That being said, I must follow the rules under which this service operates, and I can only 
make a finding on something that this service has the power to consider a complaint about. 
Ill explain what that means for Miss Cs complaint. 
Before doing so, I recognise that Miss C has made a number of detailed submissions 
regarding her complaint, particularly in relation to evidence she believes shows that she had 
returned the goods in question. I dont intend to mirror that level of detail, simply because I 
dont find it necessary in explaining what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome. So, 
if I dont mention a point Miss C has made, its because I dont consider it to be material to 
the outcome of the complaint. I can assure Miss C, however, that Ive carefully considered 
everthing shes said and all of her submissions in full. 
Studio comes under this services jurisdiction, but it has acted in two different capacities in 
dealing with Miss C. Theres an important distinction to be made here, and its relevant to 
whether or not the complaint relates to an activity we can consider.
In selling goods to Miss C, Studio has acted as a retailer. It was also acting as a retailer in 
handling subsequent issues about the return of those goods. So, Miss Cs current dispute 
about whether or not Studio had received the goods back, or whether shed followed its 
returns process in returning the goods, relates to Studios role as a retailer. This service has 
no power to consider complaints about Studios activities as a retailer. Given this, I make no 
findings on these issues, as well as any other issues Miss C has raised about Studios 
handling of the associated investigation into these matters.
This service does, however, have the power to consider whether or not Studio has fairly 
handled matters relating to Miss C running credit account  independently of her dispute 
about the return of the goods. Ill explain why.
Our rules (known as DISP and found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook) say that 
we can consider complaints about a business covered by our jurisdiction as long the 
complaint is about a regulated activity, or other specified.
DISP 2.3.1R specifically sets this out. The regulated activities our rules refer to are set out in 
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). 
Article 60B(2) of the RAO says that exercising a lenders rights and duties under a regulated 
credit agreement is a regulated activity.
Studio has attempted to exercise a lenders rights and duties under a regulated credit 
agreement by asking Miss C to repay sums lent to her under her running account credit 
agreement. Miss C asserts that Studio has not acted fairly by doing so and says Studio 
ought to refund sums shes paid towards the agreement. Shes also said it ought to have 
prevented interest from accruing on the balance due to her dispute. In other words, shes 
expressed dissatisfaction about the administration of her regulated credit agreement. Thats 
something which this service has the power to consider a complaint about  independently 
of any dispute about Studios retail activity.
Miss Cs regulated agreement set out that Studio would provide lending for certain 
purchases and also the terms on which she would be required to repay that lending. It 
doesnt say that Miss C neednt repay the lending in the event of a dispute about the 
provision or return of those goods. It also doesnt say that Studio would suspend interest in 
the event of such a dispute. 
As Ive mentioned above, I recognise that Miss C feels strongly that shes demonstrated that 
the goods were returned to Studio, but thats an issue to do with Studios retail activity. So, 
on the basis that Miss Cs agreement requires her to repay lending which Studio provided in 
relation to purchases, I dont think its done anything wrong by asking her to repay the 
associated sums. Miss C has said at some point Studio said it would suspend interest due to her dispute, but it 
didnt do so. From what Ive seen Im not persuaded thats what happened, but even if thats 
the case, I dont think there was an obligation for Studio to suspend interest being applied to 
those sums because of Miss Cs dispute. As a result, I think it was fair for Studio to apply 
interest in line with Miss Cs agreement. Overall, I think that Studio has handled matters 
relating to Miss Cs regulated agreement fairly.
Lastly, I note that Miss C mentioned to this service that shes experienced financial hardship 
as a result of whats happened. Should Miss C have difficulty in making the payments 
required Id encourage her to engage with Studio about that and I remind Studio of its 
responsibility to treat Miss C with forbearance and due consideration. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman