DRN-3928472
The complaint
Mr F has complained about the way Vodafone Limited dealt with him after he tried to place 
an order for an upgraded device. 
What happened
In August 2022 Mr F applied for an upgraded device with Vodafone online. Vodafone carried 
out a credit search for a fixed sum loan agreement. Mr F wanted to trade in his old device, 
which he had also bought under a fixed sum loan agreement with Vodafone. There were 
issues with the trade-in for the order and Mr F contacted Vodafone for help. He also visited a 
Vodafone store to request the upgrade.
Vodafone tells us theres no record of conversations that took place in the store regarding 
the upgrade. But it acknowledges there was an issue with applying the trade-in code 
provided so the order was cancelled. 
Mr F and Vodafone liaised about the issue. It looks like Vodafone told Mr F initially the 
complaint wasnt to do with a financial service (and therefore one the Financial Ombudsman 
could consider) because it was to do with the trade-in. Mr F was still unhappy, and he 
complained. 
Vodafone sent Mr F a final response letter in October 2022. In summary, it said there was a 
technical issue that resulted in his trade-in options not being applied. It said a credit search 
was completed and the loan agreement was generated even though Mr F says he hadnt 
authorised this. It apologised it had previously told Mr F this wasnt a financial services 
complaint. It referred to a request from Mr F to receive a device for no cost to resolve the 
complaint but declined this. However, it offered Mr F £100 credit towards his airtime as 
compensation in recognition of the experience he had. 
This didnt resolve things for Mr F, and he brought the complaint to our service to consider. 
He said Vodafone offered no mitigation or explanation on why and how it happened. He said 
Vodafone wasnt interested in how many people he was passed around. Hes unhappy 
Vodafone tried to tell him it wasnt a financial services complaint. He thought Vodafone had 
breached data protection and he was pressured to drop the complaint. He said hed like to 
have the agreement cleared for his current device along with apologies from all staff 
members involved.
In its submission to our service Vodafone apologised again that Mr F was pressured to drop 
his complaint and said it would provide feedback internally. But it reiterated its apology and 
that it thought the £100 credit was a fair offer. 
Mr F spoke to our investigator and explained he couldnt understand why an agreement was 
produced as there wasnt sufficient information. He said the agreement should have been 
read before it was produced. He says the agreement shouldnt have been live on Vodafones 
systems. Mr F also explained to our investigator the order wasnt processed properly. He 
says his credit score was impacted by searches completed by Vodafone, and that he wasnt 
told a search would be carried out. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but thought Vodafone had done enough to put 
things right. He said it was clear there were problems with the application, but Mr F hadnt 
shown what impact this had on him. With regards to the credit search, he said he couldnt 
establish what was said in the store, but hed been told the store employee should have 
given Mr F a warning that one would be carried out. There were parts of the complaint our 
investigator didnt think he could consider but, in the round, he thought Vodafone had done 
enough to put things right. 
Mr F didnt agree. He said he wasnt given a warning about a credit search being carried out. 
He gave details about Vodafones processes and said the order cant have been processed 
correctly. He said he wanted his complaint considered by an ombudsman because Vodafone 
had created an agreement without Mr Fs knowledge. In summary, he says:
He never signed a credit agreement. 
The order didnt progress to the credit check part. 
The order should have stopped when the trade-in part couldnt be completed. 
All orders were stopped. 
If an order was completed this was a mistake. 
The credit check wasnt done by him, and it shouldnt have happened. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Mr F 
and Vodafone that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its 
not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the 
key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. 
I also want to point out that Im required to decide the complaint quickly and with minimum 
formality. I think this is important to set that out here. Mr F clearly has a lot of knowledge of 
the process involved when making an application. And I can see hes unhappy because he 
thinks Vodafone hasnt followed the correct process. Given his knowledge of how the sales 
process works, I can understand his frustration, and that he tells us hes not had adequate 
explanations for what happened. Hes also unhappy with the way Vodafone dealt with him 
and the pressure it put on him to drop his complaint. In addition to that, Vodafone initially 
said this complaint wasnt in relation to a financial service. Taking all of this into account, its 
not surprising Mr F wanted to take things further. I imagine he didnt think he was being 
listened to. He was unfairly put under pressure to drop his complaint. And hes unhappy 
Vodafone seems to have processed the application incorrectly. 
Ive thought about Vodafones response to what happened. Its apologised to Mr F. Its fed 
back internally about things that have gone wrong. Its said its not recording anything 
negative on Mr Fs credit file. It acknowledged the order had issues. And it credited Mr F with 
£100 in relation by way of compensation. 
Mr F isnt happy with the resolution. But bearing in mind my requirement to resolve 
complaints quickly and with minimum formality, I find the outcome reached to be broadly fair. 
Mr F mentioned previously about having an agreement cleared for a device, but I dont have 
grounds to direct Vodafone to do that. Mr F is adamant the process followed by Vodafone 
was wrong. And he has further questions about why. Ill never know exactly what happened when the application was made, but further back and forth with Vodafone seeking more 
explanations isnt going to change what has already happened. I need to be able to draw a 
line under the investigation so that the parties can move on. 
Like our investigator pointed out, we have to look at the impact of mistakes on consumers. 
While I can appreciate hes unhappy, and that I empathise, theres been no financial loss 
caused to Mr F from what Ive seen. Moreover, Vodafone has said its not reporting anything 
negative on Mr Fs credit file. Given its been around a year since the hard search was 
carried out, I dont consider I need to direct Vodafone to remove the search, as Ive not seen 
the hard search (or any other reported information) has caused any lasting detriment to his 
credit file.     
Overall, mistakes have been made, and Vodafone has credited Mr F £100 in recognition of 
whats gone wrong. In the round, I think thats broadly fair. I dont find I have the grounds to 
direct Vodafone to do more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Vodafone Limited has done enough to put things right by crediting 
Mr F £100.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman