DRN-3034758
The complaint
Mr A complains that Furness Building Society didnt notify him when his mortgage interest 
rate came to an end, which left him paying the higher standard variable rate (SVR).
What happened
Mr A has a mortgage with Furness, taken out in 2012. He has had a series of preferential 
rates, and this complaint is about what happened when a rate ended.
Mr As most recent rates were taken out in May 2017. He had two sub-accounts on his 
mortgage:
Sub-account 1, for £152,000, was at a discount of 3.55% on the SVR until November 
2017;
Sub-account 2, for £166,000, was at a discount of 3.99% on the SVR until May 2019.
Mr A said that in the past Furness wrote to him to tell him his rates had come to an end, 
prompting him to apply for new ones. But he says it didnt do that in November 2017, which 
meant that the mortgage reverted to the SVR rather than switch over to a new rate.
Mr A says hes paid too much interest as a result. It was only when Furness wrote to him in 
May 2019 that he arranged a new rate, when sub-account 2 reverted to the SVR  meaning 
sub-account 1 had been on SVR since November 2017. Mr A said he had not received any 
post from Furness until May 2019, when the rate expired on sub-account 2. He wants 
Furness to refund the difference between the SVR and a rate he could have taken on 
subaccount 1 from November 2017 until 2019.
Furness said it did write to Mr A in November 2017, when his mortgage reverted to the SVR. 
And it wrote again in December 2017, when the SVR changed. However, as a gesture of 
goodwill it offered to refund £287.12, the additional interest paid until the second letter in 
December 2017.
Our investigator asked Furness for evidence it had written to Mr A in November and 
December 2017, but it was unable to provide copies of the letters. The investigator said that 
as Furness were unable to evidence that it had written to Mr A and told him his payments 
were changing, it should refund the difference between the SVR and a rate he would have 
been able to take on sub-account 1.
I took a different view, so I issued a provisional decision to allow the parties to comment on 
my thinking. I said:
Ive looked at all the documents in this case to understand what Mr A was told and 
when. The mortgage offer clearly sets out that there are two sub-accounts, what the 
interest rate on each is, and when the rates expire.
The offer was issued in March 2017, and says, for sub-account 1, that a discount rate 
will apply until 9th November 2017. After the discount rate period ends, the Societys 
Mortgage Variable Rate, currently 5.29%, will apply for the remainder of the 
mortgage term.
It's not a regulatory requirement for a lender to notify borrowers when a preferential 
rate comes to an end  but it is a requirement to notify them when monthly payments 
change, which in practice often amounts to the same thing. Furness says it wrote to 
Mr A when his rate ended in November 2017, and wrote again the following month 
when the payment changed again because of a change in interest rates. But it hasnt 
been able to provide copies of those letters.
Furness sent Mr A an annual mortgage statement in January 2018. It has been able 
to give us a copy of this document. Sub-accounts 1 and 2 are separately itemised, 
and the statement clearly sets out, in a table, the interest rates which apply to each.
The statement says that sub-account 1s interest rate was 1.99% from July 2017, 
5.29% from November 2017, and 5.54% from December 2017.
The statement is correctly addressed, I have no reason to doubt that it was sent, and 
I think its more likely than not it was delivered to Mr As address. Post does go astray 
occasionally, but thats a rare event, and Im not aware of any specific problems with 
Mr A receiving post more widely.
I think its more likely than not that Furness did write to Mr A in November and 
December 2017  it was obliged to do so, and I dont attach much weight to the fact 
that it cant produce copies now of what would have been a standard mailing.
But even without those two letters, Furness told Mr A in March 2017  in the 
mortgage offer  that his rate expired in November 2017. And it told him in January 
2018 that he was now on the SVR on sub-account 1. Theres no obligation on 
lenders to pro-actively contact borrowers once theyre on SVR and have been told 
their payments have changed, to offer new rates or invite applications.
I also bear in mind that it would have been apparent to Mr A that his payments had 
gone up by £300 a month  which might have led him to question the rate he was 
now on even if he didnt receive the letters.
Im therefore satisfied that Furness did enough to make Mr A aware of when the rate 
ended on sub-account 1. Its up to a borrower to apply for a new rate  many choose 
to do so, but many others actively choose not to, and others simply overlook the 
need to do so. I think thats probably what happened in this case. But as Furness did 
enough to make Mr A aware that he was now on the SVR, and Mr A didnt follow that 
up or make an application, I dont think Furness is responsible for sub-account 1 
remaining on the SVR until 2019.
Furness has offered to refund the difference between the SVR and a preferential rate 
until December 2017. I think thats a fair offer to settle this complaint and I dont 
intend to require it to take any further action.
Furness had nothing further to add. Mr A didnt accept my provisional decision. He said I 
shouldnt assume that Furness wrote to him in November and December 2017. He said it 
was a regulatory requirement to send the letters and he didnt think it likely that Furness 
wouldnt have retained or wouldnt be able to produce copies. He said that it was more likely 
that production of the letters was automated and didnt happen due to a system bug.And he didnt agree that it was reasonable for him to have noticed that the monthly 
payments went up by £300. He said that he had around 50 transactions from his current 
account every month, including several other mortgages. Its difficult for him to stay on top of 
everything and remember every deal and expiry date. He relies on lenders to contact him to 
prompt him to make applications  as Furness has on three occasions in the past. 
Mr A also said that Furness had made more recent errors  a 2021 product switch wasnt 
processed correctly for several months. Since this complaint, he now checks his Furness 
statements more carefully and was able to spot it quickly and get it corrected. But this shows 
Furness does make mistakes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered what Mr A has said, and re-considered my provisional findings in 
light of it. But having done so, I havent changed my mind.
I still think its more likely than not that the two letters were sent  even though Furness 
hasnt been able to provide copies of them. Its not unusual, in my experience, for lenders 
not to retain individualised copies of standard letters. 
However, even if Mr A is right that those two letters were never sent, he still had the 
mortgage offer which told him when the rate ended, and the January 2018 statement which 
told him it had just ended  as well as the change in monthly payments. So he still had 
enough information to know when his rate was coming to an end, and when it had done so.
Ive taken into account what Mr A has said about how he manages his finances. I appreciate 
that he relies on prompts from lenders to make decisions about his mortgage.
But as I explained, its up to the borrower to apply, not up to the lender to invite applications. 
Mr As finances may be complicated  but that doesnt shift the obligation to the lender. Its 
still a matter for the borrower to choose whether or not to apply for a new rate, and make the 
application if they want one  including making sure they know when to do so  no matter 
how many mortgages they have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman