DRN-2523043
The complaint
Mr B complains about information he received from Neilson Financial Services Limited 
trading as British Seniors Insurance Agency (BSIA) when taking out an Over 50s Life 
Insurance policy in 2013.
Mr B is using a representative to bring his complaint. For ease I will refer to all actions as 
being those of Mr B.
What happened
In 2013 Mr B spoke with BSIA and took out an over 50s Life Insurance policy.
In 2020 Mr B complained to BSIA saying the policy had been mis-sold as he wasnt told the 
premiums would increase and he also wasnt told about other products he could have.
BSIA looked into what happened but didnt uphold the complaint. They said the policy was 
fully explained over the telephone including how the premiums would increase. BSIA said 
they sent policy documents to Mr B and also explained there was a 30 day cooling off 
period. BSIA went on to say they had sent Mr B renewal documents every year prior to any 
premium increase.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought that BSIA had fully explained the 
policy over the telephone and that it wasnt mis-sold. Mr B disagreed so the complaint has 
come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin I think its important to say that BSIA offer products on a non-advisory basis; this 
means they dont offer advice to customers. What they do is present information about their 
products to consumers and allow them to make a choice if what is being offered suits their 
needs. When doing this Id expect BSIA to present product information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way so that a customer can make up their own mind. And looking at what 
happened with Mr B Im satisfied thats what BSIA did. 
Mr B contacted BSIA by telephone after seeing an advertisement. During that call BSIA 
explained the features of the product to both Mr B and a family member who was helping 
him. BSIA made clear they were giving Mr B information so that he could decide for himself if 
the product was suitable. After BSIA had explained all the information Mr B said that he 
needed to think about things before agreeing. BSIA gave details of their website where 
product information could be found to help him make the decision.
About a month later Mr B, along with his family member, telephoned BSIA again and said he 
wanted to proceed with the policy. BSIA again explained how the product worked including 
how the sum assured would increase by 5% each year until he reached the age of 75. BSIA 
said that the premiums would rise accordingly alongside the increased sum assured and his 
age. BSIA and Mr B discussed and agreed the level of cover. It was also explained that Mr B 
could opt out of the 5% increase at any time and that there was a cooling off period when the 
policy could be cancelled. 
BSIA followed up the telephone call by sending Mr B the terms and conditions, Key Facts 
and policy booklet. 
Looking at everything that happened Im satisfied BSIA gave clear, fair, and not misleading 
information so that Mr B could make up his own mind about proceeding with the policy. I 
think BSIA fully explained the features of the policy which was also followed up in writing.
Mr B says that BSIA didnt tell him about other products, such as a level term policy, which 
might have been suitable. Because BSIA dont give financial advice I wouldnt expect them 
to discuss a range of products. I think its enough that they explained the product Mr B 
contacted them and asked about. I havent seen any mention from Mr B in either telephone 
call that he was interested in any other available products. Had Mr B have mentioned this I 
wouldve expected BSIA to provide information, but that isnt what happened.
Having carefully considered everything that happened I think BSIA acted fairly and 
reasonably when discussing the policy and providing information so that Mr B could make an 
informed choice. Because of this I dont think the policy was mis-sold and I wont be asking 
BSIA to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman