DRN-3856334
The complaint
Mr M complains that Astute Financial Management UK Ltd (AFM) gave him unsuitable 
advice in connection with the transfer of his personal pension into a SSAS (small self 
administered scheme) and investment in an unregulated investment.  
What happened
Mr M had a personal pension with a major provider. I understand that in 2013 Mr M was 
cold called by First Review Pension Services (FRPS), an unregulated firm. FRPS referred 
Mr M to Cantwell Grove Limited (CGL) to set up a SSAS. Mr M signed CGLs Trustee Deed 
and Administration Services Agreement for the SSAS on 25 September 2013. Mr M would 
be the trustee of the SSAS and CGL the administrator. 
On 30 September 2013 CGL wrote to Mr Ms existing provider requesting that the value of 
Mr Ms personal pension be transferred into the SSAS. Various documents were enclosed. 
CGL checked on 2 October 2013 that the transfer request had been received. The provider 
told CGL it was under review. CGL wrote to the provider again on 30 January 2014 saying 
Mr M was concerned about the delay and asking for the transfer to be actioned as a priority.  
Ive seen a Dear Mr Trustee letter dated 28 May 2014 sent to Mr M from a company called 
Broadwood Assets Limited (BAL). It said Mr M was considering appropriate investments for 
his recently established SSAS and, in particular, an investment in an overseas commercial 
property in Cape Verde being developed by The Resort Group plc (TRG). The letter referred 
to Mr M, as a trustee, being required by the Pensions Act 1995 to take appropriate advice as 
to whether the proposed investment was satisfactory for the aims of the scheme. And that 
Mr M had appointed BAL to provide that advice. 
The letter went on to say, amongst other things, that BAL hadnt advised Mr M on the 
establishment of his SSAS; the opinion on the particular investment was provided to Mr M as 
a trustee of the SSAS and not in his personal capacity as a member; BAL wasnt providing 
advice that would be deemed regulated advice under the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA); and BAL wasnt regulated or authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). BAL said it had researched the Cape Verde investment and TRG. The key features 
and risks were noted. BAL concluded the investment was suitable for Mr Ms SSAS and for 
more adventurous investors. BAL recommended that Mr M take investment advice about the 
initial residual cash and potential cash receipts from the Cape Verde investment.  
Mr M signed the letter on 19 June 2014 to confirm hed received a copy and hed read and 
understood the advice. On the same date he signed an instruction, in his capacity as trustee, 
to CGL to invest £25,300 in the Cape Verde investment opportunity offered by TRG. 
The transfer to the SSAS was completed on 17 August 2015. A transfer value of £30,860.58 
was paid. On 4 September 2015 £23,500 was invested the Cape Verde investment.  
CGL wrote to Mr M on 9 September 2015 acknowledging his investment instruction and 
saying that CGL had consented to it and £25,300 had been invested in the Cape Verde 
investment with TRG. CGL said Mr M had funds remaining in his SSAS bank account and so 
his details had been referred to AFM (a FCA regulated company) who offered a discretionary 
fund management service. CGL said it consented to Mr M investing his residual funds with 
AFM whod be in contact with Mr M although he wasnt obliged to use their services, in which 
case the funds would remain in his SSAS bank account. 
AFM was instructed and on 18 November 2015 AFM wrote to Mr M enclosing its investment 
report and other documents, including a personalised illustration, a key features document, 
and information about the investments recommended. 
The report said the cash holding in the SSAS had been reviewed and the purpose of the 
report was to confirm AFMs recommendations. Mr M held £3,660.83 in cash in the SSAS, of 
which £2,988.83 was available for investment which Mr M wanted to invest for the medium 
to long term (in excess of five years). He wanted his investment management to be 
straightforward and easy to understand. And he wanted to ensure his investment was in line 
with his attitude to investment risk and tolerance for losses. It had been agreed that the 
focus of AFMs advice was purely on the investment of the lump sum to provide capital 
growth over the medium to long term.
About Mr Ms attitude to risk and tolerance for loss, the letter set out four types of risk 
(capital, inflation, relative and liquidity). Mr M had recently completed a risk profile 
questionnaire which indicated his risk tolerance for his pension plans was best described as:
Low end of Moderate to Adventurous. You are prepared to take a medium degree of risk 
with your investment in return for the prospect of improving longer term investment 
performance. Short term capital protection is not important to you and you are willing to 
sacrifice some long term protection for the likelihood of greater returns. 
A typical Moderate to Adventurous investor will be invested mainly in equities but with other 
assets included to provide some diversification. There may be a small amount of specialized 
equity within the portfolio. Because you are a Low end of Moderate to Adventurous investor 
there will be slightly more invested in fixed interest and cash. 
AFM recommended an Aviva General Investment Account. The reasons were: access to a 
range of investment strategies that can be varied to suit Mr Ms requirements; flexibility 
(there was no fixed investment term and additional contributions could be made or funds 
withdrawn at any time); potential for capital growth; and helping to reduce risk associated 
with asset backed investment by providing exposure to a range of stocks and shares. AFM 
recommended that Mr M invest circa £2,988.83 into a diversified portfolio of predominantly 
index tracking funds in line with his investment objectives and tolerance to risk. The 
particular funds and percentages were set out:
Henderson UK Property OEIC 10%
Legal & General UK Index Trust 15%
Vanguard FTSE Developed World Equity 35%
Vanguard FTSE UK Equity Income Index   5%
Vanguard Lifestrategy 100% Equity Fund 35%
The charges were also detailed. AFM charged an initial fee of £300 for arranging the 
investment and for regular policy servicing 0.5% pa of the fund value (£5.00 for every 
£1,000.00 under management). There was a platform charge (Aviva) of 0.25% pa and 
possible fund providers charges of 0.10% pa to 0.75% pa. An appendix was included setting 
out various risk warnings.  
Mr M accepted the recommendation and on 18 December 2015 AFM wrote to CGL 
enclosing Mr Ms signed investment instruction and requesting a payment of £2,988.83 be made out of Mr Ms SSAS to his account on the Aviva platform. That sum was invested in 
the Aviva Portfolio on 13 December 2015.
On 26 August 2021 Mr M, via his legal representative, complained to AFM. Mr M said hed 
been referred to AFM for specialist pension advice as FRPS wasnt regulated. Amongst 
other things, the complaint letter alleged negligence, breach of Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) 9 and 19 and breach of the FCAs Principles for Businesses and which 
had resulted in financial loss for Mr M. AFM replied on 31 August 2021 saying it had never 
recommended, advised on or sold any unregulated investments in Cape Verde or similar 
and had never switched any pensions to a SSAS. 
Mr Ms representative referred the complaint to us. One of our investigators considered it. He 
said the issue to determine was if AFM had provided advice or a recommendation which had 
resulted in Mr M transferring his personal pension to the SSAS and investing in unregulated 
investments and the Aviva portfolio. The investigators findings, supported by the copy 
documentation he attached, were as follows:
The recommendation to set up the SSAS was provided by an unregulated firm, 
FPRS. A SSAS is an unregulated product.  
The advice to transfer Mr Ms personal pension to the SSAS was provided by an 
unregulated firm, BAL. The recommendation to invest in Cape Verde was provided 
by BAL. 
As the advice to open up a SSAS, to transfer from the existing provider to the SSAS 
and to invest in an unregulated investment were all provided by unregulated firms, 
this service was unable to investigate those instances of advice. 
There was no evidence that AFM was involved at any stage until referred to Mr M to 
advise about the cash in the SSAS. By then Mr M had already invested in Cape 
Verde through his SSAS. No evidence had been provided that FRPS or BAL were 
working together with AFM. 
We could look at the AFMs advice to invest cash from the SSAS into the Aviva 
portfolio. AFM is regulated and the Aviva portfolio is made up of regulated funds. 
AFM had charged £300 (discounted from £500) for the advice to invest in the Aviva 
portfolio. 
But the investigator thought the advice to invest in the Aviva portfolio was suitable 
and so he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr Ms representative didnt accept the investigators view and asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. It said it was investigating a possible claim to the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) against another firm which FSCS wouldnt consider 
until a final decision on Mr Ms complaint about AFM had been made. 
The investigator said, when he wrote to Mr Ms representative to confirm the complaint 
would be reviewed by an ombudsman, that he was attaching a copy of his view and the 
response from the business. Mr Ms representative contacted us to say the documents 
hadnt been attached. But, to clarify, Mr Ms representative had already seen and responded 
to the investigators view and we didnt receive any substantive response from AFM. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I agree with the investigator that AFMs role in the matter was limited to 
advising Mr M about the residual cash held in the SSAS after the Cape Verde investment 
had been made. 
The investigator said the recommendation to set up SSAS was provided by FPRS, an 
unregulated firm. And that the advice to transfer the personal pension to the SSAS and the 
recommendation to invest in Cape Verde was provided by BAL, another unregulated firm. 
Im not sure that was the case. Although BAL advised Mr M in his capacity as a trustee in 
respect of the Cape Verde investment, I havent seen anything to suggest BAL gave advice 
about the SSAS itself or switching Mr Ms existing personal pension into the SSAS. It may be 
that FPRS gave Mr M advice about setting up the SSAS and transferring with a view to 
investing in Cape Verde. My understanding is that one of the directors of FPRS may also 
have been a director of TRG. 
But, that aside and whatever advice was given, by whom and if that may have been in 
breach of the general prohibition in section 19 of FSMA, Im only considering a complaint 
about AFM. From what Ive seen, AFM wasnt involved in and didnt give any advice in 
connection with the setting up of the SSAS, transferring the value of Mr Ms existing personal 
pension plan into the SSAS or investing the bulk of the SSAS fund (£25,300) in the Cape 
Verde investment with TRG. I havent seen anything to suggest that AFM was working with 
any of the other parties involved in those transactions. 
CGL introduced Mr M to AFM in September 2015, as evidenced by CGLs letter to Mr M 
dated 9 September 2015. The SSAS had been set up about a year earlier. And the transfer 
to the SSAS and the investment in Cape Verde had already been made - on 17 August 2015 
and 4 September 2015 respectively. 
AFMs letter enclosing its investment report said AFM was just advising in connection with 
the residual cash held in the SSAS and of which £2,988.83 was available for investment. 
The report confirms that AFMs advice was limited to recommending how that money should 
be invested. So all Ive considered is whether AFMs recommendation that Mr M invest 
£2,988.83 in the Aviva portfolio was suitable.  
Ive looked first at the charges for the Aviva portfolio as set out above. I dont regard these 
as excessive or such that made the advice unsuitable. I think the main issue is if the Aviva 
portfolio was suitable in terms of Mr Ms circumstances generally and if it matched his 
attitude to risk. 
Mr M was coming up to 47 at the time of the advice. He was investing for the medium to long 
term (over five years) and his objective was capital growth. His attitude to investment risk 
had been assessed as low end of Moderate to Adventurous. Im not entirely sure what that 
means. But, from the description given  which refers to the investor being prepared to take 
a medium degree of investment risk  Id say it denoted a balanced or medium, or possibly 
slightly higher, risk investor. Looking at Mr Ms age and circumstances generally, I dont think 
it was inappropriate for him to take some degree of risk with the money AFM was advising 
him about.   
The description went on to say, amongst other things, that a typical Moderate to 
Adventurous investor will be invested mainly in equities but with other assets included to 
provide some diversification. And that, because Mr M was a Low end of Moderate to 
Adventurous investor thered be slightly more invested in fixed interest and cash. 
Ive set out above the makeup of the portfolio. Aside from the property OEIC, which 
represented 10% of the portfolio, the balance of the portfolio was equity based with no fixed 
interest or cash. Arguably the high equity content may have meant the portfolio was too risky for a medium or slightly higher risk investor such as Mr M. But I bear in mind that the Aviva 
portfolio was a relatively small proportion  about 10% or just under - of Mr Ms overall fund. 
And, although all were equity based funds (in the main index tracking) there was 
diversification and a mix of UK and worldwide equities. On balance I dont think the Aviva 
portfolio was unsuitable for that portion of Mr Ms fund. 
I further note that it doesnt seem that Mr M has suffered a loss as such in respect of the 
Aviva portfolio - according to CGL, the value, as at 4 July 2022, was £4,461.62. Nor do I see 
the Aviva portfolio as being the main thrust of Mr Ms complaint. Thats directed at the losses 
hes suffered in consequence of transferring his personal pension to the SSAS and investing 
in Cape Verde via TRG. For the reasons Ive explained AFM isnt responsible for those 
losses.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman