DRN-2667617
The complaint
Mrs D is a solicitor who runs her own business as a sole practitioner. She complains that a 
software package designed to assist in case management and accounting was not of 
satisfactory quality or fit for purpose. The package was financed by LDF Operations Limited 
(LDF) and supplied by LEAP Legal Software (LEAP). Mrs D says too that the terms of the 
agreement with LDF are unfair and not enforceable.
What happened
In December 2018 Mrs D entered into a hire agreement with LDF. The agreement recorded 
that she would pay £138 a month for 36 months for the rental of case management software. 
The rental agreement included the following provisions (which I summarise):
Mrs D was to make all arrangements for the installation and testing of the software with 
LEAP (clause 1.1);
The right to use the software would be licensed to Mrs D under a licence agreed with 
LEAP (clause 1.2);
LDF gave no warranties and made no representations in respect of the software and 
would have no liability to Mrs D in relation to its quality, performance or suitability 
(clause 4.4(c));
Mrs D could terminate the agreement before the end of the three-year rental period by 
giving not less than one months notice in writing, but would then have to pay all rental 
sums due as if the agreement had run its course (with a discount for future payments of 
2% a year) (clause 6.4 and 6.3(a)(ii)).
Mrs D found that the software package did not meet her needs. I do not need to set out in 
detail the difficulties that she encountered, but I have seen copies of extensive email 
exchanges between Mrs D and LEAP, as well as offers of additional training and support in 
the months after the software was installed. It appears that Mrs D had stopped trying to use 
the software by July 2019. She also stopped making rental payments.
LDF said that the full rental payments due for the three-year hire period were due  some
£3,500, giving credit for hire payments already made. Correspondence continued between 
Mrs D and LDF. Amongst other things, Mrs D said she had cancelled the hire agreement 
within six months, as permitted by her agreement with LEAP. LDF did not agree that that 
was the case, however, and Mrs D referred the matter to this service.
In June 2020 L said that she had settled the matter on payment of £1,750  that is, around 
half of what LDF had been claiming. She had however experienced some difficulty in 
opening a bank account, because of credit scoring. She wanted to continue with the 
complaint to ensure that her credit rating remained intact.
Our investigator continued to consider the case and issued a preliminary view. She was not
persuaded that LDF had acted unfairly or that Mrs D had met the conditions needed to 
cancel the agreement. She did not believe either that there was enough evidence to show 
that the software was not fit for purpose. She didnt recommend that LDF take any further 
steps in relation to the complaint. Mrs D did not accept the investigators view and asked that 
an ombudsman review the case. 
I did that and explained that I was likely to reach the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator had. However, because my reasons for reaching that conclusion were different 
from the investigators, I issued a provisional decision. 
I concluded, provisionally, that Mrs D and LDF had reached an agreement in April 2020 
about how the dispute between them should be settled. LDF had agreed to accept and Mrs 
D had agreed to pay £1,750. That agreement had been reached following an exchange of 
offers and counter offers. I did not consider that it would be fair or reasonable to require LDF 
to do anything more to resolve Mrs Ds complaint in circumstances where they had agreed 
between them how to resolve matters. 
Mrs did not accept my provisional decision. Amongst other things, she said that I had not 
considered the structure of the deal between LEAP and LDF or that the system she bought 
was unworkable. It was unfair that there was no recourse against LDF. She said too that I 
had not considered that a term purporting to oust the protection of the Sale of Goods Act is 
unfair and unenforceable.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted what Mrs D said in response to my provisional decision. I did however consider 
the points she made before reaching that decision, even if I did not make findings on each 
and every one of them. I noted, for example, that Mrs D was not a consumer within the 
meaning of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and so did not have all the protections provided 
by that piece of legislation. I commented too on the arrangements between LEAP and LDF 
and the difficulties that Mrs D had encountered with the software.
However, Mrs D and LDF had reached an agreement expressly on the understanding that it 
was made in full and final settlement of all issues between them. I did not consider it would 
be fair to allow Mrs D, in effect, to walk away from that agreement, any more than it would be 
fair of LDF to seek further payments. In reaching that conclusion, I had in mind that Mrs D is 
a solicitor and will have understood the effect of an agreement made in full and final 
settlement of a dispute. I have not changed that view.        
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require LDF Operations Limited to do anything more to 
resolve Mrs Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman