DRN-1822061
The complaint
Mr M has complained about how Equifax Limited is showing his credit history over a period 
of time.
What happened
Mr M says that Equifax has treated him unfairly because it should have checked the 
information provided to it before logging it on his credit file. He also says it took too long to 
amend his credit file. Mr M has a separate dispute with a bank which had provided 
information to credit reference agencies including Equifax. Mr M complained to Equifax and 
it said it treated him fairly.
Equifax says its treated him fairly as it isnt the data owner and has updated his credit file as 
it should. So it doesnt feel it needs to do anymore. Mr M disagrees so he complained here. 
The investigator did not agree with Mr M. As Mr M remains unhappy this complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should add that recently Mr M has raised a number of new issues not originally considered 
by Equifax when it dealt with his complaint. I can see the Investigator has explained that it 
would be unfair of this service to consider these issues before Equifax had fair opportunity to 
do so. Mr M responded by saying that they pre-date Equifaxs decision letter on his 
complaint. That might be so-but if Equifax hasnt had opportunity to consider these issues 
then it remains unfair for this service to consider them before it has. Consequently Ill only 
consider Mr Ms complaint issues as set out by Mr M originally and addressed by Equifax 
and our Investigator.
I must emphasise that this decision is solely about Equifax and not the bank or any other 
party. Equifax is not the data owner and is only responsible for ensuring it reports what the 
bank (and other data owners) report to it. If Equifax (or any other credit reference agency) 
report information from data owners which turns out to be untrue or unfair then it is the data 
owner which is responsible for that and that is who complainants should complain to. 
It is also the case that data owners report to credit reference agencies on a cyclical basis 
and not in real time. So what is reported maybe some weeks out of date if individual 
circumstances change some weeks before the next reporting cycle. It is also of note that 
there are some third parties which report information based upon reports from credit 
reference agencies who are not credit reference agencies themselves. And these third 
parties often have a significant lag in their reporting, which might mean what they report can 
be even further out of date if their information mining is cyclical and that timing is out of step 
with the reporting of data owners to credit reference agencies. In short credit reference 
agencies are not reporting in real time the situation between consumers and data owners. 
But they should update credit files in a regular and timely fashion.
It should also be made clear that credit files are living information which change regularly 
and can be changed both concurrently and retrospectively. So out of date credit files have 
little weight as they may contain information which has since been amended or deleted or 
has dropped off due to age.
In short an individuals credit file is meant to be a guide as to that individuals credit 
worthiness over a period of time as opposed to an exact representation of their exact credit 
position in real time. 
Lastly I should add that lending decisions made by parties sit solely with those lenders and 
that lenders do not solely make lending decisions based on credit files or credit scores.
I should add at this juncture that Mr M has made many comments regarding the Laws 
regarding personal data and whether they have been adhered to in his case. As has been 
explained to Mr M, this Service defers to the Information Commissioners Office on such 
matters. And that is where he should direct those specific issues if he is so minded. But this 
service does consider whether individuals such as Mr M have been treated fairly in relation 
to their credit files.
For me to uphold this case I would need to persuaded that Equifax had treated Mr M unfairly 
by either reporting information on him which was different to what the data owner had 
informed it to be the case, or, it hadnt made changes to the reporting in a timely fashion 
when on notice from the data owner such changes needed to be made.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I do not think this complaint should be upheld. I 
say this for the following reasons.
Mr M has made a number of complaints about how Equifax operate and how they deal with 
complaints. It is not for this service to interfere with the commercial offering or decisions of 
Equifax. Furthermore complaint handling is not a regulated activity. As a consequence it is 
not within this services jurisdiction. So I cannot comment on how Equifax has dealt with his 
complaints. But I can consider the customer service he has received.
Mr M contacted Equifax in February 2019 to report what he believed to be incorrect 
information showing on his credit file. Equifax raised a dispute with the Bank, and it said the 
information was correct and did not give Equifax permission to change the data. So Equifax 
didnt change it. I do not think Equifax have acted unfairly here.
Mr M raised another dispute about the balance showing on his credit file as he felt it was out 
of date. The bank gave Equifax permission to change this data on that specific occasion but 
told Mr M it would not be amending any further data until its future monthly data updates. I 
think Equifax treated Mr M fairly and promptly on this issue.
There were further disputes raised by Mr M. In one instance, Equifax did not receive a reply 
from the bank regarding some disputed data, so said it would temporarily be removing the 
disputed data. Later the bank responded by saying the information was indeed correct and 
did not authorise Equifax to remove it. Equifax informed Mr M of this and the disputed 
information was put back on Mr Ms credit file. This is what Id expect Equifax to do in such a 
situation.
I can also see Equifax in its significant dealings with Mr M and has explained much of what I 
have already said. Mr M also points to information which was on his credit report which has since been removed or altered due to subsequent information from data owners. But as Ive 
explained credit files are living documents and what is key is that they fairly reflect up to date 
information both at the time and historically. 
Mr M has not pointed persuasively to any significant financial loss (or other forms of 
significant loss) resulting from what Equifax has done. Any issues he may have encountered 
due to either reporting by data owners or information he has seen from other parties sit with 
those parties and/or data owners.
Mr M has pointed to decisions made by his bank regarding him. But his bank makes its 
decisions at its discretion. And although it might have regard to information from Equifax in 
its decision-making Equifax is only providing sight of the information from the data owners. 
Ive not seen any persuasive evidence of Equifax not remedying information it shows in a 
timely manner when informed that information shown was inaccurate by data owners. And 
where Mr M disputes information from data owners Equifax has raised this with the data 
owner on his behalf-as it should.
Mr M has said that his reputation has been negatively affected by what has happened. Im 
not persuaded by this. Mr M hasnt demonstrated that Equifax has done anything wrong or 
hasnt remedied changing information from data owners when appropriate. So I do not see 
any significant actual reputational damage evidenced by parties other than Mr M. And if Mr 
M feels that his reputation has been damaged by the reporting of the data owners his 
complaint sits with them rather than Equifax.
Mr M also points to fluctuations in his credit score with Equifax. But as the Investigator 
explained to him lenders have their own approach to assessing creditworthiness and will 
consider a number of factors and use the information on file with a credit reference agencies 
and its own internal lending criteria. If Mr M feels he has been unfairly denied credit, he will 
need to discuss this with the potential lender in the first instance.
Ive considered the customer service Mr M has received from Equifax. Im not persuaded 
Equifax has made any significant failing here or that hes suffered significantly due to 
Equifax.
It is clear to me that Mr M is particularly vexed by issues relating to his credit file and has 
spent a substantial amount of time considering the reporting of his borrowing by various 
parties. But Im not persuaded that Equifax itself has done anything significantly wrong here. 
And any issues with Mr Ms file that Equifax have been told about by data owners have been 
remedied fairly. It has also challenged data owners on his behalf.
And although Mr M points to his reputation being impacted, Im not persuaded that there is 
any significant fault here or that Mr M has suffered financially or otherwise from any 
significant failing by Equifax specifically. All in all I see no persuasive reason to uphold Mr 
Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Equifax Limited. It has 
nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Rod Glyn-ThomasOmbudsman