DRN-2507385
The complaint
Mr B complains that ReAssure Limited mis-sold him a term assurance policy in 1992.
What happened
Mr B took out a mortgage on his home in 1992. Hes explained he was told by the lender that 
it would be more straightforward if he also took out a life policy. Mr Bs mortgage was 
increased later in 1992 and the sum assured on his life policy was also increased to cover 
the borrowing. The policy was a term assurance policy which reduced in line with the 
lending.
Mr B says he didnt need this policy as he had sufficient existing cover, and other ways of 
repaying his mortgage if he needed to. He also says he became aware it wasnt a condition 
of his mortgage.
ReAssure  who is now responsible for the policy which was sold by Mr Bs lender  
explained it was a condition of the lender at the time for borrowers of these mortgages to 
have sufficient life cover in place. It also said that as its been over 12 years since the policy 
ended, it doesnt have any details about the policy. But it says that Mr B hasnt provided 
anything to show he had the cover in place to satisfy the condition of the lending. So it didnt 
think it was mis-sold.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He explained that he thought it 
was likely it was a condition of the lending at the time to have life cover in place. He also 
explained that Mr B hadnt provided evidence of what his other life cover policy covered, how 
it was set up or who it would pay out to. The investigator noted the other cover Mr B had was 
taken originally for business lending and appeared to be useful later to cover further 
business lending. So, there was nothing to suggest it could satisfy the condition of the 
lending. The investigator also explained why pensions and equity in the house wouldnt have 
satisfied the condition.
Mr B disagreed. He felt that hed provided enough evidence to show he didnt need this 
policy as he had existing cover elsewhere. He asked for an ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome for similar reasons to the investigator.
Ive looked at the evidence Mr B has provided, and what hes said about his circumstances 
at the time. And from what Ive seen, I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
ReAssure has told us that it was a condition of the mortgage Mr B took out that life cover 
was in place to cover the whole mortgage amount and term. Whilst neither party has 
provided me with a mortgage offer to confirm this due to the time that has passed, I dont 
have reason to doubt this statement. I think it was likely there was a condition to have a 
policy in place.
Mr B has told us he had a life cover policy which had a sum assured of £100,000 at the time 
he took this policy. Hes also told us that this was taken out and assigned to a lender for a 
business loan. Mr B has told us hed repaid this loan at the time he took this new policy out 
but later took further commercial borrowing which this existing policy covered. I can see that 
the policy may have provided some cover, but Ive not been provided any evidence to show 
it was suitable to satisfy the condition of lending. I cant be sure whether the policy had an 
end date, whether the sum assured was guaranteed or who the policy would pay out to. Its 
also clear that Mr B used this policy to cover other lending. So, I cant say whether this policy 
wouldve met the condition of Mr Bs mortgage. And in any event, I dont think it made the 
term assurance policy unsuitable.
Mr B was married and had dependents at the time he took the policy. He had taken a 
mortgage out on his home and hes told us hed had business borrowing and later took on 
more. I dont think its unsuitable to have specific cover in place to repay his mortgage if hed 
passed away during the mortgage term. 
As I think its likely there was a condition to have life assurance to cover the mortgage term 
and amount, and I can see this policy did that I dont think this policy has been mis-sold. And 
Mr B hasnt provided enough evidence to show that his existing cover wouldve met this 
condition. I also dont think the presence of Mr Bs other policy wouldve made this one 
unsuitable given Mr Bs circumstances at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman