DRN-3148182
Complaint
Miss L has complained about the charges Barclays UK Bank Plc (Barclays) applied to her 
current account. Shes said the charges were unfair.
Background
Miss Ls complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that Barclays 
had done anything wrong. So she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss L 
disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ls
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with. 
That said, while Im not looking at Barclays charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Miss L if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Miss Ls 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Miss L was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were
instances where Barclays didnt treat Miss L fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where Barclays continued 
charging Miss L even though it ought to have known she was in financial difficulty or it ought 
to have realised this was the case. Ive also looked through Miss Ls statements throughout 
the period concerned I cant see that Barclays ought to have been aware that Miss L might 
have been struggling. 
Its fair to say that Miss L only used her overdraft sporadically. And while Im not seeking to 
make retrospective value judgements over Miss L expenditure, nonetheless there are 
significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions 
account going from the account. Equally the amount being credited to Miss Ls account each 
month didnt indicate that she was struggling either. So I think that Miss L was free to avoid 
using her overdraft if she was unhappy with the charges. 
So in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to have 
proceeded adding the charges that it did. And I dont think Barclays charged Miss L unfairly. 
Ive also seen what Miss L has said about being charged commission and Ive looked at the 
screenshots provided. Im not sure why Miss Ls screenshots show amounts being debited 
for commission. However, having looked at the full copies of Miss Ls statements, Im 
satisfied that the charges were for Miss Ls use of her overdraft as thats what the description 
is on these documents and the amounts charged do correspond with Miss Ls use of her 
overdraft.
As this is the case and bearing in mind what Ive already said about Barclays charging     
Miss L for her use of her overdraft in the first place, I dont think that Barclays needs to 
refund any interest, fees and charges and Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss L  especially as shes been waiting 
sometime for an answer from us. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman