DRN-1761439
The complaint
Mrs N complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has failed to credit funds 
to her account and acted unfairly in declining to pay her an account transfer reward of £125.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs N opened an account with NatWest online and was allocated a 
provisional account number. Mrs N says she did this as NatWest was offering an account 
transfer reward of £125 for new customers.
Mrs N says she visited the branch shortly after applying for the account and credited it with 
£1,500. She says this money has never been credited to her account and wants NatWest to 
refund this money. Mrs N also complains that she didnt receive her reward payment as she 
was unable to log into her online banking, which was one of the conditions for receiving the 
reward. She says she wasnt able to log on as she hadnt received the debit card for the 
account.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, she said that the bank 
had provided sufficient evidence that the £1500 was returned to Mrs N on the same day and 
that the transaction was a cash exchange, rather than a payment into the account. She also 
said that Mrs N hadnt met the conditions for receiving the transfer reward. NatWest had 
provided evidence showing that Mrs N didnt need her debit card in order to register for 
online banking so not receiving it wasnt the reason she didnt register  and therefore she 
didnt think NatWest had made a mistake in refusing to pay the reward.
Mrs N didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same reasons.
missing funds
Mrs N says she paid £1,500 into the account, which was never credited and has produced a 
receipt to show this. NatWest has provided a copy of the same receipt but one which 
includes a note that states the transaction was a cash transfer, rather than deposit  where 
the money given to the cashier was exchanged for £50 notes.
This transaction wasnt ever credited to the account so there is no evidence of it being paid 
into the account. NatWest has also confirmed that the till balanced at the end of the day.
Weve requested CCTV to try to establish whether it seems the cash was handed back to 
the consumer, but unfortunately the CCTV footage is no longer available due to the length of 
time thats passed. This isnt unusual as CCTV footage is generally only kept for a few 
months.I have however received a statement from the cashier that carried out the transaction. The 
cashier states they believe the transaction may have been put through the account initially 
then reversed so it could be done as a cash exchange instead. Unfortunately records of 
reversed transactions are only kept for a period of six months so they are no longer available 
for this transaction.
So taking all the evidence I have into account, on balance I think its likely this was a cash 
exchange and that Mrs N received the funds back in £50 notes as NatWest has said she did. 
I say this because there is no evidence that it was placed back in the till or that it was ever 
credited to the account. I find the explanation that NatWest has given  that a receipt was 
generated because the transaction was initially credited to the account then reversed  to be 
plausible. And if Mrs N hadnt received those funds back then I think its likely the tills 
wouldnt have balanced at the end of the day.
account transfer reward
To be eligible for the £125 reward payment, there were conditions that needed to be met. 
One of these conditions was that Mrs N logged into online or mobile banking before 12 July 
2019. While Mrs N says she couldnt do this because she hadnt received her debit card, 
NatWest has explained that she only needed her account number and sort code, which Mrs 
N confirms she was given on the day she applied for the account. So I havent seen any 
evidence that Mrs N was unable to register for online banking due to an error made by 
NatWest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman