DRN-4068701
The complaint
Mr K complains that an inward payment was delayed by Metro Bank PLC (Metro).
What happened
On 5 August 2022, Mr Ks solicitors made a CHAPS payment for £275,940.20 to Mr Ks 
account at Metro. It was credited to his account on 10 August 2022.
Mr K visited a branch of Metro on Friday 5 August 2022, Monday 8 August 2022. And called 
Metro on Tuesday 9 August 2022.
Mr K complained. He said Metro told him (on 5 August 2022)  that the payment would be 
credited to his account on Saturday 6 August 2022, and it wasnt. He called Metro on 9 
August 2022 - he was then told to contact the remitting bank through the sender. He then 
contacted his solicitors  who established that the payment had been held up at Metros 
processing agency bank (bank A).
Mr K said Metros staff werent aware of Metros agency bank, nor of the delays at bank A. 
They repeatedly referred him to the sending bank instead. This caused him a loss of time, 
and stress and anxiety. He said Metro should pay £120 for loss of interest and £250 
compensation.
Metro said the correct process had been followed. Metro cant trace inward payments, and 
the onus is on the sender to initiate a trace or payment recall to determine the location of the 
funds. If a payment is held up, an advice is sent to the sender of the funds by bank A.
Mr K brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said there was a delay of two days in the 
funds being received, caused by the intermediary bank A, acting as agents for Metro. The 
payment shouldve been received by Monday 8 August 2022. Mr K was also given unclear 
information which added to his worry and stress  as he was told the payment would be 
received on Saturday 6 August 2022, which was a mistake. Our investigator said Metro 
should pay compensation of £100.
Mr K didnt agree with the outcome and asked that an ombudsman look at this complaint. He 
said he should get more compensation for what happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues at the crux of Mr Ks complaint:
- The delay in the payment made on Friday 5 August 2022.
- The communications and advice given to him by Metro staff.
Payment delay: Metro told us that bank A is their processor of inward payments, and that the 
delay in receipt of funds was due to a hold up at bank A. I looked at Metros terms and 
conditions and these state that Metro is responsible for any problems at agency banks  i.e. 
bank A. They say We use other organisations to help us provide our services to you. We 
are responsible to you for their acts (or failure to act) as if they were our own.
I can see that the payment was sent at 5.11 pm on 5 August 2022  so it may well have 
missed the cut off time for that day. But  accepting that to be the case, I think its 
reasonable to consider that the CHAPS (same day) payment would be received (at the 
latest) by the next business day - Monday 8 August 2022. But it was credited on Wednesday 
10 August 2022. And  for this delay, I think Metro should be liable as per the terms and 
conditions. I can see that Mr K used an instant access savings account for his money  and 
the rate was 1.5% per annum at the time. So  Mr K lost interest of about £11 each day for 
the delay.
Communications: when Mr K visited the branch of Metro on Friday 5 August 2022  he was 
told it would be credited on Saturday 6 August 2022. But  this was never going to be 
possible as Saturday was not a business day. So - that was an error by Metro. 
On Tuesday 9 August 2022  when Mr K called Metro, he was advised to ask his solicitors to 
trace the payment. Metro told us that was correct  as they cant trace inward payments, 
nor do bank A advise them of an incoming payment, or that it is being held. 
So  what Mr K was told on Tuesday 9 August 2022 was correct. And I can see that as it 
was, his solicitors did initiate a trace (as Metro had suggested) and found that bank A had 
delayed the payment. So  Metros communications were correct in that  respect.
So in summary, Metro were wrong to advise Mr K that the payment would be received on 
Saturday 6 August 2022, but after that, they were correct to ask him to trace the payment 
through the senders (his solicitors).
The delay was caused by Bank A  and in line with Metros terms of business, Metro should 
reimburse Mr K for that. And thats in the order of £22.
So  I agree that a payment of £100 is fair and reasonable as compensation for what 
happened, to include the loss of interest and miscommunication at the branch. This is in line 
with the criteria weve set out to decide awards. This is set out at:
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Metro Bank PLC must:
- Pay compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman