DRN-2594658
The complaint
Mr S complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, (PDL) lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr S took two loans and here is a brief table. 
Loan Approved Amount Instalment figure (rounded) Repaid
1 13 April 2019 £200 £98
(3 instalments due)29 January 2020
2 31 January 
2020£300 £63
(12 instalments due)March 2021
PDL and Mr S agreed a repayment plan for loan 1 and loan 2. Current information is that 
both loans have been repaid. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that PDL ought to put things 
right for Mr S in relation to loan 2. PDL did not agree and so the complaint remained 
unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
PDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include: 
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable, but I do that consider that applicable here 
as Mr S took two loans and that is not enough to establish a pattern. 
PDL was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need 
to borrow further in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr S complaint.
  
For loan 1, Mr S was a new customer applying for a relatively modest sum for a three month 
term. Id expect PDL to be able to rely on the information he gave to it and from the details 
Ive seen its understandable that PDL thought that Mr S could afford loan 1. 
Mr S chose an interest only repayment early into the loan 1 credit agreement term which is 
an option to pay just the interest owed and delay repayment of capital for a short period. As 
the loan 1 relationship developed, Mr S informed PDL that he was having difficulties paying 
and so he agreed a repayment plan. The original term was three months but it took him 
about nine months to repay loan 1. 
PDL has said that when Mr S applied for Loan 2 they asked him additional questions 
following on from the poor repayment history on loan 1. Mr S has been reported to have 
explained that he was not struggling financially at the time he was applying for loan 2 and 
that his employment had altered in a positive way and so he felt more secure. 
PDL has informed us that Mr S declared to PDL that he had other short term loan 
commitments which cost him around £173 a month. PDL has explained that its own 
additional checks led it to raise this figure to £332 a month. The declared income, 
expenditure and the credit costs translated into Mr S having a disposable income of around 
£389 a month. PDL decided that this looked affordable as the loan 2 repayments were 
scheduled to be around £63. 
PDL has explained that at the time it approved loan 2 the highest amount repayable on this 
loan would have been £62.80 and this would have been against a disposable income of 
£389.00 which could be calculated to be 16% of the disposable income and 4% of the 
declared net monthly income of £1,649.00. I have seen on that agreement that the 
instalment sums reduced over time and ranged from around £63 to around £28 towards the 
end of the term. But for the purposes of assessing affordability I think its fair to use the 
highest repayment due which was around £63. 
The Loan 2 agreement was signed on 31 January 2020: two days after the last payment on 
loan 1. In April 2020 Mr S informed PDL that due to the national pandemic he had been furloughed. 
PDL says To confirm, the reason Mr S was not able to repay his second loan, was not due 
to the loan being issued irresponsibly, but due to the fact that he no longer had his second 
employment (he lost this 3 months after the loan was issued) and was under the
impression that he was going to be furloughed by his main employer, both these events
occurred as a result of COVID-19 which was a [sic] unprecedented circumstance, which
neither the lender or the borrower could have foreseen.
Loan 2 was approved before the national pandemic restrictions came into force in 
March 2020. And Mr S complaint inevitably rests on the responsible lending points on the 
approval date. And so, I have focussed on the time leading up to the loan 2 approval date, 
not afterwards. 
PDL agreed a new repayment plan with Mr S and as at March 2021 PDLs records show that 
Mr S has repaid loan 2. 
I asked for Mr S to obtain a copy of his credit file and I know that he took time to obtain it and 
so I want him to know Ive reviewed it. 
I asked PDL to give me additional explanations on the credit searches and additional checks 
it did for loan 2. 
There are some discrepancies in the information received and Ive had to balance up all that 
Ive seen to reach a fair and reasonable conclusion. 
Mr S credit report is from a credit reference agency which is not the one to which PDL 
reports. I am aware of that. Mr S credit report shows that he did have an outstanding short 
term loan (STL) with a high-cost lender in January 2020. The original sum was for £300 
(taken autumn 2018) and that pretty much dovetails with the information PDL has given me 
in its recent email to clarify its findings on the credit searches carried out for Mr S.  
Mr S credit file also shows me that the same high-cost lender had approved for him a loan 
double that amount - £600  around the same time in autumn 2018 and it was not settled 
until October 2020. In December 2019 it was in arrears. As it was with the same lender its 
likely that PDLs credit searches would have known of this too  another STL outstanding 
and in arrears  but PDL has not noted that so far as I can see. 
Mr S credit file also shows he had a credit card which was defaulted with a due balance of 
over £1,000 in October 2019  three months before loan 2 was approved. 
I asked PDL to explain a term used in its submissions to us in relation to the complaint 
investigation: "Secured 2yr false" and unsecured 2yr false".  PDL has explained and 
has said: This field shows if a customer has equal to or more than 3 missed payments 
within 2 years. So if  [Mr S] had 3 missed payments on a secured loan (or unsecured loan), 
this field would show as True.
But Mr S credit file sent to us shows that he was in arrears on a STL for the whole of 2019 
(as referred to above) and had a default on the credit card ending up in a default status in 
October 2019. So, these do not seem to correlate with PDLs findings that he had no such 
missed payments. 
And again  PDL has explained that this information is what it had about Mr S: more data 
from our loan management system showing that the credit file showed [Mr S] having 0 other 
outstanding AAIs and 0 defaults.AAI is the term used to denote advance against income loans which usually are STLs. 
Again, this does not seem to correlate with the information I have from Mr S credit file.
Mr S has also sent to us his bank statements and I would not necessarily have been 
expecting PDL to be reviewing bank statements from Mr S on his second loan application, 
but I have them and so to satisfy myself in light of this different information about Mr S credit 
situation, I have looked to see what the situation was by using his bank statements. In the 
period leading up to the approval of loan 2, I can see that Mr S was repaying at least four 
other high cost short term lenders. 
PDL has confirmed that it did ask Mr S a lot of additional questions prior to proceeding with 
loan 2. I think that was another indication that PDL was on notice it thought that there may 
be a problem going forward. But I dont think that it did enough. 
The combination of Mr S poor repayment history on loan 1, followed by his immediate need 
for a further loan leads me to think that PDL would be expected to have carried out 
additional checks about his regular credit repayments and his other STL or high-cost credit 
commitments. It had some information but as Ive demonstrated, the information PDL had 
does not correlate with the information I have from Mr S. 
I have decided to exercise my discretion in light of the evidence from Mr S and from PDL in 
favour of Mr S. Overall I dont think Mr S could repay loan 2 sustainably and I think a 
proportionate check wouldve shown this to PDL. I dont think it should have approved this 
loan. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress PDL should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr S after loan 1  not given loan 2 - as Im 
satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, 
answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending PDL may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr S in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So 
it wouldnt be fair to now reduce PDLs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has done 
wrong and should put right.
PDL ought to do as follows:
 refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on loan 2; and
pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about loan 2 from Mr S credit file;
.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint in part and direct that PDL Finance Limited  
trading as Mr Lender does as I have outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman