DRN-3251805
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Allianz Insurance Plc (trading as Pet Plan) have declined a claim 
under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs L purchased a pet insurance policy for her dog on 15 February 2021. Her dog suffered 
an episode of diarrhoea on 23 February 2021 and was taken to the vet a couple of days 
later.  
Around a month later, on 26 March 2021, Mrs Ls dog was taken to the vet again as he was 
unwell with another bout of diarrhoea. Mrs L submitted a claim to cover the cost of treatment. 
Pet Plan declined the claim and explained the policy doesnt cover any illness that occurred 
in the first 14 days of the policy. And this illness wouldnt be covered for the duration of the 
policy. 
Mrs L complained as she felt the two episodes of diarrhoea werent related. Her vet said the 
diarrhoea in February 2021 was expected as the puppy was in a new environment and they 
suspected a food intolerance as the cause in March 2021.
Pet Plan reassessed the claim but maintained their decision to reject the claim. They 
explained their vets opinion was that Mrs Ls dogs illness was linked due to a possible food 
allergy.
Our investigator said that Pet Plan hadnt acted unfairly by declining the claim under the 
policy terms and conditions. Mrs L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. I know Mrs L will be disappointed, so Ill explain why.
The policy terms and conditions say that Pet Plan wont cover the cost of any treatment for 
an illness which starts in the first 14 days of cover.
Illness which starts in the first 14 days of cover is defined under the policy:
 Any illness that showed clinical signs in the first 14 days of a) your pets first 
policy first 14 days of cover: year, or b) the section being added to your 
insurance.
 Any illness that has the same diagnosis or clinical signs, as an illness that 
showed clinical signs, in the first 14 days of a) your pets first policy year, or b) the 
section being added to your insurance.
 Any illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, a clinical sign that was
noticed in the first 14 days of a) your pets first policy year, or b) the section being
added to your insurance.
 Any illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from an illness that showed 
clinical signs, in the first 14 days of a) your pets first policy year, or b) the section 
being added to your insurance.
Based on this, I think its reasonably clear that the policy wont cover any illness that showed 
clinical signs in the first 14 days of the policy. It also wont cover any illness that has the 
same clinical signs, as an illness that showed clinical signs in the first 14 days of the policy.
Illness is defined as: 
Any change(s) to a normal healthy state, sickness, disease, defects and 
abnormalities including defects and abnormalities your pet was born with or were 
passed on by his/her parents.
Clinical sign(s) is defined as:
A change(s) in your pets normal healthy state, bodily functions or behaviour.
Having considered this, Im satisfied that diarrhoea is an illness as defined under the policy 
terms and conditions as its a change to the dogs normal healthy state. 
Since Mrs Ls dog suffered with diarrhoea  an illness under the policy definition which 
started within the first 14 days of the policy starting, its not covered under the policy.
I appreciate diarrhoea generally can occur in a number of causes. But even considering this, 
the policy terms exclude any illness that has the same clinical signs as an illness that 
showed clinical signs within the first 14 days. 
This means the second episode is also not covered under the policy, as diarrhoea is an 
illness which showed the same clinical signs in March 2021 as it did within the first 14 days 
of the policy. As such, I dont agree Pet Plan declined Mrs Ls claim unfairly. 
Ive thought about Mrs Ls point that the two episodes werent related as her dog wasnt 
unwell for nearly a month before it occurred again. But I still dont think Mrs Ls claim would 
be successful. 
I say this because Mrs Ls vet didnt provide a diagnosis. They gave a view on possible 
causes. They suggested that in February 2021, diarrhoea could be expected as the puppy 
was in a new environment and in March 2021, they suspected a food intolerance. 
Pet Plans vet was of the view that Mrs Ls dog already had food intolerance which is why he 
required a hypoallergenic diet. 
Having weighed up both the expert opinions, I find the opinion of Pet Plans vet to be more 
compelling, particularly as I can see from the clinical notes, Mrs L was given advice on her 
dogs diet during both episodes. Also, the hypoallergenic diet seems to have resolved the 
problem. So, I think its more likely than not that both instances of illness were linked.But in any event, as Ive explained, the wording of the exclusion in the policy term means its 
enough that Mrs Ls dog displayed the same clinical sign both times. So even if the two 
episodes didnt have the same diagnosis or werent linked  Mrs Ls claim wouldnt be 
successful as her dog displayed the same clinical sign during both episodes.
All things considered, Im satisfied that Pet Plan declined Mrs Ls claim fairly and in line with 
the policy terms and conditions.
I know Mrs L is concerned about the potential impact on future claims, but I cant consider 
something that hasnt happened yet. Wed expect Pet Plan to deal with all claims promptly 
and fairly  and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
If Mrs L has any problems in the future, she can complain to Pet Plan at the time and 
ultimately to our service. Well consider each complaint on its own merits to decide if a claim 
has been dealt with fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman