DRN-3814665
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited trading as Cabot Financial 
(Europe) Limited is seeking to recover a debt that isnt hers. 
What happened
In March 2022 Cabot acquired a debt in Mrs Gs name from a company Ill call J. Cabot sent 
a Notice of Assignment (NOA) giving details of the change in ownership, outstanding 
balance and new arrangements to the address provided by J. Cabot also instructed a third 
party business (M) to contact Mrs G to discuss the account. 
M carried out a tracing exercise via a credit reference agency and found Mrs Gs details. M 
contacted Mrs G about the debt but she advised it belongs to someone else. Mrs G says M 
went on to confirm shed been traced in error and wouldnt receive further contact about the 
debt. M returned the account to Cabot. 
Cabot wrote to Mrs G at the updated address and asked her to make contact to talk about 
repayment. Mrs G went on to raise a complaint with Cabot and again explained it was 
chasing the wrong person. 
Mrs G referred her complaint to this service. Cabot went on to issue its final response to Mrs 
G. Cabot said it had contacted J, the original owner of the debt, and it had confirmed the 
address the account was opened at is the same as Mrs Gs. J also said the address 
recorded on the account had been updated in 2021 and that no payments had been made 
since 2020. The information provided by J said the account Cabot had acquired was opened 
by Mrs G in 2018 at her current address. 
Cabot apologised that Ms response to her complaint indicated it had traced the wrong 
person and offered her £30 in vouchers. But Cabot said it was confident it had traced the 
right person and didnt agree it had harassed Mrs G. An investigator at this service looked at 
Mrs Gs complaint. They thought Cabot had dealt with Mrs Gs case fairly and didnt ask it to 
do anything else. 
Mrs G asked to appeal and said Cabot had updated the address recorded against the 
account on her credit file. Mrs G accepted shed opened an account with J in 2018 but said it 
had later been fraudulently linked to an unrecognised address without her knowledge. As 
Mrs G asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G has told us the address was fraudulently amended in 2021 and that she doesnt owe 
the funds Cabot is seeking to collect. I want to explain that, in this decision, I can only look at 
Cabots actions and whether its acted fairly by relying on the information it holds about the 
debt when pursuing Mrs G. 
Cabots forwarded a copy of the original credit agreement that was supplied by J. The credit 
agreement contains Mrs Gs details and an account number. I note the address matches the 
one Mrs Gs given us. J says the last payment it received was in 2020 and that it changed 
the address around a year later in 2021. But J has confirmed that the address on the 
account Mrs G opened in 2018 was amended in 2021. 
I think its fair to note the NOA letters sent by both Cabot and J contain the same reference 
number as the credit agreement we have on file. And Cabots told us its agent, M, was able 
to trace Mrs Gs address via information it obtained from the credit reference agencies that 
also links the two addresses. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G, but Im satisfied the information 
on file shows the account Cabot is now seeking to collect is the one she opened in 2018. 
Mrs Gs told us the amounts owed to J are due to fraud. But the debt came about whilst the 
account was still with J. Should J go on to confirm Mrs Gs debt did come about as a result 
of fraud and isnt Mrs Gs responsibility, Id expect Cabot to cooperate to resolve the 
situation. I leave it to Mrs G to decide how she wishes to proceed with J. 
In response to the investigator, Mrs G said Cabot had delayed any fraud investigation thats 
required. I appreciate Mrs Gs concerns were first raised with M earlier this year. And I can 
see it took a reasonable amount of time for Cabot to issue its final response. But Cabot had 
to go back to J for information about Mrs Gs account which impacted how long it took to 
respond. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G, but I havent been persuaded that Cabot has acted 
unfairly. 
As Im satisfied Cabot has dealt with Mrs Gs complaint fairly Im not telling it to take further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman