DRN-3775045
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) has 
refused to refund him money he lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
Mr T was looking to invest money and found an advertisement online for a company that I 
will call C on Facebook. He called the number given on the advert and was put through to a 
broker. He persuaded Mr T to install remote access software and to purchase crypto with the 
end goal of this then being invested in commodities such as oil.
 Mr T sent a total of £46,934 to C from his Virgin current account as set out below;
Transaction 
NumberDate Merchant Amount Running Total
1 02/11/2021 Swissborg solution - £71.00 - £71.00
2 02/11/2021 MB Swissborg solution £ 5,000 £ 4,929
3 02/11/2021 MB Swissborg solution £ 2,000 £ 6,929
4 04/11/2021 MB Swissborg solution £ 20,000 £ 26,929
5 05/11/2021 MB Swissborg solution £ 15,000 £ 41,929
6 08/11/2021 MB Swissborg solution £ 5,000 £ 46,929
7 10/11/2021 Refund from Swissborg 
solution-£ 4,995 £ 41,934
8 10/11/2021 Coinbase £5,000 £ 46,934
9 10/11/2021 Refund from Coinbase £ 5,000 £ 41,934
10 11/11/2021 Coinbase £2,400 £ 44,334
11 11/11/2021 Refund from Coinbase £2,400 £ 41,934
12 11/11/2021 MB Foris Dax Mt Li £100 £ 42,034
13 11/11/2021 MB Foris Dax Mt Li £4,900 £ 46,934 Mr T attempted to withdraw his profits but was told that he was unable to do so without 
paying additional funds. Mr T was encouraged to take out a loan by C (which he did not do) 
and at this point he realised that he had been scammed. 
He raised a complaint regarding this matter and asked for the transactions to be refunded. 
Virgin did not agree with this as they felt they had acted correctly. Mr T therefore referred his 
complaint to our service.
I issued a Provisional Decision on 4 May 2023 explaining why I provisionally was upholding 
this complaint. In that decision, I said the following;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The circumstances of this complaint are 
not in dispute and the evidence provided by both Mr T and Virgin set out what happened. 
What is in dispute is whether Virgin should refund any of the money Mr T lost because of the 
scam. 
Mr T has accepted he authorised the payments he made, so the starting point here is that Mr 
T is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a 
duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due 
diligence on unusual transactions to guard against money laundering and the financial harm 
caused by fraud and scams.
The second transaction I believe should have been considered unusual and Virgin agrees 
with this as it did get flagged and a conversation was had with Mr T. I have listened to this 
conversation, and I do not think that it went far enough. Virgin should have asked Mr T in 
depth questions to find out what the payments related to. Had Virgin done so at this point, I 
think its likely Mr T would have explained the reason he was making this transaction was to 
purchase crypto before sending it on to C who was going to trade on his behalf. I think he 
would have also explained that he had installed remote access software on his account to 
facilitate this and he did not really understand what he was doing. This is shown by the fact 
that he did admit this during the call on 10 November 2021. It is clear from the calls that I 
have listened to that Mr T had not been coached and was readily forthcoming about what he 
was doing and why.
This should really have prompted Virgin not just to warn Mr T of how scams operate but to 
say that it is likely that he was being scammed as the above as his experience had all the 
hallmarks of common crypto scams  which ought to have been well known to Virgin as the 
financial professional. Im satisfied that a warning from Mr Ts trusted bank would have 
probably alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to crypto scams, which in turn 
would have revealed the truth behind the Cs representations. This would have probably 
stopped Mr T in his tracks. So, but for Virgins failure to act on clear triggers of potential 
fraud or financial harm, Mr T probably wouldnt have made the additional payments.
Virgin may argue that it did ask sufficient questions during the 10 November 2021 call and 
did provide sufficient warnings at this point and yet Mr T still transferred on further funds. But 
whilst I accept that more questions were asked during this call and general warnings were 
given. I dont think that the warnings went far enough. Mr T had admitted he was using a 
broker and was sending crypto on to a third party who was trading on his behalf using 
remote access to his computer. I think the member of staff really should have identified that 
based on what he had described he was almost certainly being scammed. In other words, it 
could have prevented further payments had Virgin gone further.In addition to the expectations on Virgin to have effective fraud prevention systems in place, 
its expected that customers should take responsibility for their decisions. In the 
circumstances I dont think it would be fair to say Mr T contributed to the loss. I say this 
because Mr T had no previous experience in this type of investment and was lulled into a 
false sense of security by a business that went to great lengths to appear to be legitimate. I 
cant see that there were any warnings in place about C when Mr T was being scammed. 
So, I dont think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that Mr T should share 
blame for what happened.
Putting things right
1) Refund all transactions from transaction 2. Minus any transactions already refunded.
2) Pay simple interest at 8% simple per year from the date of each transaction to the date of 
settlement less appropriate tax.
Mr T did not respond with any additional points. Virgin did respond and in summary said the 
following: 
That it does not believe any further warning or discussions would have uncovered the 
scam or stopped Mr T making the payments that he made. 
That there was a detailed discussion about Mr T giving a third-party access to his 
computer and a sufficient warning was given to Mr T about this. Mr T explained his 
reasons for giving access and this was sufficient to nullify the call handlers concerns 
about this issue.
There were not a sufficient number of red flags presented to the call handler for him 
to solidly conclude that it was likely that Mr T was being scammed.
That given that there were no warnings about C at the time, it would have been 
incredibly difficult to dissuade Mr T from making the transactions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to the points that Virgin have raised, I remain of the opinion that more stringent 
questioning would have uncovered that Mr T was being scammed. And had this been 
uncovered and a stronger warning given, I dont think that Mr T wouldve continued to 
transfer money to the scammer.
To explain further, Virgin says that there are some legitimate uses of brokers and remote 
access software, so the call handler being told that Mr T was using a broker and had allowed 
him access to his computer should not have alerted the call handler to the likelihood that Mr 
T was being scammed.
I dont think that this is correct. I accept that there may be occasions when someone would 
allow a third-party access to their computer. I fail to see how a legitimate trading company 
would ever require a broker to access someones personal computer to place trades on 
behalf of a consumer. In my view, a broker requesting access to a clients personal 
computer so that it can execute trades ought to have been a very clear red flag that a scam 
is taking place as this is a common feature of investment scams.When this information was uncovered, given that Virgin should be the experts on what 
constitutes a scam, I think that Mr T should really have been given a clear warning and 
Virgin should have explained how investment scammers operate in order to help Mr T 
identify that he was potentially being scammed. I think a clear warning would likely have 
uncovered to Mr T that he was potentially falling victim to a scam. 
I also remain of the opinion that if Mr T was told that he was likely being scammed, I dont 
think he would have continued with the transactions. I say this because regardless of there 
not being specific warnings about C online at the time, a warning from his bank who are 
financial professionals would likely have been heeded. Also, if Mr T, after receiving such a 
warning, had done some research on common scams regarding trading and remote access 
software, he likely would have found multiple warnings online about the dangers of doing 
this. 
So overall, I am of the opinion that Virgin should have intervened further during the calls it 
had with Mr T and had it done so, I am satisfied that the scam would have stopped at 
transaction 2. I remain of the opinion that Virgin should pay redress in line with what I 
outlined in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
1) Refund all transactions from transaction 2. Minus any transactions already refunded.
2) Pay interest at 8% simple per year from the date of each transaction to the date of 
settlement less appropriate tax.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require 
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) to put matters right, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman