DRN-2977378
The complaint
Miss R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt update her credit file.
What happened
Miss R had two credit cards from Lloyds. One of them had a balance of £12075.02 when the 
May 2021 statement was produced. Three credits totalling £11954.27 were paid into the 
account on 6 May 2021, 7 May 2021 and 10 May 2021. Miss Rs credit file was updated to 
show the new balance on 18 July 2021.
Miss R complained that she expected her credit file to be updated on 10 May 2021  to show 
that the balance was repaid. As a result, she was declined a mortgage in principle and 
therefore wasted the reservation fee, a 10% deposit, plus mortgage advisors fees and legal 
fees shed already paid - and thought she would also lose the property she wanted to buy. 
Shed called the credit reference agency (CRA) in question in 26 May 2021 about this and 
was told that Lloyds had advised her outstanding balance was still £11954. So  Lloyds had 
misinformed the CRA. 
Lloyds said they only supplied updated details to CRAs on a monthly basis. So, it might take 
up to four to six weeks to update Miss Rs credit file. 
Miss R brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said that credit files take four to six 
weeks to update, and it couldnt be done overnight. Also, lenders interpret credit file 
information as they wish, with many factors being considered. So  the declined decision 
may not have been due to the balance shown on Miss Rs credit file.
Miss R asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
By 10 May 2021, Miss R had paid off the balance on her credit card. She was in the process 
of applying for a mortgage  but because the balance on her card continued to show around 
£12000, she says her mortgage application was declined. This cost her a lot of money in 
legal and advisors fees shed paid. And she says she was likely to lose the property she 
wanted to buy.
The crux of Miss Rs complaint is two-fold. Firstly, she expected her credit file to be updated 
immediately  and so it would show a nil balance. And secondly, she says that Lloyds 
misinformed the CRA on 26 May 2021 by saying that the balance was £11954  when it was 
zero, or close to zero.
On the first point, its a fact that all banks, including Lloyds, only send information to the 
CRAs every four to six weeks. This is because of the practicalities of advising masses of 
data relating to all lending and current accounts. Its not a real time updating process. 
Looking at Miss Rs credit report, Ive seen that Lloyds updated Miss Rs records with the 
CRA on 18 July 2021  that shows how long it takes. Miss R has said there should be a way 
that this can be shortened for individual cases  but I cant see that can be practical. In any 
case, we cant tell Lloyds (or any bank) to change their processes in that respect  thats a 
matter for the regulators, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
On the second point  the message dated 26 May 2021 from the CRA says Im writing in 
relation to your recent query with Lloyds Bank Credit Card. Theyve confirmed the balance 
had been updated to £11954 and the balance is accurate. Miss R considers this means that 
Lloyds made an error. But I think it means that because Lloyds hadnt, at that point, 
uploaded new data to the CRA, then the balance as regards the CRA reporting (and 
therefore Miss Rs credit file) was correct. But  Im mindful that this message was written by 
the CRA, and Miss Rs complaint is about Lloyds. So  Miss R might want to take this up 
with the CRA. But, based on what Ive seen, I cant say that Lloyds acted incorrectly.
Miss R says that as a result of what happened, her mortgage application was declined. The 
messages she showed us doesnt give a reason. But our investigator is correct  lenders 
might decline an application based on several reasons, and no one can be sure what the 
reason was in Miss Rs case. And usually, lenders wont be willing to give a specific reason. 
But in any case, as I dont think Lloyds were at fault, the point isnt very relevant.
I can appreciate where Miss R is coming from, and sense her frustration, but in conclusion, I 
wont be asking Lloyds to do anymore here.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman