DRN-3985935
The complaint
Mr T has complained about his car insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited in relation to 
an incident where a pedestrian alleged he was caused injury by the car Mr T was driving. 
Admiral settled the pedestrians injury claim and sought to recover its outlay from Mr T, 
which Mr T feels is unfair.
What happened
Mr T, in his car, was in a designated drop-off/pick-up spot when a security guard asked him 
to move. Mr T did move but whilst he was doing so the security guard ended up on the 
ground. The police became involved and whilst Mr T was initially charged with dangerous 
driving, he later pleaded guilty to a lesser charge of driving without due car and attention. 
Admiral said it wouldnt offer indemnity to Mr T under the policy. It sought his consent to deal 
with the injury claim from the guard but when Mr T did not give it, Admiral obtained a form of 
assignment from the injured party. This meant that the injured party passed his right to claim 
against Mr T to Admiral. Admiral then settled the guards injury claim with a payment of 
£5,000. 
Admiral noted its total outlay for the claim was £6,802.50. It asked Mr T to repay that to it. 
Mr T was unhappy about that, for a number of reasons. Essentially, he felt Admiral had no 
legal basis for this and that to ask him to do this, in the circumstances here, was unfair and 
unreasonable. When Admiral wouldnt provide other detail or a further review which Mr T 
had asked it for, he complained to us.
Our Investigator felt Admiral had acted reasonably. So she didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T 
disagreed with her findings, so his complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision. I felt it should be upheld so I issued a provisional decision to explain my views and 
what I felt was needed to put things right. My provisional findings were:
I know that Mr T has asked some very specific questions of Admiral in his complaint. But 
I think its fair to say that, at the heart of all of this, sits Admirals recovery request. 
Mr Ts car was not damaged in this incident and nor did he make a claim on the policy. The 
costs Admiral is looking for Mr T to reimburse were incurred by it in settling the injury claim 
from the guard. Mr T thinks Admiral had no right to do that. He notes it did not get consent 
from him to act on his behalf. He also notes that Admiral settled the claim without a court 
judgment requiring it do so  and the Road Traffic Act which Admiral has sought to rely on 
as a reason for it settling the claim, requires a judgment to have been made.
The strict interpretation of the Road Traffic Act is that a judgment is required. But in practice 
most insurers will not let matters progress so far. In reality most insurers will be able to spot 
incidences that are likely to lead to judgments being achieved that would then force them, 
under the Act, to make payments to others. And they will also know that letting matters 
progress to the point of court action and judgments means costs increase. So, in practice, 
insurers may, early on, look to get a form of consent from their policyholder or a form of 
assignment from the claiming party. If one form is agreed to then the other is not required as 
either allows the insurer to assume liability for the claim, taking it on and settling it as it sees 
fit, and then approaching its policyholder for reimbursement. Here Admiral felt the Act might 
ultimately apply and it obtained a form of assignment from the complaining party. So, in 
practical terms, I think Admiral acted fairly and reasonably, as this service would expect it to, 
in relation to potential liability under the Road Traffic Act.  
But the Road Traffic Act only comes into play at all when the policy wont respond. If Admiral 
provides indemnity to Mr T under the policy, then it wont have liability as the Road Traffic 
Act insurer at all and cant reasonably look to Mr T to reimburse its outlay. Clearly Admiral 
felt it was within its rights to refuse indemnity for this incident  meaning it would potentially 
have to respond as the Road Traffic Act insurer to any judgment, causing it to act practically 
as Ive detailed above. So Ive looked at whether Admirals view in that respect is fair and 
reasonable. 
As Mr Ts car was not damaged and he was not claiming under his policy, the applicable 
section of cover was that regarding liability to others. As with other sections of cover, there 
are related exclusions. But Admiral did not base its decline of the claim on any of them. 
Rather Admiral said Mr T had acted in contravention of his licence and or deliberately to 
cause injury  both of which form part of the general exceptions to cover section. It also 
referred to General Condition 3 of the policy.
Im not sure why Admiral has sought to rely on General Condition 3. This condition does 
refer to inappropriate acts of the driver mitigating its liability. But is not about injury to 
others. It is entitled Care of your car. And refers specifically to Admirals liability, and 
mitigation thereof, for loss of or damage to the insured vehicle. That does not seem to apply 
in this circumstance where Mr Ts car was not damaged and the claim has come from a 
pedestrian regarding personal injury. So, even given the criminal motoring conviction which 
may well indicate that Mr T acted inappropriately, I dont think Admiral had grounds to 
decline Mr Ts claim on the basis of a breach of General Condition 3.
Turning to the general exception for acting in contravention of the driving licence, I similarly 
am not sure why Admiral has sought to rely on this. Admiral did not explain its reason for 
attempted reliance on this exception. To my mind, that exception, for example, would 
normally be applied if someone drove a class of vehicle they were not permitted to drive by 
their licence classification. I dont think Admiral had grounds to decline the claim on the basis 
of a breach of this general exception.
The other general exception that Admiral thinks applies here is that related to deliberate acts 
of the driver. Mr T points out that he was not charged with or convicted of any act which 
included any intent from him. And I note that Admiral has mistakenly recorded on its file, at 
around the time it was considering its liability for this incident, that Mr T was convicted of 
dangerous driving. However, its important here to remember that there is a difference 
between the criminal matter and the parties rights and obligations under the car insurance 
policy. The latter is a civil issue. As such Admiral is not bound by the findings of the court in 
the criminal matter. Admiral is free to reach its own conclusions, based on the balance of 
probabilities, about how Mr T acted and how that action sits against the policy terms. So, just 
because Mr T was not convicted of any deliberate act, does not mean that Admiral cant 
determine Mr T most likely acted deliberately  which would mean that he falls foul of the 
policy exception and it could reasonably decline liability under the policy for this incident. 
However, this service is aware that any allegation by an insurer of a deliberate act on the 
part of its policyholder has significant and sometimes severe consequences for them. As 
such we expect any insurer intending to rely on a deliberate act defence to support its 
allegation with strong evidence. An insurer feeling that its policyholder acted deliberately 
will likely not be sufficient to support an attempt to rely on a deliberate act exclusion to decline liability for cover. So Ive looked at how Admiral came to conclude that Mr T had 
acted deliberately, to see if I think that was a fair and reasonable conclusion for it to make. 
Admirals argument centres on it believing that Mr T acted deliberately, once the car had 
started, to turn the wheel towards the curb, before then moving in that direction and then 
correcting the cars angle to drive away. Admiral primarily reached its conclusion about what 
Mr T did having viewed CCTV footage of the incident. Admiral was provided with footage 
taken from cameras sited at positions on the street ahead of and behind the drop-off/pick-up 
spot. So the views from the front and rear of the car were seen. But Admiral has confirmed it 
had not relied on the view from the front when making its decision. Having seen the footage 
myself I think that is likely because at the moment, just before the car starts to move but 
after the engine was switched on, for a second, the camera pans away. The camera only 
tuns back to the car as it moves away from the curb (having moved towards it since the 
engine was started and the camera moved). 
But I think this angle does hold the best view possible of the front tyres. That said I dont 
think they are that clear  the image is somewhat grainy and I dont think its possible to 
know which way the front tyres were facing before car the moved off. Visibility of the front 
tyres is worse in the footage from the rear  the image is also grainy and the angle is from 
above, meaning the car, including the rear wheels, mostly hides the front tyres from view. 
Further, following the point when the engine is switched on, a pedestrian and the injured 
party, further obscure the front left tyre from view. 
So I dont think its possible to reasonably determine from the CCTV footage what position 
the front tyres were most likely in before the car started to move. Clearly the car does move 
to the left, towards the curb, before the angle is changed to drive away. But I dont think the 
CCTV shows that Mr T did that deliberately. 
I know Admiral has also suggested that Mr T hasnt been truthful in his recollection of events 
because he said he indicated to move away to the right before starting to move (at which 
point the car, as described, moved momentarily to the left), but this isnt supported by the 
CCTV footage. I think Admiral is wrong in that respect. From the front it isnt clear if the 
indicator comes on before the car moves away. But it was sunny and even as the car 
moves, the blink of the indicator is difficult to pick up. However, I think the footage from the 
rear does show the blink of the right-hand indicator before the car starts to move. So Im not 
persuaded that Admirals concern in this respect, which I think it sees as adding weight to its 
conclusion that Mr T acted deliberately, is valid.
Admirals claims handler has explained that, having seen the car move to the left and then 
sharply to the right, it is their opinion that the car was moved deliberately by Mr T. I dont 
think that seeing the car move speaks at all to Mr Ts intention. As far as I can see the only 
two points that have otherwise gone towards that finding are the angle of the tyres before the 
car moved, which Admiral believes were straight, and that Mr T did not indicate as he said 
he had. However, as Ive said, I dont think the footage shows the angle of the tyres and Im 
satisfied that Mr T did indicate. So Im not satisfied that Admiral reached a fair and 
reasonable conclusion that Mr T acted deliberately to move the car towards the curb, and 
the injured party, before driving away.
Which means that Admiral, in my view, cant fairly and reasonably refuse to provide 
indemnity to Mr T under the policy. Which also means that Admiral cant expect Mr T to 
reimburse its outlay for the third-partys claim. Admiral should confirm to Mr T that its outlay 
is covered under his policy and cease chasing him for payment. 
I know Mr T disputes part of Admirals outlay. He thinks it unreasonably settled with the 
third-party for £5,000. But Im satisfied that Admiral made the offer it did having taken into account what the third-party was looking for, relevant medical evidence received and 
considering what a court would likely award given that medical evidence. I note that 
Admirals settlement was less than what had been claimed for. So I dont think it could fairly 
be said that it just agreed to the claim and settled it without consideration. Im not persuaded 
that Admiral did anything wrong in this respect. As such Im not going to ask Admiral to 
review this further  the claim outcome will reflect this settlement amount.  
Im aware that Mr T thinks Admiral caused delays in the criminal proceedings. I havent seen 
any evidence of that. It did take a long time for the criminal case to be heard in court  in the 
end the trial took place in February 2020 (the incident having occurred in 2017). And Admiral 
did want to attend the trial. But it had no part to play in organising it. I know Mr Ts solicitor 
did contact Admiral and Admiral, as far as a I can see, assisted with its enquiries. So I dont 
think I can fairly say Admiral likely caused delays in this respect. And whilst it isnt clear to 
me why Admiral felt the need to put its decision on the third-party claim on hold pending the 
outcome of the criminal trial, I dont think Mr Ts position was negatively affected as a result.
Mr T did not have a claim under the policy for this event. So he wasnt waiting on any 
decision by Admiral to find out if he had cover for his own losses or damages. And Admirals 
file shows that regarding Mr Ts liability for the third-partys claim, he had been told in 2017 
that whilst it would consider whether his fault in this matter could be defended to any degree, 
it was not hopeful of a successful outcome. Further, whilst I think Admiral had formed an 
idea about how it might settle the third-partys claim in 2019, it didnt make any settlement 
until after it had obtained the agreement from the third-party in 2020. It was then only 
October 2020 that it chose to seek recovery from Mr T, with it first contacting him in this 
respect in November 2020. It was after Mr T had received the recovery letter that he 
resumed challenging Admirals decision. So I dont think that Admiral, handing the claim as it 
did, caused Mr T any additional distress and inconvenience.
Clearly Mr T was upset by that notice of recovery action. And given what Ive said above 
about Admirals decision on the third-party claim, that was upset it was responsible for and 
which could have been avoided. That resulted in Mr T complaining to Admiral. Admiral then, 
whilst it was meant to have answered Mr Ts complaint within eight weeks, took six-months 
to provide a final response to him. During which time Mr T was living with the worry of being 
asked to pay Admiral over £6,000 (the settlement amount plus its costs). As I understand it 
though, recovery action of this nature will not result in Mr Ts credit history being affected. 
I think Admiral should pay £500 compensation to Mr T for the upset it has caused him. 
I know Admiral, at times, referred to Mr T as having been convicted of dangerous driving. 
But I see Admiral accepts that it made a mistake by referring to that. Admiral is aware that 
Mr T was convicted of driving without due care and attention (careless rather than 
dangerous driving) and its confirmed this, and the fact of its previous error, in a letter to 
Mr T. I think that sufficiently resolves this particular issue. Im not going to ask Admiral to do 
anything more in this respect.
Mr T said he accepted my provisional decision. Admiral said it disagreed with it. Admiral 
asked that I review the CCTV footage again. It said it clearly shows the cars wheels moving 
to the left, hitting the pedestrian, and turning to the right to move away. It said our opinion 
on watching the footage a number of times is the footage does show [Mr T] turned his 
wheels towards the third party given the angle the vehicle is originally at and the view of the 
wheels available. Admiral said it is further concerned this was intentional because Mr T did 
not stop at the scene even though he must have felt the impact.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the footage again. Id first say that I dont think it is clear that Mr T hit the 
guard with any force  and not with the front wheel. So I dont think Mr T would necessarily 
have felt the impact. Even if he did, that does not mean he left because he had deliberately 
hit the guard. I am not saying Mr T did the right thing in driving away  merely trying to 
highlight that there is more than one likely outcome for what happened. 
As for what the footage shows about the direction of the wheels, I still think that is unclear. 
Their angle, from the front or rear perspective, whilst the car is stationary, given the vantage 
point of each camera and its distance from the car, is not visible. And, in the rear footage, as 
the car begins to move, the front left wheel is mostly obscured by pedestrians between the 
camera and the car. Clearly the front wheels did take the car towards the curb, allowing the 
contact with the pedestrian but I still dont think the footage shows us why, or when, the 
wheel was turned in that direction. And Im mindful that Mr T, all along, has said the wheels 
were angled that way and he just hadnt corrected their direction before setting off. 
I come back to what I explained provisionally  Admiral, if it wants to show that Mr T acted 
deliberately, reasonably needs more than opinion to support its position. Clearly Admiral 
believes the CCTV footage supports it in this respect  but, as explained, I am satisfied that 
is not the case. And Ive also explained why the other concerns Admiral gave also dont 
support its position. I remain of the view that Admiral has not shown that Mr T most likely 
acted deliberately to cause the accident. As such Admirals decline of liability under the 
policy for this incident was not fair or reasonable.
Putting things right
I require Admiral to:
Change the record it has made for the third party claim to show it was accepted and that 
settlement under that claim was paid.
Cease viewing Mr T as owing it the sum of its outlay and end the recovery proceedings.
Pay Mr T £500 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to provide the redress 
set out at Putting things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman