DRN-2530294
The complaint
Mr B complains that he couldnt reject a faulty caravan obtained through a Hire Purchase 
Agreement with Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) but was pressured into a part exchange. 
And that he didnt get his original deposit refunded. He would like the deposit refunded, to be 
paid the difference between his original caravan and the replacement one and compensation 
for distress and inconvenience .
What happened
 Mr B says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement for a used caravan in August 2017. He 
says unfortunately there was a problem with mould which wasnt resolved by repair. He says 
at that point he wanted to reject the caravan but was told he couldnt. As a result, he says he 
felt pressured to take out another agreement. The first part exchange he was offered was 
more than he could afford but he did finally agree to a further part exchange offer.
He is also not happy that he hasnt received a refund for his original deposit.
Finally, he says he has now sold the caravan but the whole situation has caused him a 
considerable degree of distress.
Black Horse said it had no evidence that Mr B had either wanted to, or had been told he 
couldnt, reject the caravan when the repair failed. It said the finance, including deposit 
payments, were agreed by Mr B prior agreements being signed.
Black Horse offered Mr B £200 for the distress and inconvenience of having to deal with the 
mould issue and the resultant loss of enjoyment of the caravan.
Our investigator initially partially upheld the complaint. He found no evidence of Mr B being 
misled into part exchanging for another caravan rather than being allowed to reject the first 
one. But he didnt feel the deposit figures added up, so he recommended that Black Horse: -
Investigated the deposit amount Mr B paid
Refunded the deposit Mr B should have received paying 8% simple interest on this 
sum from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Mr B didnt accept this view. He was disappointed that no compensation had been 
recommended as a penalty for poor practice and for the distress and inconvenience to him. 
He reiterated  he wasnt given an option to reject  the caravan which he has now sold leaving 
him with  a much bigger debt to settle than he would have had with the first caravan.
Black Horse investigated Mr Bs deposit as per our investigators recommendation. It gave a 
breakdown of the figures for the different purchases showing no refund of deposit was due.
Our investigator considered the information provided by both sides and as a result no longer 
upheld Mr Bs complaint.  He gave a detailed breakdown of the finance for each agreement 
showing no deposit refund was due
He accepted Mr B had received  a letter from Black Horse asking for settlement on the 
caravan and that this would have caused Mr B some distress. But he explained that the 
letter related to the second agreement which was subsequently unwound when the third 
agreement was reached. He said at this point Black Horse would not have known Mr B had 
a complaint and its letter was a  standard one.
Black Horse accepted this second view
Mr B accepted there was no deposit due back to him. But said he still felt he had lost out by 
£1500 in exchanging a faulty caravan. And that there was a surplus deposit due back to him.  
He said he had been offered £500 off site fees for life not fixed site fees as Black Horse 
stated
He accepted Black Horse hadnt been informed of the faulty goods until January 2020 but 
said it would have been aware of his financial situation as he contacted Black Horse in 2018 
to pay a lump sum off his agreement. He says when he later realised he needed to sell the 
caravan for financial reasons Black Horse offered no help , advice or alternative resolution.  
He says he later realised he could have taken out a voluntary surrender 
Our investigator considered these further points but didnt change his view. He felt any issue 
over an agreement with site fees and lack of support from Black Horse when Mr B sold the 
caravan were not issues that had been originally raised as a complaint. So, if Mr B wanted to 
pursue these, he would have to put in a further complaint to Black Horse for its 
consideration.
In terms of the deposit he said Mr B had accepted the settlement offer for the caravan. He 
spoke to Black Horse and confirmed that the when the first agreement was settled a small 
credit of £271.37 was applied to the third agreement . As the first agreement was settled no 
deposit was transferred to the third agreement 
Mr B said he knew the £271. 37 had been transferred to the third agreement but as the 
second agreement was the return of the advance, he felt he should have had that money 
back for the time when he had no agreement. He said that Black Horse should have helped 
when his financial situation meant he had to sell the caravan
Our investigator said the Black Horse no longer had a copy of the settlement letter for the 
first agreement but had evidenced it had been sent. It had also confirmed that it would be 
down to the merchant to offer any surplus deposit back and not something that Black Horse 
would get involved in. Finally, he explained that as the funds were rolled into the next 
agreement the overall payments would have been lower, so Mr B had not suffered any 
financial loss as  result.
As Mr B was still unhappy, he asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr B feels strongly about his complaint and I do appreciate that . I also appreciate he is 
going to be disappointed at Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator.
Mr B has raised several new points during his complaint . These relate to an issue with site 
fees which if I have understood correctly, he feels were incorrectly charged once he part 
exchanged his caravan leaving him at a financial loss.I also understand for financial reasons Mr B had to sell his caravan and feels that Black 
Horse didnt provide him with any help to resolve this in the best way for him  financially.
I agree with our investigator that these are new issues. They werent referred to in the 
original complaint to us nor were they addressed in the final response letter from Black 
Horse. I appreciate its frustrating for Mr B to have to put in  a new complaint as our 
investigator has advised. But that is  the right course of action. We dont have the 
information to consider these issues. And Black Horse hasnt had the opportunity to 
investigate and respond to these.
In terms of Mr Bs original complaint. I understand there are three issues  firstly he wasnt  
given the option to reject his caravan, secondly, he feels there is an outstanding deposit 
amount owing to him and thirdly he feels he should be compensated for the distress and 
inconvenience. 
I will consider each of these in turn.
There is no dispute that the original caravan Mr B took out an agreement for had mould 
problems that werent resolved by repair. Mr B took out his agreement in August 2017 and 
part exchanged the caravan in October 2017.So clearly these issues arose very early into 
his agreement.
When issues arise within the first six months, we usually say its down to the business to 
resolve. There is also a  right to reject within the first thirty days of an agreement if there is a 
proven problem, with no onus on the consumer to accept a repair. 
I am not entirely clear if the issues arose within first thirty days or not. However, after thirty 
days, or if by agreement within the thirty days, we would usually consider a repair a 
reasonable resolution in the first instance. Clearly in this case the repair didnt resolve the 
problem so I would have expected rejection and replacement to be offered as solutions.
I can appreciate if a consumer had  problems with something such as mould as soon as  Mr  
B had that rejection may well be sought. I have no evidence Mr B wanted to reject equally I 
have no evidence that he wasnt offered the option to do so. 
I have however seen an email provided by Black Horse dated 30 October 2017 to Mr B 
confirming the part exchange agreement , monthly repayments and that a new credit check 
would be needed as this was a new agreement . Mr B was asked to confirm his 
understanding of the agreement . Mr B responded on the same day to confirm this and to 
offered  thanks for a satisfactory solution.
I have also seen an email from Mr  B confirming the maximum monthly repayment he could 
commit to.  And a note from the dealership confirming  details of the sale with no mention of 
rejection.
Having considered all the information available to me  I have no information to either show 
Mr B wanted to reject the caravan, that he was unhappy with the part exchange agreement 
or that he was pressured in any way to accept a part exchange rather than rejection. So, on 
that basis I cant conclude that Black Horse has done anything wrong. So it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to expect Black Horse to pay the difference between Mr Bs first and final 
agreements as Mr B has requested.
In terms of the deposit refund, when our investigator issued his second view ,which included 
a breakdown provided by Black Horse of the figures, Mr B accepted there was no deposit to 
refund. But still queried if this was correct.  I appreciate with three agreements  the original one settled in favour of part exchange, the second one drawn up but superseded by a third 
final agreement that this does cause some confusion. Its also frustrating that neither  Black 
Horse nor Mr B have been able to provide the settlement letter for the first agreement  
although Black Horse has evidenced that this was sent. Had we seen the settlement letter 
that  may have given more clarity.
However, from the breakdown of figures that Black Horse has given us for the three 
agreements I  agree with its view that no deposit refund is due.  Mr B paid a deposit of 
£1,500 for his first agreement  some of which must have been used to settle that 
agreement . The balance of £271.37 was transferred to his second agreement and I believe 
Mr B accepts that. That meant a total deposit of £7,271.37 comprising the balance 
transferred over , an additional £4,000 Mr B paid and a dealer contribution of £3,000. The 
increased deposit on the third agreement was due to a further dealer contribution.
I cant say whether the £271.37 excess from the first agreement should have been paid 
direct to Mr B or not. I havent seen any evidence to suggest it should or shouldnt. But I 
dont believe Mr B has been disadvantaged that it wasnt. In transferring the amount over this 
led to  a reduction in the  overall amount owing . And as the agreements were sorted out in a 
relatively quick  short timescale even if the  £271.37 had been refunded  then paid it back 
into the agreement, I dont feel there would have been any significant financial benefit to Mr 
B. And Mr B did sign the agreements for the caravans so, as I have no evidence to show he 
was pressured to do so, I must assume he was happy with the finance figures. I dont feel I 
can ask Black Horse to refund any deposit monies as I accepts its view that there are none 
to refund.
In terms of compensation I am surprised that Mr  B has told us that Black Horse didnt 
formally offer him any compensation. In its final response letter, it offered Mr B £200 for the 
inconvenience of the damp problem with the first caravan and for the resultant loss of 
enjoyment. I do feel some compensation is appropriate  we wouldnt expect a consumer to 
have a significant issue with a caravan so soon after getting it . I think the £200 Black Horse 
offered was fair and I am pleased to say that having checked  with Black Horse it is still 
happy to pay this amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Black Horse Limited should pay Mr B £200 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman