DRN-1569308
 
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about his pursuit to draw from his personal pension with The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited (the Pru). He is unhappy that the Pru has required him to 
obtain independent financial advice in order to do so. He says he does not need such advice 
and that the Pru has no contractual or regulatory basis to set this condition.
What happened
Mr Ls position is that he has a professional financial background that means he is capable 
of making his own informed decision about drawing from the pension, without the need for 
financial advice. He also says that it will be cost inefficient for him, given the relatively small 
value of the pension (around £25,000), to have to pay for such advice. He offered to sign a 
waiver in the matter, if the Pru wished him to. 
The Prus position is that the requirement is a part of its operational practice/policy, based on 
the notion that a pension drawdown is a matter that should be approached with financial 
advice (advice on its benefits and risks) and given the potential impact of a drawdown upon 
the policyholders overall financial position. It does not consider that a drawdown plan should 
happen on a non-advised basis.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, agreed with the Pru and concluded that 
the complaint should not be upheld. 
He said he understood Mr Ls arguments but noted that the Prus position is not uncommon 
amongst pension providers. He said income drawdowns from pensions carry more risk than 
using a pension to purchase an annuity, given that the former potentially results in depleting 
the pension whereas the latter provides an income for the rest of the policyholders life. He 
was persuaded that the Pru was entitled to determine how it provides its service and that the 
rationale behind its requirement for financial advice in Mr Ls case  and as it does not 
provide such advice  was reasonable. 
Mr L disagreed with this outcome. He repeated his position and considered that, in the 
absence of regulation or contractual provisions supporting the Prus stance, he is being 
subjected to an unfair form of blackmail (to his potential financial detriment) over his own 
pension policy. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold the complaint. I find no fault in Mr Ls pursuit. The pension is his and he is 
entitled to use it as he wishes. He is also entitled to use it without financial advice if, as he 
says, he does not consider that he needs such advice. I can also understand the cost 
inefficiency he has described in the matter. However, his is a qualified entitlement. Qualified by the Prus entitlement, as his pension provider, to operate its service as it reasonably sees 
fit. 
I do not suggest that the Pru was/is free to do anything it wishes and I consider that Mr L 
makes a reasonable reference to regulations and contractual provisions. The Pru is indeed 
required to comply with regulations and contractual provisions; its service operations should 
not be unreasonable or unfair to its customers; and should not conflict with regulations and 
contractual provisions.
However, the Prus insistence upon Mr L obtaining financial advice before proceeding with 
his drawdown plan need not be prescribed in contract or regulations if, as it appears, it is a 
part of its service provision policy/practice. Contractual terms would not generally extend to 
addressing every aspect of a firms operations or service provision  it can retain a 
reasonable level of discretion in these respects. In Mr Ls case, I have not seen evidence 
that the Prus stipulation conflicts with relevant regulations or the terms of his policy. As the 
investigator explained, the stipulation is based on reasonable grounds. It is aimed at 
promoting the merits of financial advice in the context of the potential seriousness (and risks) 
of a pension drawdown decision. The regulator, in general, also promotes the merits of 
financial advice.
I accept that the Pru could have a policy that is flexible enough to allow policyholders to 
waive the need for advice - instead of its current policy - but I am not persuaded that the 
absence of such flexibility automatically makes its policy unreasonable. The rationale behind 
it remains well-intentioned  in the interests of policyholders  and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons I am not persuaded to uphold Mr Ls 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 July 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman