DRN-2794637
The complaint
Miss W says Ferratum UK Ltd lent to her irresponsibly. She says was reliant on many other 
forms of credit and finance to get by. She thinks that Ferratum shouldve seen this and not 
lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about one payday loan Ferratum provided to Miss W on 10 February 2018. 
Miss W borrowed £400. She was due to make two monthly repayments of £202.90, plus a 
final monthly payment of £166.23. Miss W repaid the loan on 27 April 2018. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the checks Ferratum did were 
proportionate and so it was reasonable to lend. 
Miss W maintained that she wasnt borrowing sustainably as she was using these loans to 
repay other lending. She provided her bank statements to evidence this. 
Our adjudicator considered the further information Miss W had provided but didnt change 
his opinion about the complaint. As no resolution has been reached the complaint has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure MissW 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive seen a record of the information Miss W provided when she completed her loan 
application. Miss W said she had a monthly income of £1,250 and she had regular monthly 
outgoings of £500. So, it would have been reasonable for Ferratum to think that the loan was 
affordable for her. 
The crux of Miss Ws objection to the lending is that she feels Ferratum should have made 
more in-depth checks. Had it done this, it wouldve seen she was in financial difficulty. But 
given the amounts borrowed against her income, and that that it was at the start of the 
lending relationship, I dont think its reasonable to say Ferratum should have looked into her 
finances in more detail. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Ferratum was made aware of any 
financial problems Miss W mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Ferratum to rely on 
the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Ferratum did for this loan were 
proportionate. And I think its decision to approve it was reasonable. Im not upholding Miss 
Ws complaint about it.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman