DRN-2708134
The complaint
 Mr Z says Gain Capital UK Limited (Gain) unfairly cancelled a profitable short NZD/USD
trade that was executed on 11 June 2015 and that it opened a long USD/JPY trade on the
same date at the wrong price, leading to a loss. His complaint to, and pursuit of
compensation from, Gain concluded without success in 2016. He complained again in 2019
 also without success  and then referred the matter to this service.
What happened
 I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) in this complaint on 2 March 2021. My provisional 
findings and conclusions were as follows:
I share the investigators finding that Mr Z should be paid £200 for the trouble and upset
caused by his experiences in the trades (especially the experience of seeing his profit in the
NZD/USD trade cancelled despite the opposite showing on the platform) and caused by
having to re-pursue his complaint in 2019 because Gain did not properly address the
complaint in 2016  Gain treated it as a query and did not give the correct complaint referral
notice at the time.
My considerations differ from the investigators in terms of my findings on the two trades. I
accept that the level of evidence this service would normally expect to be available in
complaints about trade executions is not available in the present complaint. Nevertheless, a
conclusion to Mr Zs complaint must be determined. The task before me is to give available
evidence the weight they reasonably deserve and to reach a conclusion on the balance of
probabilities.
The NZD/USD Trade
There is credible platform screenshot evidence showing that this short trade (opened
on 11 June 2015 at the price of 0.71926 with a trade size of 2.1 lots) was executed
and closed on the same date and at the price of 0.69868, generating a profit for Mr Z
of $4,321.80.
There is slightly conflicting evidence from Mr Zs account statement dated 19
February 2016, which shows that the trade was closed (at 15:03:57) at the different
price of 0.70081. However, I consider the screenshot evidence  which appears to be
from the time of the trade  more reliable than the account statement which appears
to be from eight months after the trade.
There is no evidence to support Gains claim that no execution happened in the trade
and/or that the platform presentation was erroneous and/or to explain, sufficiently,
how the alleged error affected the platform.
I do not discount the possibility of errors sometimes occurring on trading platforms.
However, I cannot reasonably rest on a possibility to dismiss the inherent weight in
the screenshot evidence. Evidence that the error alleged by Gain probably occurred
is required. I have considered its argument about the difficulty Mr Z faced in trying to
close the trade at the time. Gain says he faced that difficulty because of the error
and/or because the trade had never been executed. However, there is no supporting
evidence in this respect too and it is arguable that any type of technical problem  not
necessarily a pricing related problem  could have caused the difficulty.
Overall and on balance, I am faced with evidence of execution of this trade and a
lack of evidence to the contrary, so I consider that the trade was executed as
illustrated in the screenshot evidence and that Mr Z is entitled to the profit generated
by the trade.
The USD/JPY Trade
It is not disputed that this long trade was opened at 15:14:01 on 11 June 2015 and
closed around nine minutes later at 15:23:45 on the same date.
Mr Z essentially says the opening price for the trade  124.781  could not have
been accurate given that the platform price never reached this level at the time of
execution or during the minute of execution between 15:14:00 and 15:15:00. In
support, he has submitted another credible piece of platform screenshot evidence
showing candlestick price data for the trade and for the minute of execution.
The screenshot shows that the minute opened at the price of 123.618 and closed at
the price of 123.628; and that in between the highest price reached was 123.628 and
the lowest price reached was 123.613. I agree with the investigators view that tick
data would be notably helpful additional information but in its absence, I consider this
set of candlestick price data for the relevant minute to be enough.
The next consideration is what the two-way pricing for the trade would have been at
the time it was opened. The candlestick price data does not show this, but Mr Z has
shared evidence that Gains spread for the USD/JPY currency pair was around 0.9
points (or 90 pips). It is not clear if this evidence is from 2015 but, in the absence of
evidence of the precise spread at the time the trade was opened on 11 June 2015, I
consider this information a meaningful alternative. It is also broadly consistent with
information presently available on the platform related website which says Gains
minimum and typical spreads for the USD/JPY pair in 2019 were 0.6 points and 0.8
points respectively.
Using the above spread information, and based on the high price of 123.628, it
appears that the highest buy price that probably applied to Mr Zs trade during the
relevant minute was 123.628 plus 90 pips, which produces a price of 124.528. This
does not match the price of 124.781 that was applied to the trade.
On balance, I consider that the price of 124.781 was wrongly applied to open this
trade and that, in the absence of evidence of what the precise price was, available
evidence suggests it would probably have been no higher than 124.528.
Fair compensation
If the findings in this provisional decision are retained, my aim will be to return Mr Z to the
position he would have been in if his NZD/USD trade had not been cancelled and if his
USD/JPY trade had been opened at a price no higher than 124.528. In order to achieve this,
I will be ordering Gain to do as follows:
Pay Mr Z the amount of $4,321.80, as compensation for the profit from his NZD/USD
(which was in the same amount) that was cancelled.
Calculate how Mr Zs USD/JPY trade would have performed if it was opened at a
price no higher than 124.528  or, for practical purposes, at the price of 124.528 
and closed, as it was, at the price of 123.672 (which does not appear to be in
dispute); use this calculation to adjust the loss he incurred in the trade; pay him the
result of the adjustment (that is, a refund of the amount by which the loss is reduced).In addition, if my provisional findings are retained, I will be ordering Gain to pay Mr Z £200
for the trouble and upset caused to him, as described above.
If my provisional findings are retained, I will not be ordering the payment of interest, from 11
June 2015, to Mr Z because evidence shows that his funds were engaged in trading, so I do
not consider that he has been deprived savings related interest and there is no way of
knowing what would have happened to his trading profits (or the total compensation amount)
after 11 June 2015. However, I will be making provisions for interest to be paid from the date
of my final decision if Gain delays in paying him the compensation I will order.
Both parties were invited to comment on the PD. Mr Z accepted it. Gain did not, and said as 
follows:
It maintained its position that the NZD/USD trade was never triggered/executed and 
that what Mr Z saw on the platform  illustrating the trade  was a visual error. In 
support of this argument, it attached an excel document containing trading data for 
Mr Zs account for 11 June 2015 and said no NZD/USD trade exists within the data. It 
also attached day-end contract notes for his account and for the same date, and said 
no NZD/USD trade exists within them.
It questioned the legitimacy of the trading statements Mr Z has relied upon and said 
they do not have  City Index branding or coded stamp.
With regards to the USD/JPY trade, Gain referred the same day-end contract notes 
as evidence of the details of its execution.
Gains comments were shared with Mr Z and, in response, he considered that Gain had said 
nothing meaningful with regards to the USD/JPY trade, so a further reply from him wasnt 
warranted; that, with regards to the NZD/USD trade, Gain still has not explained the visual 
error it alleges, despite opposing evidence in the form of the trade appearing in the trading 
statement evidence he has submitted (showing a specific ticket number for the trade); and 
that said evidence is legitimate, it was produced from the platform (with his account details 
and trade details within) and Gain has shown no evidence to the contrary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so  especially including consideration of Gains response to the PD and the 
documents attached to its response  I have not been persuaded to depart from my 
provisional findings and conclusions. I incorporate those findings and conclusions into the 
present decision. 
I agree with Mr Zs observation about Gains response on the USD/JPY trade. I do not 
consider that it conveys anything new. The details of how this trade was executed are 
already known and they were reflected in the PD (as quoted above). The issue is that Mr Z 
challenges the opening price applied to the trade and the PD found, upon analysis, that he 
appears to have a legitimate challenge. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I am 
satisfied that Mr Z has a legitimate challenge against the opening price applied to the 
USD/JPY trade and I draw this conclusion on the basis of the analysis set out in the PD.
With regards to the NZD/USD trade, I am aware of Gains position on the matter and I note that it retains that position. I am not persuaded by its assertion, or suggestion, that previous 
evidence about this trade cannot be relied upon. The PD referred to a platform screenshot of 
the trade and to Mr Zs account statement of 19 February 2016  both of which showed the 
trade. I preferred the pricing showed for the trade in the former over the slightly different 
pricing showed in the latter because I considered the platform evidence to be more 
contemporaneous, but the fact remains that both show that the trade existed  contrary to 
Gains claim that it did not.
The account statement of 19 February 2016 bears no notable indication of illegitimacy. As 
Mr Z says, it shows his details (that is, name, account number, account currency setting, 
account leverage setting) and then it shows around 14 pages of account transactions. It is 
also headed with Gains full name/logo and I accept Mr Zs evidence that the statement is 
presented as it was generated from the platform. Furthermore, the platform screenshot 
evidence also bears no notable indication of illegitimacy. It is not clear how or why, in 
contrast, the excel document Gain has now presented does not show the NZD/USD trade 
and the same applies to the day-end contract notes. However, on balance, I am not 
persuaded to dismiss the platform screenshot and account statement evidence that shows 
existence of the NZD/USD trade; I consider them credible grounds to conclude that the trade 
was executed at the relevant time; and, as I said in the PD, There is no evidence to support 
Gains claim  that the platform presentation was erroneous and/or to explain, sufficiently, 
how the alleged error affected the platform.
In conclusion, I uphold Mr Zs complaint.
Putting things right
 Fair compensation
My aim is to return Mr Z to the position he would have been in if his NZD/USD trade had not 
been cancelled and if his USD/JPY trade had been opened at a price no higher than 
124.528. In order to achieve this, I order Gain to do as follows:
Pay Mr Z the amount of $4,321.80, as compensation for the profit from his NZD/USD 
(which was in the same amount) that was cancelled.
Calculate how Mr Zs USD/JPY trade would have performed if it was opened at the 
price of 124.528  and closed, as it was, at the price of 123.672 (which does not 
appear to be in dispute); use this calculation to adjust the loss he incurred in the 
trade; pay him the result of the adjustment (that is, a refund of the amount by which 
the loss is reduced).
Pay Mr Z interest on the total compensation amount at the rate of 8% simple per year 
from the date of this decision if Gain does not pay him the compensation within 28 
days of being notified of his acceptance of this decision.
In addition, I order Gain to pay Mr Z £200 for the trouble and upset caused to him, as 
described in the quote from the PD above. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Zs complaint and I order Gain Capital UK Limited 
to compensate him as set out above and to provide him with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman