DRN-4381571
The complaint
Miss P has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund transactions she says she 
didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
Miss Ps debit card and PIN were used for a cash withdrawal and several point of sale 
purchases, totalling around £1,300.
Several days later, Miss P reported the payments. She said shed lost her card at some 
point, and she had the PIN written down with it. She later said her PIN was actually written 
inside her mobile phone case.
Barclays held Miss P liable for the payments in dispute. She came to our service.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss P 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, Barclays can hold Miss P liable for the payments in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that she authorised them, or if she failed to keep her account safe either 
intentionally or through acting with gross negligence.
Im satisfied from Barclays technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Miss Ps 
genuine card, and the correct PIN. So I can see that these transactions were properly 
authenticated. The question, then, is whether the evidence suggests that its most likely 
Miss P consented to the transactions, or not.
Ive thought carefully about how someone might have learned Miss Ps PIN. She said she 
hadnt told anyone her PIN, and no one she knew could or would have done this. Her PIN 
had last been issued by the bank about four years prior, and its not likely or plausible that 
someone could have simply guessed it on the first try. And Miss P hadnt used her PIN for 
over a month before the disputed payments, so there was no recent opportunity for someone 
to watch her enter it and then steal the card.
So the only likely or plausible way that someone couldve learned Miss Ps PIN and made 
the transactions without her consent is if they used her written record of the PIN. But if thats 
the case, that would mean Miss P failed to keep her account safe in line with the terms and 
conditions. It may be that she did this knowingly, or by not taking enough care. But it is 
widely understood that keeping such a note of the PIN in this way is very risky, since anyone 
who has the card is then able to use it without further checks.
The only other likely and plausible possibility is that the payments were made by either 
Miss P or someone shed given her permission to. This possibility is also supported by the 
way the card was used. The person who made the payments did not check the balance and 
appeared to know how much was available before attempting large payments. They also 
didnt try to use the card afterwards despite a very significant balance remaining, appearing 
to know when Miss P had reported it lost. The transactions all happened in Miss Ps local 
area. And Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Miss P 
couldve authorised these payments or given someone else permission to make them. So 
Im afraid this does seem to be the most likely possibility.
I do appreciate why Miss Ps representative would like to see CCTV footage. Such footage is 
only kept for about a month as standard. But even if it were still available after all this time, it 
wouldve only shown what the person making the transactions looked like. It would not have 
shown whether they had Miss Ps permission or not, nor how they learned the PIN. And as 
I explained above, based on the evidence its not likely that the payments were made without 
Miss Ps consent or without her failing to keep her account safe.
In summary, Im satisfied that Miss Ps genuine card and PIN were used. Based on the 
evidence, the only likely or plausible way these payments were made is if either they were 
made with Miss Ps consent, or if they were made because Miss P failed to keep her account 
safe intentionally or through gross negligence. And that means Barclays can decline a 
refund in this case. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult 
message for Miss P to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of 
probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman