DRN-2239869
Complaint 
Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr R bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) alongside a mortgage in 2005. TMPP 
can be split into sections, namely Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), Life 
Cover and Critical Illness Cover (CIC).
Mr R has only complained about the PPI cover, so Ive only looked at the sale of the PPI 
element of the package is this decision.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me  an ombudsman  for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why. 
As the PPI was sold so long ago, neither BOS nor Mr R have much paperwork from the time 
of sale. I dont think thats unreasonable, but it does mean I have limited information about 
the sale. So, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the evidence I do have, 
which includes both BOSs and Mr Rs testimony. 
Mr R says he was a first-time buyer and thought the PPI was compulsory  he trusted the 
branch advisor and only took it because he thought he had to. BOS says as this policy was 
sold in branch, its advisor wouldve made the optional nature of the PPI clear, and sought his 
consent before adding it to his account 
Ive seen a screenshot of BOSs records which show that it asked Mr R a series of questions 
checking whether he was eligible for the PPI and also recorded his answers. This to me 
suggests it was discussed to some degree. Ive also seen a copy of a thank you letter Mr R 
was sent, thanking him for taking the TMPP. Had he not agreed to take it, I wouldve 
expected him to have questioned why it had been set up on receipt of this  so I think its 
likely he agreed to take it. 
Weve seen a number of cases from around the time that Mr R took the PPI and have 
developed a good understanding of BOSs sales processes. It normally made the optional 
nature of the PPI clear and asked its customers to agree to it before adding it to their 
accounts as part of its usual process. 
 
So overall, while Ive thought carefully about Mr Rs testimony and understand his strength of 
feeling regarding this, I think its more likely that BOS made Mr R aware that he had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and he chose to take it. 
BOS recommended the PPI so it had to check that it was right for Mr R. Based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. Mr R was eligible for the PPI and it 
doesnt look like he wouldve been affected by any of the main things it didnt cover. For 
example, he says he was employed and didnt suffer from any medical conditions at the time 
of sale. So, he wouldnt be affected by anything in the terms about unusual work 
arrangements or known health issues. 
Mr R says he had good sick pay provided by his employer and as he was employed, I think 
its likely he wouldve had other employee benefits too, like redundancy pay. He also says 
his family would have stepped in to help him meet his repayments if he had found himself 
unexpectedly out of work.  
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of Mr Rs employee benefits  for up to 12 months if 
he was off work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. The PPI would have been 
especially helpful after his full sick pay ran out. And although Im sure his family would want 
to help him, their ability to help wouldve depended on their own circumstances at the time 
which could change  so I dont think that help could be guaranteed. 
A mortgage is a long term and significant commitment secured on Mr Rs home  and the 
effects of not keeping up with the repayments couldve been very serious. I also havent 
seen anything to suggest the cover was unaffordable for him at the time he took it. So, I think 
the PPI was suitable for him at the time. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. As Ive 
said above, he wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions and it seems like it would have 
been useful for him if something went wrong. Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Ive also thought about whether BOS needs to give Mr R some of the commission he paid 
back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreements  including a regulated mortgage. As Mr Rs mortgage was a 
regulated mortgage they dont apply. So BOS doesnt need to refund any of the commission 
Mr R paid for the PPI he had with that mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman