DRN-2887363
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unreasonably declined
to meet a claim under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr B took out a home emergency policy in November 2019 with RSA. At the end of
September 2020, Mr B noticed his toilet was leaking and called RSAs agent. He read his
policy document and thought that toilets were covered for up to £2,000 per claim.
RSA sent a plumber to investigate the leak in October 2020. The plumber couldnt detect a
leak and tightened the bolts. Mr B reported that there was still a leak and the plumber
attended again and identified that the toilet bowl was cracked and needed replacing.
Mr B spoke to RSA and was told that toilet replacements werent covered under his policy.
Mr B says that each time he called RSA, different agents quoted different policy exclusions
to explain why his repair wasnt covered. He complained to RSA.
In its final response letter, RSA explained that under the terms of Mr Bs policy, RSA dont
replace toilets. It quoted a further section of the policy to state that the repair was excluded.
RSA acknowledged that Mr B received a poor service however and, in recognition of this,
RSA paid him £60 in compensation.
Mr B was not satisfied and therefore referred his complaint to this service. He disagreed with
the reasons given for declining his claim and felt that the policy terms quoted werent
relevant to his situation. Mr B said he had the toilet repaired independently and this has cost
him £295.
The services investigator upheld the complaint. He considered the evidence and came to
the following view. He didnt think that RSA declined the claim fairly as the wording of the
policy was open to interpretation. He said to put things right, RSA should assess Mr Bs
claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions and if the claim would succeed,
RSA should pay Mr B the cost of repairs (minus the excess amount) plus 8% interest. To
confirm the cost of repairs, he said that Mr B should provide an invoice or receipt when
requested. The investigator felt that RSAs payment of £60 was appropriate however for its
service failures.
RSA was not content with this outcome and the matter was therefore referred to me to
make a decision in my role as Ombudsman.
In June 2021, I issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I intended 
to uphold Mr Bs complaint as follows;-
The key issue for me to determine is whether RSA treated Mr B fairly and reasonably in
declining his claim and in the handling of the matter. I dont consider that it fairly and
reasonably declined Mr Bs claim, however I consider that it has adequately addressed Mr
Bs service concerns. I uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
As a service, we consider whether an insurer has acted in line with its policy terms and
conditions and whether its acted fairly and reasonably in coming to its decisions under those
terms and conditions.
The starting point is to consider the policy terms and conditions and to consider whether the
insurer acted fairly and reasonably in interpreting and applying these in its decision-making.
The relevant provisions which have featured in this complaint are as follows; -
What is covered
We will pay for the cost of repair in order to restore operation to  toilet systems, located
within your home, including;

 repair of leaking or running toilets including the repair or replacement of toilet ball cocks,
valves and syphons.
The most we will pay for any claim is £2,000.
What is not covered
9.1. Payment of any excess stated in your policy schedule.

9.4. Extractor fans or macerator units for toilets e.g. Saniflo.
9.5. Any damage to cisterns, sinks, baths, showers, whirlpool baths or spa baths and any
associated pipes, valves or pumps.
9.6. Any taps and toilet systems external to your home.
9.7. Loss or damage caused by or resulting from leaking appliances (e.g. such as toilet pan
and or toilet flushing systems).

9.10. The need for replacement or repair caused by anyone other than the tradesperson
authorised by us.
In its final response letter, RSA quoted section 9 and 9.10, whilst in its initial conversations
with Mr B, RSA said the claim would also fail as a result of the exclusions highlighted in
section 9.5 and section 9.7.
Ive looked at all of the terms and conditions mentioned in this complaint.
Firstly, as to whats covered by the policy, RSA says the term; repair of leaking or running
toilets including the repair or replacement of toilet ball cocks, valves and syphons, gives an
impression according to RSA that these are the only parts of the toilet that may be repaired
under the policy. RSA thinks that this excludes the repair of Mr Bs toilet bowl. Im satisfied
however that to give this sentence its clear and ordinary meaning, the word including
means that leaks from other parts of the toilet, such as the toilet bowl are also reasonably
covered by the policy.
In relation to what is not covered by the policy; in section 9.5, Any damage to cisterns, sinks,
baths, showers, whirlpool baths or spa baths and any associated pipes, valves or pumps,
this section was originally mentioned by an RSA agent in a call with Mr B. Im clear that a
toilet bowl doesnt equate to a toilet cistern and is not excluded by the policy.
As to what is not covered in section 9.7, Loss or damage caused by or resulting from
leaking appliances (e.g. such as toilet pan and or toilet flushing systems), I dont consider
that this applies to Mr Bs circumstances. Mr B hasnt claimed for such damage and he has
claimed for damage caused to and not caused by a leaking toilet pan.
As to what is not covered in section 9.10, The need for replacement or repair caused byanyone other than the tradesperson authorised by us. RSA have said this term shows that
Mr Bs toilet bowl replacement is not covered. I dont agree that this is correct however. It
seems that wording to the effect of due to damage is missing after the words replacement
or repair, nevertheless what is clear is that the provision only excludes damage caused by
anyone and Ive seen no evidence that either Mr B or anyone else caused the damage.
In all the circumstances, unless I receive evidence which persuades me otherwise, Im
provisionally persuaded that the terms and conditions of Mr Bs home insurance policy are
clear. Im also of the provisional view that damage to Mr Bs toilet is covered by those terms
and conditions. I therefore conclude that it would be unfair and unreasonable for RSA to
interpret and apply the policy other than in accordance with its clear meaning as set out
above.
Finally, with regard to Mr Bs service complaint, Im satisfied that Mr B made multiple phone
calls to RSA in an attempt to resolve his claim. Im also satisfied that each time he called, he
was provided with different policy exclusions with no clear answer as to why it was
considered that such exclusions applied to his circumstances.
In its final response, RSA acknowledged that Mr B could have received better customer
service. RSA have also accepted that the plumber missed an appointment in October 2020.
As RSA offered £60 as an apology and Mr B has since donated this to charity, I conclude
that this was a fair and reasonable acknowledgement of the errors caused by RSA. I dont
require RSA to do anything else in this respect.
In my provisional decision, I asked both RSA and Mr B if they had any further comments or 
evidence they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has accepted my provisional decision and RSA have asked this service to forward a 
copy of the invoice in relation to the repair which was arranged by Mr B and Im satisfied that 
RSA have also therefore accepted the provisional decision. 
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in the provisional decision, I uphold Mr Bs complaint 
against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc;
I therefore require RSA;
- to pay Mr B the cost of repairs (following provision by Mr B of a receipt or invoice) minus
the excess amount, within 28 days of his acceptance of any Final Decision.
- to pay interest on the cost of repairs calculated from the date Mr B paid this amount to his
plumber to the date of settlement, at 8% a year simple interest*Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman