DRN-3349958
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard didnt do enough to 
prevent him losing money to a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. 
In April 2018 Mr G made a series of payments on his Barclays Visa credit card. He says he 
was paying a merchant Ill refer to as U. He believed he was crediting his account to trade 
the financial markets. The payments totalled around £3,500 (including transaction fees). 
Mr G says he later found out that U were operating a scam and in February 2020 Mr G 
contacted Barclays and asked that they try to help him get his money back. Ultimately 
Barclays declined to make a refund. They said that they were beyond the time limits for a 
chargeback and that Mr G didnt have a valid claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. 
Mr G complained and when Barclays maintained their position the complaint was referred to 
our service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. 
In summary she thought Barclays had acted fairly. As he still disagrees, Mr G has asked for 
an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says that the payments he made were unusual and that Barclays ought to have 
intervened at the time to warn him about scams. The largest individual payment was for 
around £775 and all the payments were well within the available credit on Mr Gs account. 
Its also not unusual for a credit card to be used for occasional larger payments. And in that 
context, whilst this was an increase in the usual spending on the card, I dont think the 
pattern of spending in this particular case was so unusual and out of character that Id have 
expected Barclays to have intervened. In his submissions to our service Mr G has mentioned 
the British Standard Institute (BSI) PAS 17271 (2017)  Protecting Customers from Financial 
Harm from Fraud Code. Ive taken this into consideration. But I maintain that I dont think the 
spending was so unusual as to warrant Barclays interfering with Mr Gs free use of his 
available credit. As such, I dont think Barclays reasonably should have done more when the 
payments were made. 
Barclays can only process a chargeback claim under the scheme operators (VISA) rules. 
The chargeback rules are clear that the absolute maximum time allowed from the date of 
transaction for a claim to be raised is 540 days. The last payment was on 18 April 2018 and 
Mr G hasnt evidenced that he contacted Barclays about this prior to his letter dated 6 
February 2020 (over 650 days later). As the time limit had already passed (for all the 
transactions) by the time Barclays were informed, I dont think their decision not to attempt a 
chargeback claim was unreasonable. They can only act within the schemes rules and the 
time limits are clear. 
Ive also considered whether Barclays ought to have raised a claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act. For this to have been a valid option there must have been an 
unbroken chain between the debtor (Mr G), creditor (Barclays) and the supplier (In this case 
the merchant U). And any claim being made would have to have related to a breach of 
contract and or a misrepresentation between Mr G and U in relation to a contract that was 
funded by the Barclays credit card. 
But in this case, there is nothing to link the payment to U. Mr Gs statements show the 
payments as going to a different business. And there is nothing to link that other business to 
U. I dont think there is sufficient evidence to support that the debtor creditor supplier chain 
was unbroken. As such, I cant fairly criticise Barclays for not raising a claim under Section 
75. 
Im sorry to hear Mr G lost his money, but there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can tell 
Barclays to reimburse him. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman