DRN-3402974
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained about the information they were given when they bought a 
BUPA insurance Limited policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K had a BUPA private medical insurance policy for a number of years. In 2019, 
Mr K spoke to BUPA to discuss a possible premium reduction. 
BUPA explained there were alternative options which could reduce premiums but Mr and 
Mrs K would be subject to underwriting and pre-existing medical conditions (PEMCs) were 
unlikely to be covered. The adviser provided Mr K with information and talked through his 
options.
Mr K took a policy with medical underwriting. He later said he wasnt told by the adviser that 
medical information would be needed to remove any exclusions. And complained that his 
policy had been mis-sold.
Unhappy with BUPAs response to his complaint, Mr K referred his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think BUPA had mis-sold the policy as it 
had provided clear information.
 
Mr K disagreed and said he wasnt told of the consequences of changing his policy. He said 
he was told no claims could be made for PEMCs for two years but BUPA didnt explain there 
would be conditions attached after this period, such as getting various medical reports to 
have the exclusions removed. Had he been advised properly, he wouldnt have taken a new 
policy. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by the investigator. 
When Mr K spoke to BUPA in 2019 to discuss reducing his premiums, the adviser confirmed 
she would run through Mr Ks options but wouldnt be providing any advice. 
The relevant industry rules and guidance say an insurer should ensure a customer is 
provided with clear, fair and not misleading information so they can make an informed 
choice. This applies to policies sold on a non-advised basis.
The adviser discussed full medical underwriting and moratorium underwriting options. She 
asked medical questions relating to both Mr and Mrs K. Mr K had no relevant medical history 
to declare but his wife had undergone surgery and took regular medication. The adviser 
explained Mrs Ks conditions would be excluded but exclusions could be reviewed at 
renewal.
Mr K confirmed he understood and was happy to go ahead with the policy. 
Ive listened to the sales call in full and dont agree that the policy was mis-sold. I think the 
adviser gave information which was clear, fair and not misleading. She didnt suggest that 
the exclusions would be removed. She said the exclusions could be reviewed. I think its 
reasonable to expect that a review process would take place. Without requesting medical 
reports or medical evidence, I cant see how BUPA would review the exclusions for the 
conditions which had been declared. So based on this, I dont agree that the policy was mis-
sold.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing, but I think the adviser was clear and provided 
enough information to allow Mr K to make an informed choice. He wanted to reduce his 
premiums and the adviser explained his options fairly and in a non-misleading way. So I 
wont be asking BUPA to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman