DRN-4277895
The complaint
Mr B complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) incorrectly led him to believe hed receive 
a higher income at retirement from his personal pension policy than hes entitled to.
What happened
In 2007, 50% of the value of Mr Bs policy was paid to his ex-wife due to a spousal claim. But 
ReAssure (Legal & General at the time) failed to reflect this in Mr Bs statements from 2007 
to 2020. As a result, these incorrectly showed that his pension might provide an annual 
income around £9,500 when it would actually be closer to £5,000. 
In January and October 2022, ReAssure sent Mr B retirement options packs offering him a 
guaranteed annual pension of around £5,000 if he took up its retirement offer at his 70th 
birthday. And, in November 2022, Mr B got in touch with ReAssure to discuss his options 
and went on to complain that hed found out he would only receive half the amount it had 
said he might expect. Mr B said hed been misled and that this had caused him frustration.
In February 2023, ReAssure sent Mr B its final response letter. It recognised it made an error 
with Mr Bs previous statements, it apologised and offered him £500 in compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to him. But it said it cant honour the drop in value as the respective 
funds had already been paid out. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr B brought his complaint to our Service. Mr B added, in 
summary, that hed been planning to receive a higher pension than hes going to get as a 
result of ReAssures error. And that hed like it to honour that amount. 
After ReAssure confirmed in writing that it consents to us considering Mr Bs complaint if it 
has been brought outside our timescales, one of our Investigators looked into it. She said 
that, while Mr Bs statements incorrectly gave the impression hed have a higher pension, 
she couldnt fairly ask ReAssure to honour this as it could leave him better off. She also said 
she wasnt persuaded Mr B would be in a different position if it hadnt been for the error. And 
that Mr B would have been aware in 2007 that half the value had been paid to his ex-wife 
and that the value on his statements from 2020 onwards was lower than it had previously 
been. But he didnt choose to do anything about this to minimise the impact on him.  
 
Mr B didnt agree. He added, in summary, that ReAssure raised his expectations over years 
that hed receive a larger pension, which may have caused him to decide not to pay anything 
more into it. Mr B said that over his anticipated lifespan hell receive around £126,000 less 
from his pension than ReAssure led to him to believe he would. And that its highly likely he 
would have made different arrangements if hed known this sooner. Mr B said that with 
hindsight he ought to have checked his statements, but we lead busy lives and dont always 
do whats reasonable. And that all hed do is vaguely glance at these and think nothing much 
had changed. 
So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking ReAssure to do anything further, for largely the same 
reasons as the Investigator. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that ReAssure made an error by sending Mr B statements for a number of 
years that didnt reflect his reduced pension value following a spousal claim on this. In which 
case, whats left for me to decide is whether ReAssure has done enough to put this right. 
While ReAssure made an error, this doesnt necessarily mean it should honour the higher 
pension value and income Mr B would have received from this. And I cant fairly tell it to do 
that as it could put Mr B in a better position, given the higher value doesnt take into account 
what was correctly paid from his pension in 2007. Instead, Ive considered if Mr B would be 
in a different position now if not for ReAssures error. And, while Ive considered Mr Bs 
comments, I cant safely say he would be for the following reasons. 
I think its likely Mr B would have had to provide details of his pension as part of his divorce, 
including the value. So its reasonable to think he was aware of the existing value and that 
he appreciated the remaining value would be much lower after this, given 50% would be 
paid to his ex-wife. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr B chose to make additional 
pension contributions following this though to mitigate the impact, despite knowing his 
remaining retirement provision would be significantly lower, regardless of ReAssures 
statements going on to show otherwise. And given Mr B didnt question why his pension 
value hadnt significantly reduced in his statements in the years immediately following his 
divorce, this leads me to think its likely he wasnt looking at these. In which case, it follows 
that I dont think the error in Mr Bs statements made a difference to the position hes in.  
Even if Mr B did glance at his statements in the way hes said, its reasonable to think hed 
have seen the lower values on these from 2020 onwards. I say this because Mr Bs 
statements dated April and November 2021, as well as May 2022, clearly set out the value 
and annual income he might receive at retirement on the first page, under a heading in bold 
that said Your pension pot at a glance. And I think Mr B would have reasonably appreciated 
from these that this was a significant reduction on what ReAssure had previously said he 
might achieve, given it was nearly 50% less. Mr B again didnt choose to make additional 
contributions to his pension though, which also suggests he wouldnt have done anything 
differently if ReAssure hadnt made the error in his statements. 
Turning to compensation, ReAssure made an error thats caused Mr B frustration and 
disappointment. But it recognised this, apologised and paid Mr B £500 in compensation to 
make up for this. And, having taken everything into account, I think this is a fair and 
reasonable amount in the circumstances. I think this reflects the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr B at finding out ReAssure made an error. So Im not asking it to do any more 
than this. 
In summary, for the reasons Ive given, I havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr B 
would likely be in a different position if ReAssure had sent him correct valuations between 
2007 and 2020. And Im not asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision that Im not asking ReAssure Limited to do 
anything more.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman