DRN-3583927
The complaint
Ms Ss complaint arises from a mortgage with Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Birmingham 
Midshires and referred to here as BM). Ms S says that BM:
released her personal data to a third party without her consent;
unreasonably refused her request for a term extension on her mortgage;
refused to allow her to have legal representation;
harassed her and treated her with disrespect.
Ms S would like BM to pay her appropriate compensation for its actions.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 31 May 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, what happened really isnt in 
dispute, so I dont need to analyse the events in order to determine why a complaint has 
been made. Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any 
information that might lead to Ms S being identified.
In January 2008 Ms S took out an interest-only mortgage with BM. They borrowed £40,000 
over a term of seven years. It was in the joint names of Ms S and her partner, Mr A. The 
equitable interest in the property was held as tenants in common, with Ms S holding a 99% 
share of the equity and Mr A the remaining 1%.
I am very sorry to note that Mr A passed away in November 2013. As the property wasnt 
held as joint tenants, his 1% equitable share passed into his estate. Mr A hadnt left a UK 
will, and, without going into detail, this resulted in several years of upset and legal wrangling 
for Ms S with the administrator of Mr As estate and their agent. None of this was Ms Ss 
fault, and I fully accept that it caused her considerable distress, as well as legal fees. 
In October 2014 BM granted consent to lease the property for 12 months. BMs 
understanding when the mortgage had been taken out was that the property would be sold 
at the end of the mortgage term. Online data shows the property was listed for sale in 
November 2014. The mortgage term expired in December 2014 and Ms S has continued to 
pay the interest. 
It wasnt until July 2018 that Ms S told BM that her legal action had been successful and the 
property could now be transferred into her sole name. (I understand that this wasnt 
completed at the Land Registry until 2020.) In July 2018 Ms S made a Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR) and requested a term extension. Regrettably, BM didnt respond to either 
request.
Ms A says that in 2019 she was told by BM that she could have a term extension. However, 
BMs position is that, although it has given consideration to this, there doesnt appear to be 
any other suitable repayment vehicle for the mortgage. In the absence of a repayment 
vehicle, for any term extension request, BM would have to ascertain whether it would be 
affordable for the mortgage to be switched onto a capital repayment basis. BM also says that 
its policy is to ask customers to seek independent financial advice to ascertain what options 
might be available to them.
However, BM says that, in view of the legal difficulties arising from Mr As estate, the term 
was informally extended on a year-by-year basis, with the last 12-month hold on the account 
put in place in 2019. But since 2020, when the property was finally put into Ms Ss sole 
name, BM has expected the mortgage to be repaid. BM has said that it cant wait indefinitely 
for the property to be sold, and as a last resort, its option is to take legal action. 
Ms S complained to BM. She said BM had:
released her personal data to a third party (the agent) without her consent;
denied her the right to use a solicitor to act as her intermediary;
failed to treat her with respect and dignity and accused her of lying;
sent her threatening letters during lockdown;
refused to allow her to pay a lump sum equivalent to two years monthly repayments in 
order to give her time to find a suitable property to live in;
refused to honour its word to grant her a term extension.
Ms S says that she is determined to get all those who thought they could breach my rights 
to answer for their actions.
BM acknowledged in August 2019 that it hadnt responded to Ms Ss letter sent in 2018 
asking for a DSAR and a term extension. Compensation of £250 was paid for this, and a 
DSAR was requested. BM also investigated whether any information had been released to a 
third party. In June 2021 BM looked at the matter again. BM said it had not released Ms Ss 
personal data to a third party, and offered £100 compensation for delay in replying. BM also 
apologised if Ms S felt she had received poor service, but hadnt been able to locate any 
calls to investigate this further, although BM asked Ms S for any further details. BM also 
explained how to arrange for her solicitor to discuss her account with BM on her behalf.
Ms S remained dissatisfied with BMs handling of the matter and complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had happened and reached the 
following conclusions:
BM had provided information about the mortgage that Mr As estate was entitled to, but 
there was no evidence of a breach of Ms Ss personal data.
BM hadnt responded to Ms Ss initial request for a DSAR and a term extension, and it 
had also acknowledged delay in responding to Ms S. The investigator thought the total 
compensation paid of £350 was fair and reasonable for this.
The investigator was satisfied BM had been polite and professional in its dealings with 
Ms S.
BM had acted fairly in granting informal term extensions while the legal issues in relation 
to Mr As estate were still unresolved. However, once the mortgage and property title 
were finally in Ms Ss sole name, BM wasnt under any obligation to continue to offer any 
further extension.
BM was prepared to grant further informal extensions, but this was conditional on it being 
kept up-to-date on the progress of the sale. The investigator thought this was 
reasonable.Ms S didnt agree with the investigators findings and reiterated her concerns about all the 
issues shes unhappy about.
In a jurisdiction decision dated 1 July 2022 I explained that I would not be considering Ms Ss 
complaints about breaches of data protection regulations, regulatory compliance issues, or 
the Human Rights Act 1998. I clarified that I would be considering whether BM had treated 
Ms S fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything and listened to the call recording, and its apparent that some parts of the 
evidence are less relevant to the underlying case than others. There are also a lot of 
duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, 
summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
I have no doubt whatsoever that the years since Mr A passed away have been very difficult 
for Ms S  for reasons beyond her control, but also beyond the control of BM. In addition to 
her grief at the sudden loss of her partner, Ms S also had to cope with issues arising out of 
Mr As estate that resulted in protracted legal proceedings between Ms S and the estate. As 
a result of those proceedings, it wasnt possible for Ms S to sell the property to repay the 
mortgage, which was the intended repayment vehicle for the mortgage at the time it was 
taken out, notwithstanding that the mortgage term came to an end in 2014.
In response to the specific issues Ms S has raised, I will reply as follows:
Data protection issues: BM has confirmed that it was provided with the Grant of Letters of 
Administration by the representative of the estate, and that BM provided the estate with the 
account number, the names on the mortgage account and the property address. This is 
information to which the estate was entitled. There is no evidence of any other information 
being provided to the estate, nor any DSAR other than that made by Ms S. I therefore do not 
uphold this part of the complaint. If Ms S believes her personal data has been released to a 
third party without her consent, Ms S remains free to raise this with the Information 
Commissioners Office.
Refusal to correspond with solicitors: While the account remained in joint names, it 
wasnt possible for BM to change the address on the account. If Ms S required a separate 
correspondence address to be registered for her, or set up a third part authority, Ms S would 
have had to complete BMs documentation for this. BM could not add a third party to the 
account simply on the basis of a telephone request. Im not persuaded, therefore, that BM 
refused, as Ms S alleges, to allow her to be represented by solicitors and so I dont uphold 
this part of the complaint.Customer service: I wont set out all the details of the contact Ms S had with BM, as the 
investigator had gone into details about this, as has Ms S in her letters to BM and to our 
service, and as BM has done in its final response letters and call recording. However, after 
careful review, Im not persuaded BM was disrespectful, misogynistic or that it has 
continually harassed Ms S, as claimed by her. I think BM did its best to explain the limited 
options available once the mortgage had reached the end of its term. I can understand that 
these werent necessarily the answers Ms S wanted from BM. 
Overall, I do not find BM acted unprofessionally or in a threatening manner. I do understand 
that receiving correspondence from BM about the expired mortgage term was distressing. 
However, it is a regulatory requirement that BM provides this information to borrowers. Given 
this, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Term extension: I note that BM granted a 12-month consent to lease in October 2014, 
which would have taken the term end up to October 2015. BM has explained that on its 
previous system, the term would have auto-extended each year to give time for the balance 
to be repaid. This is an internal system process, rather than a formal term extension. After 
migration to a new system, the account did not auto-renew.
Clearly, neither Ms S nor BM could ever have anticipated the legal action would be so 
protracted  and as I said at the outset, this was through no fault of Ms S. I think that over 
the years since the term expired in 2014 BM acted fairly in granting informal extensions 
while it was being updated by Ms S from time to time about what was happening. 
I note that in June 2019 Ms S discussed a term extension with BM, explaining that she was 
still unable to sell the property due to the legal issues. After taking details of income and 
expenditure, it was explained that extending the mortgage on a repayment basis wouldnt be 
affordable. BM noted Ms S owned two other properties, both BTLs. Ms S said she wanted a 
3-5 year extension to repay the mortgage, which BM wasnt able to offer. BM said it could 
give three months for a sale and after that the matter might proceed to litigation and 
repossession. 
Given that five years had elapsed since the mortgage term expired, I can understand why 
BM said it would only give a further three months, and I can also understand why Ms S 
found that upsetting, when the property was still not in her sole name, thus preventing her 
from selling it. In August 2019 this was extended for a further 12 months. 
However, Im not persuaded BM agreed either to a three-year or five-year extension, as Ms 
S says. But in any event, more than three years have now passed since that call in June 
2019 (and two years since the Land Registry transferred the title into Ms Ss sole name), and 
the mortgage balance still hasnt been repaid. The property does not appear to be on the 
market for sale, according to online property portals.
I dont think BM has acted unreasonably in relation to term extensions. The repayment 
vehicle, as stated in the mortgage offer, was to be a sale of the mortgaged property in 2014. 
For reasons beyond Ms Ss control, that couldnt happen, but by 2020 a sale of the property 
would have been possible. If Ms S would prefer not to sell the property, then there are other 
options open to her, such as selling her BTL properties to raise the capital to repay the BM 
mortgage, or else taking out another mortgage with a different lender  BM no longer offers 
new lending on residential properties. Other lenders offer Retirement Interest-only 
mortgages, or equity release mortgages so if Ms S decides not to sell, it would be helpful for 
her to take some advice from an independent financial adviser. But overall Im not persuaded BM has treated Ms S unfairly in relation to granting informal 
term extensions, which I note have, in fact, exceeded the length of the original mortgage 
term.
BM has paid Ms S compensation totalling £350 for customer service issues  specifically not 
dealing with a request for a DSAR made in 2018, and for a lack of clarity in one of BMs 
responses to Ms S in July 2021. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, 
and Im not ordering BM to do anything further.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Ms S was hoping for. I dont underestimate what Ms S has 
gone through following Mr As death. But I cant hold BM responsible for the actions of a third 
party, even though those actions prevented Ms S from dealing with the property until 2020. 
Im also not persuaded BM treated Ms S unprofessionally, disrespectfully or in a way that 
was misogynistic or harassing in nature.
As I said above, Ms S might find it helpful to speak to a financial adviser to discuss her 
options for repaying the mortgage. I would also urge Ms S to maintain an open dialogue with 
BM about her repayment strategy, and to provide BM with full details of the progress of the 
sale. As a last resort, BM will be entitled to pursue legal action for repayment of the 
mortgage, but I trust that will not be necessary, given what Ms S has told us about the 
assets available to her and her plan to sell the property.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman