DRN-2910125
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) reported an 
incident to the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) against their motor insurance policy. 
They accept Mr H was involved in a minor collision while parking Mrs Hs car. However, they 
dont think LV should have reported the incident to CUE or settled the claim - as neither of 
the cars involved in the incident were damaged and they have photographs which show this. 
Mrs H is the principal policyholder and Mr H is a named driver on the policy. For ease of 
reading, Ill just refer to Mrs H throughout. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Under the terms of Mrs Hs policy, LV can independently decide whether to defend a 
claim or settle it. This might mean LV makes a decision that Mrs H disagrees with, as 
has happened here. I dont find this term unusual or surprising as most motor 
insurance policies allow insurers to consider claims in this way. That said, we expect 
an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the available evidence 
before making their decision. LV have acknowledged they didnt do this here  as 
they settled the claim quickly and didnt take Mrs Hs photographs into consideration.
In such circumstances, Id usually need to decide if LV would have made a different 
decision had they considered all the evidence before accepting liability and settling 
the claim. I dont need to do this here however, as LV have merely reported a 
notification only incident to CUE despite settling the claim. This means Mrs H hasnt 
been disadvantaged because of their decision, and I wouldnt need to direct LV to 
make any changes to CUE  even if I did think theyd acted unfairly by accepting 
liability and settling the claim.
CUE is a database of incidents which includes motor, home and personal injury. Its 
purpose is to identify misrepresentation and prevent fraud. Not all insurers are signed 
up to CUE, but the majority are. If an insurer is signed up to CUE, theyll make a 
record of any incident theyve been made aware of and whether it leads to a claim or 
not. LV recorded the incident complained about here on CUE as notification only 
this means no claim was pursued but an incident was reported. Im satisfied LV acted 
reasonably by recording the incident in this way, as while Mrs H disputes the damage 
the third party claimed for and LV ultimately settled  she hasnt denied that a minor 
collision took place. So, there are no grounds to conclude the incident only 
notification has been reported unfairly to CUE or that it should be removed. 
I appreciate Mrs H has said the incident notification could still have a negative impact 
in terms of her future insurance premiums. Some insurers will take notification only 
incidents into consideration, as it can suggest an increased risk of further incidents 
and claims being made in the future. However, this will depend on the individual 
insurer and some dont give any weight to such incidents. I should also explain that if 
LV had reported a fault claim instead of an incident only notification  this would have 
almost certainly increased the risk she posed to most insurers, more than a 
notification only incident would. 
In any event, the price of any future policy isnt something Ive considered here. Ive 
considered if LV acted reasonably by reporting an incident to CUE - and as there is 
no dispute that an incident occurred - Im satisfied they did. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained  I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman