DRN-3020556
The complaint
Mr C complained that he was unsuitably advised to start a free-standing additional voluntary 
contribution plan (FSAVC) by Colonial Mutual, now Aviva Life & Pensions UK.
What happened
In early 2020 representatives for Mr C contacted Aviva and asked for information in respect 
of a policy number held in Mr Cs name. Mr C says hed seen a social media advert about 
the mis-selling of FSAVCs which raised his concerns.
This policy turned out to be an annuity started in July 1992. It was paying out an annual sum 
to Mr C of £283.52. Annual increases of 3% were being applied. Aviva said they were unable 
to confirm the source of the funds used to buy this policy.
Aviva confirmed their records showed Mr C had held a Colonial Mutual (now Aviva) FSAVC 
policy but the only information they held on that policy was a policy number (this differed to 
the policy number for the annuity). They didnt have a start date or any information as to 
whether contributions had been made to the FSAVC.
Aviva went on to reject the complaint made to them that Mr C must have been mis-sold the 
FSAVC. They didnt think it was surprising or unreasonable they didnt have any further 
information as it was now more than 28 years since the annuity had been started. They 
thought any complaint ought to have been made earlier.
Aviva said they couldnt confirm whether the FSAVC for which they held a reference number 
had been used to purchase the annuity in 1992 or not. They noted that it wouldnt normally 
have been possible to convert an FSAVC policy to an annuity until the age of 50, even if 
there were grounds of ill-health. Mr C would have been aged 48 in 1992. And in any event, it 
ought to have only been possible at the time, to convert the FSAVC to an annuity if Mr C had 
taken benefits from the Teachers Pension Scheme at the same time. Mr C hadnt taken 
benefits from the scheme until 2008. So it appeared to Aviva it would not have been 
permissible for retirement benefits to have been taken from the FSAVC policy in 1992
.
Mr Cs representatives referred the complaint to this service. They said he was unsuitably 
advised to start an FSAVC.
 
Mr C thinks the FSAVC was started in the 1980s. Mr C says he had been employed as a 
teacher by his local authority since 1972 (when he was aged 28). He joined the Teachers 
Pension Scheme at the same time. He had been promoted in 1976. Mr C stopped teaching 
and contributing to the Teachers Pension Scheme in June 1992 as a result of poor mental 
health. Mr C has told us he recalls being sent home from work in late 1991 due to his poor 
health. Mr C went on to work in a different field within a union. He then retired and took 
benefits from the Teachers Pension Scheme in December 2008 (aged 64).
Mr Cs representatives say that a previous entity for which Aviva are now responsible 
(Colonial Mutual) appear to have formed a link with the Teachers Union in around 1988/89. 
And its suggested certain products from this provider were marketed strongly (and by 
implication mis-sold) to members of the related scheme. Mr Cs representatives say this 
means its was more likely than not, Mr C was sold an FSAVC by a tied-representative of 
Colonial Mutual.
The representatives think its unlikely there will be evidence Mr Cs attention was directed to 
any difference in charges between an FSAVC and an in-house plan. And even if there is 
evidence, they dont think its plausible to conclude Mr C would have gone on to choose the 
FSAVC.
The representatives suggest that if Aviva has some point of sale documentation then there 
will be more information, but even without anything further, they suggest there are proper 
assumptions that can be made on premiums and other matters.
The representatives agree Aviva have correctly identified that in order for an FSAVC to be 
converted into an annuity, Mr C ought to have been a minimum age of 50 and he ought to 
have taken benefits from his corresponding scheme, but say the fact this didnt happen 
means Mr C was also failed in such a way Aviva ought to be liable for.
An investigator at this service considered Mr Cs complaint. He spoke to Mr C who said hed 
been advised to start an FSAVC by Colonial Mutual and he had contacted Colonial Mutual 
when he wasnt able to work in 1992. Mr C says he was then advised to start an annuity.
 
Investigators view
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he didnt think there was evidence 
suggesting Aviva did something wrong. He noted the lack of any material from the time both 
from Aviva and Mr C.
Mr Cs representatives dont agree. They say that although there is limited information 
available overall, an investigation is possible; albeit primarily based on the balance of 
probabilities. They also thought the investigator had made some factual errors in his view in 
respect of the FSAVC market. It is also suggested that the limited sum being paid out as an 
annuity means Mr C must have had a policy for only a short period of time.
Aviva told us Colonial Mutual didnt start offering FSAVCs until November 1989.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint. I dont think there is sufficient information to establish 
on the balance of probabilities that Mr C was advised in respect of starting an FSAVC with 
Colonial Mutual. I dont accept that even if he was advised, there is enough to reasonably 
conclude its more likely than not, he was unsuitably advised or that he didnt have his 
attention drawn to pertinent matters at the time.
In the circumstances of this complaint, I also dont think theres enough to conclude that in 
1992 at the age of 48, Mr C started an annuity using funds derived from an FSAVC. I also 
dont consider Avivas inability to provide copies of point of sale documents from 1992 and 
any earlier unknown date, are indicative of a failure which means they ought to be 
considered liable for some form of loss or consequential impact upon Mr C as is suggested.
I dont consider Avivas inability to find any further information here to be unreasonable. It is 
unsatisfactory that there is insufficient information generally to understand what happened when an FSAVC appears to have been started by Mr C. But there isnt enough information 
to enable me to fairly reach any reasonable conclusions about what happened or is more 
likely than not to have happened. It isnt clear here for example whether any contributions 
were made to the plan for which only a reference number exists, or if they were, in what sum 
they were made.
It is also unclear as to how Mr C came to start a policy that is referred to as an annuity in 
1992.
 
I have seen Mr C completed Avivas FSAVC questionnaire. In this he notes he met an 
adviser and he provides the name he recalls for the adviser. This has not been sufficient to 
enable Aviva to identify any information. I have checked this name on the regulators register 
and this does not appear to provide any additional assistance.
I accept Mr C has done his best to remember the information as well as he can from the 
time. In the same way I accept Aviva have investigated and provided all the information they 
have been able to identify. 
There is nothing that leads me to conclude it can be said Mr C was unsuitably advised to 
start an FSAVC for which Aviva ought to be held liable.
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman