The complaint
Mr H and Ms H complain that Interactive Investor Services Limited (ii) have unfairly sold 
shares to meet the cost of fees. 
What happened
In late 2013, Mr H wanted to open a stocks and shares junior individual savings account 
(JISA) for his granddaughter with Alliance Trust (AT). The account was opened in his 
daughter, Ms Hs name, given she had parental responsibility. 
A few years later in 2019, ii bought AT out. ii have told us that they are therefore answerable 
to this complaint and any reference made to them throughout this decision includes the 
actions of AT.
The JISA charges were £3.33 a month. But since some point in late 2014, the charges had 
not been paid. 
AT wrote to Ms H in June 2019 asking for the fees to be paid. But as Ms H had moved 
house since the JISA had been opened and she hadnt told AT what her new address was, 
she didnt get the letter. While shed had mail forwarded to her new address for some time 
after the move, nothing had come from AT and she didnt think there would be an issue with 
AT correspondence either seeing as she continued to get emails from them. 
But as ATs letter went unanswered, just under £130 of stock was sold from the JISA the 
following month to cover the fees. 
When Mr H found out about this, he was really unhappy. He didnt think the single demand 
letter to Ms H and nothing to him was sufficient  especially given that any prior mention of 
the fees had been within a statement and not pointed to specifically. He also felt AT ought to 
have checked Ms Hs address, or tried to get in touch using email or the phone, before 
taking such drastic action. 
AT said Ms H was responsible for the account  even though Mr H may have been funding it 
 so thats why their letter went to her. And that their terms allowed them to sell stock to
meet unpaid fees. They said the outstanding balances were noted on the six-monthly
statements that had been issued and said that if Ms H had moved, it was her responsibility
to let them know.
DRN-1887415Unhappy with this, Mr H asked for our help. In the meantime, ii took responsibility for the 
account but as more fees were due they sold another £14 worth of stock. Mr H wasnt happy 
with the move from AT to ii  so he got in touch to let them know he didnt ask for the 
transfer, wasnt happy the fees were so much higher and that it took so long for them to 
update Ms Hs address despite notification from AT. 
One of our investigators had a look into what had happened. But she didnt think AT, or 
latterly ii, had done anything wrong. She felt the statements and warning letter gave Ms H 
notice that the fees were due. And that the terms of the account allowed AT to sell down 
stock to meet unpaid fees. She also said that while Mr H paid the money into the JISA, Ms H 
was set up as the registered contact so the responsibility of monitoring the account was hers 
 and this included updating her address. However, ii had agreed to waive the charges that 
had been accruing on the account since theyd taken over. Overall, the investigator didnt 
think ii needed to do anything more. 
Mr H remained unhappy. He said it is not the case that two reasonable people, like himself 
and his daughter, would have allowed the underlying investments to be dissolved had they 
been aware of the fees. He felt AT hadnt communicated clearly enough as neither himself 
nor his daughter were the sorts of people who wouldnt pay an invoice  especially given that 
its his granddaughter who would ultimately suffer. He also felt AT hadnt upheld their duty of 
care when allowing this account to be moved to ii where the fees tripled. 
As our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, the case was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Mr H understandably has very strong feelings about this complaint. And I 
appreciate that opening this JISA for his granddaughters future is very important to him. 
However, while I recognise this and the impact of selling shares intended to be held for the 
longer term, I must say that I dont think AT or ii did anything wrong here. Ill explain why.
Mr H cites ambiguity in who the responsible person was for the account. And the fact only 
one letter of warning was sent before stock was sold. But I dont think either of these points 
mean AT or ii did anything wrong. I have seen examples of statements that were issued 
every six months  and that Mr H accepts he received  where on page three or four it noted 
the total charged during the period and a value for the fees account. Each statement balance 
was negative and said:
If the balance of your Fees Account is showing as a negative then please note that 
you have overdue fees at the date of this statement and there is insufficient cash 
available to cover the amount due.
So from what I have seen, it was quite clear that an outstanding balance was due. And while 
Mr H said the charges were buried, I dont agree. Depending on the content of the covering 
letter, the balance was noted on either page three or four. And in some instances, the 
covering letter set out what was included within the statement  on page two of the May 
2017 statement, it also said:
 
 It is your responsibility to ensure you have sufficient cash in your account each month 
to cover your Account charges. We will not inform you in advance if we need to sell 
some of your Investments to cover any charges due to us. This is covered in section 
2.1.4 of our Terms and Conditions.
The relevant terms on this point said:
2. Charges
2.1 Our Charges
2.1.4 If you do not have enough Cash in your Account to meet the Charges that are 
due, we will debit all the Cash that becomes available in your Account on a daily basis 
until all sums due are paid in full. In addition, we have the right to apply our 
disinvestment policy as set out in Section 2.1.10 of these General Terms. We will not 
notify you before we do so.

2.1.10 It is your responsibility to make sure you have Cash available to cover our 
Charges and income that you have asked us to pay to you. If you do not have enough 
Cash to cover these payments we will sell Investments in your Account to cover these 
payments in the following way:
(a) where you have given us instructions as to the order in which your Investments 
should be sold, we will follow those instructions;
(b) otherwise, we will sell from the largest holding downwards (prioritising daily traded 
investments) until the payments are met.
And when the JISA was opened, the terms then also said [r]ecovery of unpaid Charges 
We will take all steps necessary to recover any unpaid Charges along with any costs 
or losses incurred in their recovery. Specifically in order to do this we may sell Investments 
within your Account
For these reasons, it ought to have been clear to both Mr H and Ms H that fees were due on 
the account, the terms of the account allowed for AT to sell stock to meet unpaid fees and 
that they didnt need to notify them before doing so (even though they attempted to in this 
case). So I dont think AT acted unfairly or unreasonably in selling stock from the larger 
holding. 
I also dont think its fair to say AT ought to bear responsibility for Ms H not updating her 
address with them. While she was receiving some emails it can be the case that businesses 
use letters for important communication  and it is for customers to let businesses know if 
they move to a new house, AT couldnt fairly have known that in this case. But regardless of 
this, I note that in one of Mr Hs emails to AT he said Ms H had checked her emails and 
confirmed thered been a mix of marketing emails and emails alerting her to the fact that a 
statement is available online. Ms H was therefore also able to review the statements and 
had she have done so, she would have seen an outstanding balance was building. 
Mr H is also unhappy with the transfer from AT to ii, but the sale of a business to another 
isnt something we would get involved with. Ms H got an email in July 2019 letting her know 
about the upcoming changes, so had she and Mr H not have been happy about it they could 
then have moved the JISA elsewhere. Mr H says the marketing email said with the choice 
of three service plans and some charges going down, there is a good chance you will pay less in charges than you do now   while I take his point that iis charges were then in fact 
higher than ATs, there wasnt a guarantee they would reduce. ii have told us that for other 
accounts, the fee was less. And ii have written off the fees here anyway, so I dont think they 
need to do anything more. 
So from all that I have seen, I think enough was done for both Mr H and Ms H to know what 
was happing with the JISA and I dont think it was wrong of AT, or ii, to sell stock when they 
did. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint against Interactive Investor 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman