DRN-3597000
The complaint
Mr G has complained Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund him for transactions he didnt make after 
his debit card was stolen.
What happened
Whilst Mr G was abroad early in 2022 he had his phone stolen along with cards and his 
driving license. He reported this to the police and made Monzo aware of what had 
happened.
More than £10,000 was spent over a short period of time from Mr Gs Monzo account. 
Monzo wouldnt refund Mr G as they believed hed not acted with sufficient care in keeping 
his card and PIN safe.
Mr G brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator didnt believe Mr G had acted in a grossly negligent manner in keeping a 
note of his PIN in his phone. It was not made clear this was his Monzo PIN. She asked 
Monzo to refund Mr G in full.
Monzo asked what our definition of gross negligence was. Our investigator shared guidance 
on this from the Financial Conduct Authority along with the standard our service uses. 
Monzo continued to believe Mr G had acted in a grossly negligent manner. Theyve asked 
an ombudsman to consider this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Gs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply  
specifically in this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent in looking after 
their card and PIN.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Monzo and Mr G have told us.
Firstly theres been no dispute that Mr G made or authorised the 57 disputed transactions at 
the centre of this complaint himself. Im also satisfied he didnt. Therefore I have gone onto 
to consider whether Mr G has acted with gross negligence.
Monzo specifically requested information about how we consider gross negligence. Our 
investigator provided this on 1 July 2022. I see no need to repeat what was said there other 
than to state that gross negligence is not stupidity or carelessness but a lack of care which 
goes beyond acting in the way a reasonable person would have done. Its worth saying this 
is a high bar to get over.
Monzo will also be aware that our service has completed numerous final decisions clarifying 
these issues.
Monzo believes the multiple factors involved in Mr Gs case go to show he acted with gross 
negligence. These include:
Storing his PIN in his phone notes despite having access to his PIN through his 
Monzo app; and
Wandering through a tourist area whilst using his phone.
I dont dispute that it sounds most likely Mr G  whos confirmed this himself  was using his 
phone and this meant when this was stolen, thieves were able to access his notes without 
going through any security set on the phone. 
Although Monzo have said this isnt the issue, it seems they believe Mr Gs actions 
contributed to him being a victim of crime. Im afraid I dont agree. Mr G was a victim. I dont 
believe his actions  checking directions on his phone in a tourist area  contributed to this.
If I apply the reasonable person test in this instance, then its clear I believe that Mr G has 
acted reasonably in using his phone in public.
I appreciate Monzo believes theres no reason for Mr G to have written his PIN down. But 
Monzo will be well aware that theres nothing unusual in Mr G having done this. This was 
normally password-protected so I believe Mr G had taken steps to secure his card and PIN 
separately.
Mr G has asked why Monzo didnt, in fact, notice the fraud themselves. Mr G had another 
card stolen at the same time and the other bank contacted him and were alert to the unusual 
activity on his account. Theres no doubt the number and variety of transactions that 
happened on Mr Gs Monzo account did not match his normal usage. Its not my role to 
question the procedures Monzo have in place to detect fraud as our service is not the 
regulator. But I can see why Mr G may think that Monzos actions could also be said to have 
contributed to what happened.
I am satisfied Mr G didnt act in a grossly negligent manner.
Putting things right
In accordance with the Payment Services Regulations I am asking Monzo to refund the 
57 disputed transactions that took place in January 2022. And in accordance with the 
approach our service takes, Im also instructing Monzo to add 8% simple interest a year to 
those amounts from the date of debit.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund Mr G for the amounts taken from his account in January 2022 by 57 disputed 
transactions; and
Add 8% simple interest to those amounts from the date of debiting to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman