DRN-3377067
The complaint
Mr C complains that in 2016 and 2017 he was told by ReAssure Limited that his life policy 
with it was a whole of life policy (WOL). However, it was a level term assurance policy that 
ended in 2022. Mr C says he would have cancelled the policy in 2016 or 2017 if hed been 
told it was a level term assurance.
What happened
In August 2002, Mr C took out an off-set mortgage facility for £80,000. And at the same time, 
he took out a level term assurance policy with a business that has since been acquired by 
ReAssure. Mr C paid off the mortgage in about 2015. In 2016 he called ReAssure and 
agreed to continue with the policy because he was told the life cover would pay out on his 
death. Mr C says he visited his bank in 2017 to provide evidence of his new address and 
that he was told the same thing.
In 2021, Mr C realised the policy wasnt WOL but instead had a term that ended in 2022. He 
complained to ReAssure that if it had told him the policy wasnt WOL in 2016 and 2017, he 
would have cancelled it. ReAssure provided a final response to Mr Cs complaint and said it 
hadnt provided Mr C with incorrect advice about the policy and that the policy it sold at the 
time was suitable for the type of mortgage taken.
Mr C didnt agree with ReAssure and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. One of our Investigators looked into things for Mr C and thought that ReAssure 
hadnt done anything substantially wrong.
Mr C has asked that an Ombudsman decides his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr C will be disappointed with my final decision, but for very much the same 
reasons as the Investigator Ive decided ReAssure havent done anything wrong. I will now 
explain why.
Mr C took out an off-set mortgage and the ReAssure policy was taken out to protect it in 
case he died. One of the features of an off-set mortgage is that a facility is agreed and at any 
time the amount of borrowing could be up to the limit of the facility. So, in this case, because 
the limit was £80,000 for the term of the mortgage, I consider a level term assurance was a 
suitable policy. Although Mr C feels hed taken out a WOL policy, the documents from the 
time of the sale explained the life cover was fixed for the amount of the mortgage and for 20 
years from 2002.
In late 2016, Mr C called ReAssure to tell it of a change of address. And, at the same time 
Mr C says he told ReAssure he no longer had a mortgage. Although there is no call 
recording, ReAssure has provided a copy of the notes it made at the time. ReAssure record 
it told Mr C the policy was still covering him in the event of death for £80,000 and that the 
cover was level. Mr C was told he needed to go into a branch to change his address. 
Mr C says he called into a branch in 2017 to change his address and was told the same as 
he was told in 2016. Whilst it seems likely Mr C provided evidence of his new address Ive 
not seen anything that persuades me a conversation about the type of policy Mr C held took 
place.
The initial documents make it reasonably clear the policy was not WOL. Regardless of this, I 
consider its more likely than not ReAssure told Mr C his policy was level in November 2016. 
Although the note doesnt explicitly say the policy was a level term assurance, Im not 
persuaded that ReAssure ever told Mr C the policy was for the whole of his life. 
My final decision
For the above reasons Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman