DRN-3866781
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) 
provided him with misleading information that resulted in him selling cryptocurrency backed 
assets held within his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) when he did not need to do so.
What happened
Mr L held two cryptocurrency exchange traded notes (ETNs) in his SIPP. On 6 October 
2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as industry regular announced its intention to 
ban the sale of crypto-derivatives (which included ETNs) to retail consumers.
On 30 October 2020, HLAM contacted all of its customers that held cryptocurrency 
investments about the FCAs announcement. Mr L states that on reading HLAMs email, he 
understood that after 6 January 2021 his cryptocurrency ETNs would be removed from 
HLAMs platform, and that he would be unable to sell them. Concerned that cryptocurrency 
investors would be seeking to sell urgently and would cause values to drop sharply, Mr L 
sold his holdings on 4 November.
Separately, Mr L had contacted the FCA to complain about its approach to cryptoassets. The 
FCA responded to Mr L several weeks after he had sold his ETNs. It confirmed that under its 
new rules, retail consumers with existing cryptocurrency investments could retain their 
holdings if they wished to, and that there was no time limit on this.
Mr L complained to HLAM that its correspondence to him had been misleading, causing him 
to sell his ETNs when there was no need for him to do so. HLAMs response was that it did 
not accept that it had misled Mr L.
Mr L brought a complaint to this service. He has said that HLAMs email did not make it clear 
that under the new FCA rules, he could hold his ETNs indefinitely. Instead, he says that 
HLAMs wording was ambiguous, and suggested that he would need to sell his assets by 6 
January. Mr Ls view is that this led him to unnecessarily sell his holdings when he did not 
want to, and to incur dealing charges. He has asked that HLAM be required to restore these 
holdings to his SIPP.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. His view was that when read in its entirety, 
HLAMs October 2020 communication to Mr L was not misleading.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators findings. He has stated that no reasonable person 
reading HLAMs cryptocurrency email could have failed to infer what he did, and that it was 
deficient in detail. Further to this, Mr L has said that HLAM made a fundamental error in its 
choice of wording in October 2020, resulting in it failing to meet the requirements of good 
industry practice.
In particular, Mr L has highlighted the headline of HLAMs email - The FCA are banning the 
trade of certain types of investments you hold  and the sentence The FCA have asked that 
investment platforms like HL remove these types of investments by 6 January at the latest. 
His view is that this wording would lead a reasonable person to understand that crypto 
investments would be removed from HLAMs platform completely after 6 January, and that 
investors would be unable to sell them or hold them at all. Mr L has reiterated that his 
interpretation of HLAMs email led him to sell his ETNs, believing they would be removed 
from the platform after 6 January.
It was only having been in contact with the FCA that Mr L realised that there was no time 
limit for him holding the ETNs. He says HLAMs wording failed to adequately explain that the 
FCAs rules related to limiting the future purchase of crypto investments, but allowed him to 
retain his existing investments until he chose to disinvest.
Mr L has questioned why HLAM did not simply use the FCAs wording in its October 2020 
email, rather than rewriting it. By sending the email that it did, he considers HLAM misled 
him to disinvest before 6 January, and he has asked to be compensated for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint relates to whether HLAMs October 2020 email sent to Mr L was 
misleading, causing him to take actions that were to his financial detriment.
I think it would be helpful to provide here the text of HLAMs email. It read;
Important information  The FCA are banning the trade of certain types of 
investments that you hold 
Dear [consumer],
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) have recently published rules which ban the 
sale of crypto-currency derivatives and Exchange Traded Notes (ETNs).
The FCA have asked that investment platforms like HL remove these types of 
investments by 6 January at the latest. Having reviewed the FCA assessment, weve 
made the decision that from Friday 30 October you will no longer be able to purchase 
new units in the funds listed below. 
You can continue to hold the units you already hold or sell them at any time. 
Investment name
[Mr Ls two ETNs were listed here]
We have outlined the FCAs reasons for their decision below, we recommend you 
read these and assess your own position and whether or not your investments are 
meeting your needs.
Why have the FCA made this decision?
The FCA reviewed these products and have outlined the following as reasons for 
their decision: 
The inherent nature of the underlying assets means they have no reliable 
basis for valuation
Extreme volatility in cryptoasset price movementsLack of legitimate investment need for private consumers to invest in these 
products  
We understand this may cause inconvenience, but the regulation is very clear.
This letter is not investment advice. If youre unsure if a particular investment is right 
for you please contact us for advice. 
Mr L has highlighted the wording used in the headline of the email, and the sentence that 
states investment platforms have been asked to remove these types of investments by 6 
January. Whilst I appreciate what Mr L is saying about these particular parts of HLAMs 
email, my view is that I need to consider the entirety of the email when assessing whether its 
content was misleading.
The first sentence below the email heading explains that rules have been published that ban 
the sale of cryptocurrency derivatives and ETNs. In my view, that accurately reflects the fact 
that the FCA rules related to the sale of these assets to retail consumers.
The next sentence relating to investment platforms removing these types of investments by 
6 January is the one that Mr L has said misled him to believe that he needed to sell his ETNs 
by this date. But I consider the following two sentences in HLAMs email to also be relevant 
when assessing the complaint that Mr L has made.
Firstly, HLAM explained that Mr L would no longer be able to purchase new units in his two 
ETNs from 30 October. It was then explained that Mr L would be able to continue to hold the 
ETN units he already had, or that he could sell them at any time.
Mr Ls view is that HLAMs comment that these types of investment needed to be removed 
from investment platforms was reasonably interpreted by him as a requirement for him to sell 
the ETNs by 6 January. But the previous sentence explained what was being banned was 
the sale of these assets. And in my view, HLAMs email did make it clear that units in 
cryptoassets, such as those that Mr L had, could continue to be held, or could be sold. 
HLAMs email did not state that there was any deadline for selling the assets, and instead 
confirmed that this could be done at any time.
I have thought carefully about how Mr L says he interpreted HLAMs email. It is clear that 
when he sold his ETNs, this was due to his genuine belief that he needed to do this by 6 
January. But I must consider whether HLAM can reasonably be said to have misled Mr L into 
this course of action due to the content of its communication with him. Overall, my view is 
that the email HLAM sent in October 2020 was sufficiently clear when explaining to Mr L the 
FCAs rule changes, and what this meant to his ETN holdings. In the event that Mr L 
required some clarification about the implications that its email might have on his ability to 
retain his holdings, he was able to contact HLAM to discuss this further.
I appreciate Mr L is likely to be disappointed with my findings. However on balance, I do not 
consider HLAM is responsible for any financial loss that Mr L may have suffered as a result 
of selling his ETNs when he did, and consequently my view is that it would not be 
reasonable for me to require it to pay compensation in this regard.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023. 
John SwainOmbudsman