DRN-2740126
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain that Zurich Assurance Ltd didnt reinstate their whole of life policy. 
Mr M and Mrs M are being represented by their daughter  Ms B  but for ease Ill refer to 
Mr M and Mrs M throughout the decision.  
What happened
In 1994 Mr M and Mrs M took out their whole of life policy. In 2016 Mr M and Mrs M entered 
into a Contribution Holiday Option (CHO) after having a conversation with Zurich. 
In 2019 Mr M and Mrs M made a complaint to Zurich about being unfairly penalised by 
entering into the CHO. Zurich issued a final response letter  dated 29 April 2019  
upholding the complaint. It offered £150 for the trouble and upset it had caused. And Zurich 
said Mr M and Mrs M could apply for their policy to be reinstated subject to underwriting 
requirements. 
In February 2020 Mr M and Mrs M completed a medical declaration form to reinstate their 
policy. Zurich reviewed the information they provided on the form and said it wasnt prepared 
to reinstate the policy. It said Mr Ms health had changed due to heart failure. 
Mr M and Mrs M were unhappy with this decision, so they complained to this service on 
16 April 2020. Mr M and Mrs M said they were unhappy they had been put into the CHO in 
2016, and that Zurich had then refused to reinstate their policy. They added that Zurich had 
discriminated against Mr M on the grounds of his age and his health. 
Zurich said to this service that the complaint about entering into a CHO had been made too 
late. So, this service didnt have its permission to investigate those issues. Zurich did review 
the complaint about its decision not to reinstate the policy. It issued a final response  dated 
26 November 2020  saying it wasnt prepared to reinstate their policy due to the change in 
Mr Ms health. 
Our investigator didnt think this service could consider the complaint about the CHO 
because it had been brought to this service too late. And she didnt think the complaint about 
Zurich not reinstating the policy should be upheld. She said Zurich hadnt treated 
Mr M and Mrs M unfairly when it asked them to complete a medical declaration. This was 
because the form was part of its standard process so it can make sure Mr M and Mrs M 
were properly insured. And she didnt think Mr M had been discriminated against. 
Mr M and Mrs M disagreed. They said they completed the medical declaration in good faith 
and felt they were now being punished by Zurich who told them the information would be 
reviewed sympathetically. They added that Mr M is in good health and the medical 
declaration was merely a tick box exercise which has led to an unfair outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr M and Mrs M feel strongly about this complaint and this will come 
as a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
The investigator has correctly explained that the complaint about entering into a CHO was 
made out of time. Zurich gave Mr M and Mrs M six months to contact this service from its 
letter  dated 29 April 2019. But Mr M and Mrs M didnt contact this service until almost a 
year later in April 2020. Because the complaint was brought too late, it means Im unable to 
reach a decision on that aspect of their complaint or comment any further on what 
happened. 
Ive considered the complaint about Zurichs decision not to reinstate Mr M and Mrs Ms 
policy. And I should explain that in considering this complaint, its not for me to reach a 
medical opinion on whether Mr M is or isnt healthy enough to be insured by Zurich. Instead, 
I have to consider whether Zurich assessed the application fairly and reasonably based upon 
the information it was provided with. 
Ive considered that Mr M and Mrs M completed the medical declaration honestly and why 
they feel theyve been punished for doing so. And I understand why they feel the medical 
declaration wasnt necessary and that this wasnt reviewed sympathetically. 
An insurer asks for medical information so that it can understand its customers health. But if 
the medical information isnt provided, this wouldve been considered a potential mis-
representation if Mr M and Mrs M needed to claim under the policy at a later date, on the 
grounds the medical declaration wasnt completed to the best of their knowledge. 
Zurich has provided this service with evidence that its policy is to ask all its customers for 
medical information after more than thirteen months have passed since a payment was 
made on a policy. It says the reason it does this is because of the time that has passed 
without any premiums being paid which can affect a policys value compared to where it 
wouldve been if the premiums had continued. 
Mr M and Mrs Ms policy was accepted in 1994 on standard terms. But the change in Mr Ms 
health causes an increased risk to Zurich. And because Zurich cant alter the terms of the 
plan when a policy is asked to be reinstated, it will either allow the reinstatement if the risk is 
the same or decline it if the risk has changed. 
Despite Zurich only taking a few days to review the medical declaration I cant see any 
evidence to show the application wasnt treated sympathetically or unfairly here. Its Zurichs 
discretion whether its underwriters wanted to accept the risk. The medical declaration was 
reviewed, and Zurich didnt want to accept the risk due to Mr Ms medical history and the 
information it had at the time. Which Im satisfied its entitled to do. I dont think the speed in 
which the decision was reached, or the fact no further information was requested from a GP 
means it wasnt reviewed fairly or sympathetically.
Was Mr M discriminated against? Mr M and Mrs M said Zurich has discriminated against Mr M due to his age and condition. 
Ive considered all the relevant legislation when reviewing this aspect of the complaint. For 
me to be satisfied Mr M was discriminated against, Id need to see that he was treated 
differently or less fairly than other customers due to a protected characteristic - his age and 
health in this case. I can understand why he feels this way but having looked at all the 
evidence, and bearing in mind what Ive explained above, I dont think Zurich has done so. 
Nor do I think Zurich has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Zurichs request for a medical declaration to be 
completed is standard for all customers and wasnt linked to Mr Ms age or health. And its at 
the discretion of the underwriters to decide what level of risk theyre willing to take on. The 
underwriter decided not to accept the application to reinstate the policy and Zurich is entitled 
to do that. I understand this isnt the outcome Mr M and Mrs M wanted but I hope it helps 
them to know that someone impartial and independent has investigated their concerns.
 
So, Im not minded to ask Zurich to take any further action here.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman