DRN-3641445
The complaint
Mr W, who is represented by a third party, complained that Lendable Ltd (Lendable), 
irresponsibly granted him a credit card account that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr W took out a credit card with Lendable in October 2021. The information about the card 
shows that Mr W applied for the card through an intermediary, this being one of the 
companies through which consumers can otherwise keep track of their credit history and 
credit score free of charge.
The credit limit was £500, and the minimum payment each month was the higher of £5 or 
2% of the balance shown on the statement (excluding interest) plus any interest charged 
since the date of the last statement. Lendable also recommended a monthly payment of 5% 
of the credit limit (unless the minimum payment was higher)  so on a credit limit of £500 this 
wouldve been £25. The interest rate on the card was 29.9% APR (variable).
Mr W complained that Lendable failed to conduct thorough, appropriate and reasonable 
checks, specific to his application. Lendable said that it had carried out stringent affordability 
checks, and told Mr W that it did not uphold his complaint. 
Mr W then brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it but didnt think 
it should be upheld. Mr W didnt agree and asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website, and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why. 
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks required of a lender, but it needs to 
ensure they are proportionate when considering things such as the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances. So Ive considered whether Lendable completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W would be able to make the repayments on the 
credit card account in a sustainable way.
Lendable has described the checks it completed when opening Mr Ws account, and has 
also sent in a copy of Mr Ws credit file on which it based the lending decision. Lendable said 
that it verified Mr Ws net monthly income, using industry standard tools, as £1,597, which 
was less than the figure given on the credit card application (Mr W hasnt disputed this lower 
amount). It also noted that the credit file showed two active accounts, one of which was a 
current account with an overdraft and one an unsecured loan where it was recorded that Mr 
W had met all payments on time for the preceding 12 months and the accounts remained in 
good standing throughout.
Lendable further said that Mr Ws credit file showed two credit cards and two unsecured loan 
accounts in default where he had consistently been making repayments over the preceding 
12 months to clear the outstanding balance. And alongside this there were two loans and 
one credit card, formerly listed as defaulted, but which had been settled in full.
On that basis, Lendable said it had had concluded that the pattern of activity was that of 
someone looking to rebuild their credit history, and the credit card on offer was tailored to 
someone in that position. It decided that the increase in credit would be sustainable for Mr W 
based on his recent history. Lendable further stated that Mr W had met all minimum monthly 
contractual repayments on time since activating the card, and indeed had paid more. 
Overall I think Lendable carried out proportionate checks relative to the amount of credit 
being granted. I say this because it completed a credit check, which provided a picture of Mr 
Ws credit history and commitments, and verified Mr Ws income. It took into account only 
the lower figure it was able to confirm, rather than the higher figure it said was stated on Mr 
Ws application. 
However, just because I think Lendable carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt 
automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence 
and information showed. Having done so Im satisfied that the checks that were completed 
showed that the credit card was likely to be affordable for Mr W. 
I say this because the credit limit was quite low - £500  and although Mr W had clearly had 
financial problems, the credit report showed that he had previously settled some accounts 
that had been in default, and was making payments to clear other defaulted accounts. 
Payments on a more recent personal loan were up to date, and although Mr Ws current 
account was regularly overdrawn, this was within the stated overdraft limit. 
Lendable didnt say whether it had carried out other expenditure checks, but based on the 
figures shown on the credit report, and the lower income figure that Lendable said it verified, 
Ive no reason to think Mr W wouldve been unable to meet a monthly commitment of an 
additional £25.
Ive also kept in mind Lendables comment that the card was tailored to those looking to 
improve their credit history, so applicants are likely to have had financial difficulties as Mr W 
has had. 
Taking all this into account, I dont think Lendable acted unfairly when approving Mr Ws 
finance application, so I dont think he has lost out.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman