DRN-2670931
The complaint
Miss B complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
FCE Bank plc, trading as Ford Credit, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Miss B under a hire purchase agreement with Ford Credit that 
she electronically signed in December 2019. There was a fault with one of the cars injectors 
which was replaced by the dealer. There was then a fault with the cars panoramic roof and 
the required replacement part wasnt available. 
Miss B complained to Ford Credit in February 2020 about the issues with the car and it 
accepted her request to reject the car and said that it would refund her March payment of 
£395.92 and her deposit of £1,774.01. Miss B said that the value of the car that shed part-
exchanged was £3,150 so she complained to this service. 
Our investigator said that Miss B had bought extras from the dealer which cost £1,375.99 
and which it had deducted from the part-exchange value so the deposit that was included on 
the agreement was £1,774.01. He said that it was fair and reasonable for Ford Credit to 
refund the deposit of £1,774.01 and the March payment to Miss B. But he said that Miss B 
had continued to make her monthly payments after the car had been returned in July 2020 
and Miss B had been provided with a courtesy car until October 2020  so he recommended 
that Ford Credit should also refund the monthly payments from when she handed the 
courtesy car back in October 2020, with interest.
Ford Credit has accepted that recommendation but Miss B has asked for her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ford Credit, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss B - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage 
of the car and the price that was paid for it;
there was a fault with one of the cars injectors which was replaced by the dealer but 
there was then a fault with the cars panoramic roof and the required replacement 
part wasnt available  so Ford Credit accepted her request to reject the car in March 
2020 and it said that it would refund the March payment of £395.92 and her deposit 
of £1,774.01;
the hire purchase agreement clearly set out that a part-exchange deposit of 
£1,774.01 was made for the car and that the amount of credit was £32,930.96; 
the dealers invoice for the car shows a net part exchange allowance of £3,150 but it 
also shows that Miss B bought car care products from it which cost £1,375.99  
those products werent part of the credit agreement so the cost of them was 
deducted from the part-exchange value and the deposit that was paid to Ford Credit 
for the car was £1,774.01;
our investigator said that Miss B should contact the providers of those products for 
pro-rata refunds and that he would consider it further if she was unable to obtain 
refunds  Ive seen no evidence to show that Miss B has claimed such refunds or 
that shes been unable to obtain refunds  and I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Ford Credit to reimburse her for the cost of those 
products;
there were clearly some faults with the car but Miss B was able to use it and was 
provided with a courtesy car when it was being repaired;
Ford Credit said that she could reject the car in March 2020 but it didnt collect it until 
July 2020  that was because of the restrictions imposed by the Government in 
response to Covid-19  but Miss B still had the car and was able to use it (and I 
understand that shed driven more than 4,000 miles in it when it was collected);
Miss B was provided with a courtesy car when the car was collected from her in July 
2020  and she returned the courtesy car in October 2020;
Miss B has continued to make the monthly payments under that agreement and I find 
that Ford Credit should refund to her the monthly payments that shes made for the 
period since she returned the courtesy car in October 2020, with interest  and Ford 
Credit has agreed to do so; and
Ford Credit offered to refund to Miss B the March 2020 because of the issues with 
the car and I consider that to be fair and reasonable  but Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to refund to her any other monthly 
payments for the period before she returned the courtesy car in October 2020  
thats because she had use of the car (or a courtesy car) and I dont consider that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require Ford Credit to refund to her the monthly 
payments for the period between March 2020 and July 2020.
Putting things right
The car has been collected by Ford Credit and Miss B has returned the courtesy car that 
was provided to her. I find that Ford Credit should end the hire purchase agreement at no 
cost to Miss B. 
Ford Credit has offered to refund to Miss B the part-exchange deposit of £1,774.01 that was 
shown on the agreement and the monthly payment of March 2020. I find it to be fair and 
reasonable that it should make those payments to her but that it should also pay interest on 
those amounts.
I also find that it would be fair and reasonable for Ford Credit to refund to Miss B the monthly 
payments that shes made under the agreement for the period since she returned the 
courtesy car in October 2020, with interest. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to pay her any other compensation  or to take any other 
action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint and I order FCE Bank plc, trading as Ford 
Credit, to:1. End the hire purchase agreement at no cost to Miss B.
2. Refund to Miss B the deposit of £1,774.01 that she made for the car.
3. Refund to Miss B the monthly payment that she made under the agreement for 
March 2020.
4. Refund to Miss B the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement for 
the period since she returned the courtesy car in October 2020.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Ford Credit to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 5 above. Ford Credit must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman