DRN-2704724
The complaint
Mr S, on behalf of a company Ill call E, complains about Aviva Insurance Limited under a 
commercial office policy. The crux of the complaint centres on four alleged failures;
(i) To promptly process a claim for legal expenses cover; 
(ii) To promptly refund Counsels Fees incurred as a result of point (i);
(iii) To deal with a complaint; and
(iv) To promptly provide a copy of the complaints policy.
Aviva has agents that handle claims and complaints on its behalf and so Ill be referring to 
Aviva throughout this decision.
What happened
E is a company that provides professional and regulated services. Mr S is an experience 
professional in his field and he, and E are well-versed in contracts, contractual wording and 
legal matters.
When Mr S brought Es complaint it was apparent that the subject matter of the claim related 
to legal expenses cover for an Employment Tribunal matter being brought against E by a 
former employee. Under the Office Policy theres cover for legal expenses and so E made a 
claim to Aviva. A brief timeline is as follows;
- 1 Nov 2019 claim lodged
- 8 Nov Aviva requested further information, which E provided and asked for the matter 
to be expedited as papers had to be lodged with the Tribunal by 22 Nov
- E hadnt heard anything back and wrote on 15th, 21st but still heard nothing so made 
a complaint to Aviva on 25th November
- Complaints policy provided 20 Jan 2020.
Mr S says the delays have caused unnecessary stress and inconvenience and potentially 
expose E to liability which it had to cover. Mr S explained the liability as incurring legal and 
counsels fees and while this was claimed on 3 Jan 2020 reimbursement (as of 20 Jan 2020) 
hadnt been made. 
 
Aviva corresponded with Mr S on 23 January 2020. It said there hadnt been delays about 
assessing cover but there was a breakdown in the quality of communication. Aviva explained 
the notification was received on Monday 4 November and an initial review happened on 15 
November. Further information was required on whether E held a legal expenses policy 
when the claimant was dismissed in April 2018. Additional checks were done on 20 
November as to whether the previous policy had cover and this was confirmed on 28 
November by which time Mr S had lodged a complaint.  
A legal opinion on the prospects of success was completed in January 2020. Aviva 
apologised as it felt it could have made further contact to manage Mr S expectations around 
the further checks.
Aviva sent correspondence to Mr S outlining the following;
- The claim process was correctly handled by its Agent as detailed in the policy.
- Panel solicitors assessed the merits of the claim which was reasonable given there 
may be a Tribunal award.
- Panel solicitors considered some aspects of the claim had prospects of success 
while others did not, and a further review was carried out at Mr S request but the 
same outcome reached.
- Further consideration was offered if Mr S provided counsels opinion on the matter of 
prospects.
- Ultimately Aviva believed it was entitled to rely on panel solicitors opinion.
Our investigator explained her view that Aviva had acted fairly;
- Its common for insurers agents to validate a policy; when it started and whether it 
provides cover for the dispute claimed. While Mr S found this frustrating, she was 
satisfied this was done broadly within a reasonable time. 
- She acknowledged a small delay in having the case sent for assessment but felt 
Avivas apology and feedback was appropriate.
- On Mr S raising a complaint she said the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets the 
rules for timeliness and the complaints procedure was provided within the eight 
weeks permitted to issue a final response letter.
- In any case she wasnt satisfied this had caused any detriment and noted that even 
in the absence of compliance with eight weeks a complainant can still bring their 
complaint to us for investigation.
- On refunding counsels fees, she noted the policy like most legal expenses policies, 
excluded costs incurred without authority from the claim handling team.
- The investigator wasnt satisfied there was anything to suggest the agents actions 
left no choice but to incur the fees.
- Aviva had offered to consider costs on conclusion of the claim when a cost 
assessment takes place and that was fair.
Mr S, on behalf of E, disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to make 
a final decision. In summary he said;
- The investigator hadnt contacted him for clarification on any point.
- She had assumed Aviva was right ignoring the fact that legal proceedings were 
underway.
- The Tribunal imposed deadlines and Avivas failure to provide indemnity meant he 
had to deal with the matter along with Counsels assistance.
- It cant be correct to have to wait until the matter concludes before a costs review
- If nothing else E should be compensated for counsels fees.
In passing the complaint to an ombudsman, the investigator confirmed that Avivas offer to 
review costs upon conclusion of the matter was fair and in line with what wed expect it to do 
in the circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the provisions set out in the regulators handbook1, insurers duties include handling 
claims promptly and fairly. 
1 ICOBS 8.1E has legal expenses cover under a commercial office insurance policy. E offers 
professional services and Mr S is well-acquainted with commercial contracts and contractual 
wording. 
Policy coverage
Under the policy there is cover for employment disputes, which was the subject matter E 
was a respondent in Tribunal proceedings. This cover includes legal costs and 
compensation awards. As with all insurance policies there are terms and conditions 
applicable which define and limit cover. Legal costs must, among other things, be 
reasonable and necessary and there is a specific exclusion for costs and expenses incurred 
before the written acceptance of a claim. 
The foregoing leads in to the issue of counsel fees that Mr S believes should be paid by 
Aviva. Avivas initial decision on prospects of success, a requirement for cover to apply, was 
that some parts of Es claim had prospects, and some did not. The lawyers legal opinion 
was shared with Mr S and he disagreed believing all matters had prospects. Lawyers 
reviewed prospects in light of Mr S objections but maintained the same view.  And he was 
advised if he obtained counsels opinion at his own expense that supported prospects then 
the matter could move forward on all issues. Such an opinion was provided in June 2020 
and Mr S was refunded that fee for the prospects opinion.
The fees Mr S wants refunded (when he brought his complaint) were incurred before his 
claim for legal expenses was accepted. And under the policy those costs arent covered. 
Thinking carefully about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Ive thought 
about whether the fact Mr S counsel subsequently opined that the claim has prospects 
should mean its fair to require Aviva to pay fees incurred before it accepted the claim. Like 
the investigator, Ive concluded that it wouldnt and will explain why.
Our general position is that an insurer should get legal advice before deciding whether a 
claim has reasonable prospects of success such that the policy will cover legal costs. And 
the insurer is entitled to rely on that advice, unless its obviously wrong. There is nothing to 
suggest that was the case here. Lawyers will differ in their view on a case  that is why 
cases go to litigation because the claimant and respondent are trying to prove their case as 
their respective legal positions differ. Once Mr S counsels opinion was reviewed Aviva 
accepted all aspects of prospects but that doesnt mean the initial opinion and review were 
obviously wrong. And so, Im satisfied in the circumstances that Avivas position on fees 
incurred before accepting the claim is fair.
Aviva has confirmed to Mr S several times that it will consider these costs at the end of the 
claim and when the cost assessment takes place. Im satisfied thats a reasonable approach 
as it keeps the door open for those fees, in part or in full, to be refunded if they were 
reasonable and necessary. Ultimately though that decision can only be made once the 
assessment takes place.
Handling the claim promptly and fairly
I now turn to Mr S point about the failure to promptly process the claim. Legal expenses 
insurers delegate claims handling and legal opinions to agents. When a claim is lodged there 
is a process of policy validation and then an assessment in principle about whether the claim 
type (here the employment dispute) is covered. Once that occurs, and its accepted the 
policy is correctly validated and in principle offers cover for the proposed matter, insurers 
instruct panel solicitors to carry out a legal opinion on the prospects of success of the 
particular matter. Mr S claim was lodged shortly before close of the business day on Friday 1 November. The 
notification was picked up on Monday 4 November and various checks and requests were 
made about the policy and policy coverage, particularly as the subject matter of the claim 
arose in a previous policy year. Checks were completed and the initial review done before 
the end of November and Im satisfied that was, in the circumstances, prompt. I note Aviva 
accepted some of its communication could have been better, Mr S expectations managed 
appropriately and there was a small delay is dealing with the merits assessment. The legal 
opinion on prospects was completed in January and reviewed shortly thereafter at Mr S 
request. And in February Aviva informed Mr S that if he provided counsels opinion on 
prospects of the remaining matters, and it was in his favour, it would cover these aspects. It 
took until June for such an opinion to be provided. Having thought carefully about what 
happened Im satisfied Aviva handled the claim promptly and fairly. Im satisfied its apology 
for minor shortcomings is appropriate redress in the circumstances. 
Dealing with Mr S complaint
Complaint handling per se is not a regulated activity and so if the crux of Mr S concern here 
is separate to and distinct from the claim handling we wouldnt be able to look at that issue  
our rules dont permit this. 
My view is that Mr S concerns around how Aviva handled his complaint are ancillary activity 
to how the contract of insurance was being carried out. The complaint was driven by Mr S 
view of delays in the process and handling, and he wanted matters to move on quickly. So, 
Im of the view the complaint was in reality part and parcel of how Aviva was handling the 
claim. Ive commented already on why Im satisfied Aviva handled the claim promptly and 
fairly in all the circumstances. Nothing about the complaint caused any loss attributable to 
how Aviva handled the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited. Aviva has offered to consider 
unauthorised costs when the claim is concluded and a cost assessment is done, which I 
determine is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman