DRN-2921566
The complaint
Mr C and Miss Ts complaint is about a mortgage they held with The Co-operative Bank Plc 
trading as Platform and a subsequent mortgage application made by Miss T. When they 
repaid the mortgage in 2020, they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC). They 
believed the ERC would be refunded as it was intended that the interest rate product would 
be ported to the new mortgage in Miss Ts name. However, the new mortgage didnt go 
ahead, so the product couldnt be ported and the ERC wasnt refunded. Miss T believes this 
was Platforms fault because, although it made the mortgage offer within the predicted 
timescales, it didnt include sufficient or clear enough information to allow her to accept the 
offer. 
They want the ERC refunded in settlement of the complaint, along with the fees associated 
with the new mortgage application being reimbursed to Miss T.
What happened
In 2017 Mr C and Miss T took out a mortgage with Platform to purchase a property. the 
mortgage had a five-year interest rate product attached to it until the end of November 2022. 
The mortgage offer explained that if the mortgage was paid off before that date, an ERC 
would be payable. 
In 2020 Mr C and Miss T decided to sell the property. The mortgage was repaid, and the 
ERC paid, in the middle of October 2020.
In July 2020 Miss T had started to talk to Platform about taking out a new mortgage in just 
her name and porting the existing interest rate product so that the ERC would be refunded. 
Miss T made an application in September 2020 and Platform issued its offer in November 
2020. The offer included a special condition:
This offer is subject to our legal representatives confirming in writing that a specialist 
contractor will be instructed to inspect the whole property and report on internal dampness 
and the condition of all timbers including the sub-floor/roof void(s)/other and that any works 
required to be carried out and covered by an insurance backed guarantee within 6 months of 
completion. This report is required regardless of any existing guarantees.
Miss T had enquiries made about compliance with this condition, but she wasnt satisfied 
with the responses. She didnt accept the offer and took a mortgage elsewhere. 
Platform responded to Mr C and Miss Ts complaint. It explained that the six to eight-week 
timescale it says a mortgage application will take allows time for a valuation and any other 
information or evidence it required to be provided. As these are not things it has control over, 
it said it cant guarantee a completion date until it has received all the information requested. 
It also said that the stamp duty changes had created an unprecedented number of 
applications had meant that it hadnt been able to process applications as quickly as it would 
like. However, it highlighted that Miss Ts application had been received on 17 September 
and it had issued the mortgage offer on 12 November 2020, within the six to eight-week 
timescale it had given her. 
In relation to Miss T saying that Platform had delayed the application because it hadnt called 
her in July when she first approached it to talk about porting the product to a new mortgage, 
it said that it had tried twice the following day. The first time it had left her a voicemail asking 
her to call it back and the second time it hadnt been able to get through at all. Platform next 
tried to contact Miss T on 12 August 2020 and once it was clear what she wanted to do, the 
applications team called her back five days later. As for the payment of the application fee in 
September 2020, Platform confirmed that its card payment system wasnt working when she 
initially called to make the payment. It said it would call her back the following day, but 
Miss T called to make the payment before it had the opportunity. Platform didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Subsequently, Platform commented on the matter of the offer and the special condition. It 
said that when such a condition isnt complied with, it doesnt have a predetermined route to 
follow. As such, its agents werent able to give Miss T the answer she wanted. Platform also 
commented that it had given six months for the repairs to be completed (if any had been 
necessary) and it felt that was a reasonable amount of time. Had she accepted the offer and 
been unable to comply with the condition, it would have discussed with her what options 
were available at that point.  
Mr C and Miss T werent satisfied with Platforms response. When referring the complaint to 
this service, Miss T said that she didnt feel that she was given sufficient or adequate 
information to be able to accept the porting mortgage offer. She believed the level of service 
she received was lower than it should have been and that she wasnt treated as a person, 
but rather as another application in Platforms backlog.  Miss T believes that Platforms 
response to the complaint about the timescales her mortgage application took was 
misleading as she thinks the only reason the application was processed within Platforms 
service standards was because she made a complaint. She said that she was given 
indications during the process that the timescale of six to eight weeks might not be met. 
In addition, Miss T explained that the inadequacy of the offer as she saw it was due to the 
special condition it included, which required a damp inspection to be done and any works to 
be completed within six months of the mortgage completing. When Miss Ts solicitor had 
asked Platform how it could demonstrate that the condition had been met, and what the 
consequences of it not being met would be, Platform had told the solicitor that it couldnt say. 
When Platform was asked if it would allow alternative options if the work couldnt be done in 
the first six months of the mortgage, it said it didnt offer any alternatives. As such, Miss T 
said she didnt think she had enough information to accept the offer. She was unhappy that 
the initial complaint response issued by Platform didnt address this issue.
One of our investigators considered Mr C and Miss Ts complaint, but she didnt recommend 
that it be upheld. She didnt think the timescales for the application process were 
unreasonable. In relation to the special condition in the offer, she thought that Platform 
confirming that it couldnt give an answer to the questions, because it doesnt have a 
pre-determined route for non-compliance with such conditions, was reasonable. She didnt 
think Platform could have offered more information. The investigator acknowledged Miss Ts 
concerns about this condition and her having to make a commitment without knowing the 
cost of any such work or whether it could be completed within six months. However, she said 
that whether to take that risk was a decision Miss T had to make a decision on. As it was 
Miss Ts decision, Platform couldnt be held responsible for the mortgage not going ahead 
and the ERC not being refunded.
Mr C and Miss T didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They remained of the belief 
that Platform was too vague in its communication, both in relation to the application 
timescales and the special condition. Our investigator remained satisfied that Platform had communicated adequately with Miss T 
about the mortgage application. As such, she didnt change her conclusions. Mr C and 
Miss T requested that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss T has complained about two things  the communications about the timescales for the 
application and the lack of definitive answers to her questions about the special condition in 
the mortgage offer. I will deal with each separately. 
A lender will usually give a general timescale for a mortgage application to reach offer stage. 
However, it is just that, a general timescale. The actual time it takes will depend on many 
factors, including how quickly a consumer or their solicitor answers questions and provides 
information. In addition, there will be times when a lender is particularly busy, such as when 
there will be changes to stamp duty in the future. Such circumstances will mean that 
timescales change and there is nothing wrong with that happening as long as there is good 
reason for it. 
Miss T may have been given different information at different times, but that will be because 
Platform wanted to give her the most up to date information on likely timescales. As it 
happens, the mortgage offer was made within the original timescale given. As Miss T had a 
time limit on both transferring the interest rate product and in completing on her purchase, I 
can understand that she would be concerned about the possibility of the process taking 
longer than she was initially expecting. However, I can only uphold this part of the complaint 
if Platform did something wrong and I cant say that is the case. 
Miss T wasnt happy that Platform couldnt tell her what it would do if the damp inspection 
required works to be done, but they werent done in time.  I dont think Platform was 
purposely avoiding providing Miss T with information. There were so many potential 
variables involved in the questions that Platform couldnt have told her what it would do. 
Initially, whether a report would be commissioned wasnt known. If one was, whether any 
works would be needed wasnt known. If they were, what they were and the scope of them 
werent known. Without knowing the scope of any works needed, it wouldnt be possible to 
know whether the works could be completed within the timescale.  
Depending on the answers to the above questions, a lender would take different stances. 
Simple non-compliance with the special condition in not getting the report done, would be 
looked at very differently from a situation where a report was done and works commissioned, 
but the timescale had expired in the middle of the works. So I dont think Platform was 
purposely withholding information from Miss T. As our investigator said, accepting the 
mortgage offer did represent a risk to Miss T, as she was unaware, if repairs were needed, 
how much they would cost and whether they could be done in time. And, if they couldnt be 
done in time, she couldnt be sure what the consequences might be. Miss T decided that she 
wasnt willing to accept that risk. That was her decision and, as I havent found that Platform 
did anything wrong in this regard, I cant hold it responsible for the consequences of Miss Ts 
decision.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr C and Miss T, but I dont think that 
Platform made errors that mean it would be reasonable for the ERC to be refunded to them. 
Nor do I think Platform is responsible for Miss Ts application costs being wasted and so I 
cant ask it to reimburse those costs either.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C and Miss T to accept or reject my decision 
before 13 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman