DRN-3329124
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) provided him with credit he couldnt 
afford to repay.
What happened
Barclays approved a credit card for Mr H in January 2011. The limit was increased from 
£2,000 to £3,000 in November 2012 and again to £4,500 in September 2013. In April 2014 
Barclays approved a further limit increase to £6,000 and a final increase to £7,500 was 
applied in November 2014.
Mr H said that the credit wasnt affordable and should never have been provided but 
Barclays disagreed.
They said theyd completed reasonable and proportionate checks before each credit 
advance but when Mr Hs complaint was referred to this service our investigator thought that 
although information suggested the initial credit card application with a £2,000 limit had been 
affordable for Mr H, the further limit increases clearly werent and shouldnt have been 
advanced. She asked Barclays to refund the interest and charges on all credit advances 
above the initial £2,000 limit and they agreed. 
Mr H didnt think the investigator had gone far enough. He explained that he and his family 
had been put in financial difficulties over the last eight years and he wanted Barclays to 
compensate him for that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with our investigators opinion.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
I dont think the lending decision is in dispute anymore as Barclays have agreed with the 
investigators view that the limit increases provided after the initial approval of the card 
where irresponsible. 
Ill not therefore provide any further comments on those credit limit increases other than to 
say I would agree with the investigators findings.
I havent seen that Mr H disputed the investigators findings on the initial credit card approval 
but for completeness Ill consider that again here. 
Barclays had a responsibility to only provide credit that Mr H could sustainably repay. They 
needed to complete reasonable checks to satisfy themselves of that. The checks they 
completed were for them to decide and they could be in proportion to the amount being lent.
Barclays considered Mr Hs credit file and asked him about his income. I think the checks 
they completed were reasonable and proportionate. But that doesnt necessarily mean the 
decision to provide the credit was reasonable. So, Ive thought about what that information 
told them.
The credit file didnt show any signs that Mr H was in financial stress as there were no 
defaults, County Court judgments or missed payments. There was limited activity on Mr Hs 
account as there was only a mail order account and a communications account listed. 
Considering Mr H had told them he was earning £21,000 per year I think that would have 
suggested he would have been able to afford the credit.
So, I dont think the initial application was unaffordable, but I do agree with our investigator 
that subsequent credit limits werent.
In those circumstances this service usually tells a business to refund all interest and charges 
made on the credit that shouldnt have been provided. Thats what the investigator has done 
here.
Its unusual for this service to tell the business to provide any further compensation to the 
consumer as the purpose is to put the consumer back, as much as is possible, in the 
position they would have been in had the lending not been advanced. And here, I am not 
persuaded there are any reasons to deviate from that. Whilst Mr H has explained the lending 
put him in financial difficulty he did have the benefit of that capital and I dont therefore think 
it would be fair to ask Barclays to refund that, or make any further payment to compensate  
Mr H for the impact his use of that credit has had on him.
Putting things right
As I dont think Barclays should have approved the credit card limit increases above £2,000 I 
dont think its fair for them to charge any interest or charges on those limit increases. 
However, Mr H has had the benefit of all the money he spent on the account so I think he 
should pay that back. Therefore, Barclays should:
Rework the account to ensure that from November 2012 interest and charges are 
only made on the first £2,000 outstanding - to reflect the fact that no further credit 
limit increases should have been provided.
If an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made Barclays 
should contact Mr H to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this.
If no outstanding balance remains, any adverse information should be removed from 
Mr Hs credit file.
AND
If the refund means theres no remaining balance, any extra should be treated
as overpayments and returned to Mr H.
ANDPay 8% simple interest per year on any overpayments from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement.
 If HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take tax from this interest. Barclays must
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman