DRN-3846381
The complaint
Mr G complains about Lloyds Bank PLCs move towards issuing paperless statements. Mr G 
also complains about the service provided by Lloyds when he contacted it. 
What happened
On 18 March 2022 Lloyds sent Mr G a letter giving details about changes to its terms and 
conditions, including its move towards paperless statements. Mr Gs told us he didnt receive 
the letter until 1 April 2022. 
Mr G went on to contact Lloyds and has told us he was advised that the only way to continue 
to receive paper statements was to cancel online banking. The following day Mr G received 
a text message that said a member of the complaints team would call him but none was 
received. Mr G followed up with Lloyds and was told he could continue to receive paper 
statements once the change took effect. 
Mr Gs told us he didnt receive Lloyds response to his complaint for over a week. The final 
response confirmed Lloyds intention to move its customers towards paperless statements 
and said its systems were using prompts for that purpose. 
Lloyds complaint handler went on to call Mr G a couple of weeks later and sent a further 
final response. Lloyds apologised for the service Mr G received and paid him £25 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and £12 for call costs. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Gs complaint. They thought Lloyds had dealt 
with it fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr G asked to appeal and said the 
settlement didnt reflect the time hed taken contact Lloyds or the service provided and 
distress caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr G for the level hes given in his submissions. Im aware Ive summarised 
the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the parties involved. No discourtesy 
is intended by my approach which reflects the informal nature of this service. I want to 
ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. Im satisfied I dont need to 
comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if I dont comment on 
something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive focused on what I think 
are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate under. 
I understand Mr G feels bullied by the way Lloyds has chosen to move towards paperless 
statements. Mr Gs told us he feels the online system is unfairly designed push customers to 
receiving paperless statements. But Lloyds has advised its decision to move towards 
paperless statements is a business decision. And Lloyds is free to decide how its online 
system works including how to select correspondence types. Whilst I understand Mr G is 
concerned by a requirement to actively select paper statements, I havent been persuaded 
Lloyds has treated him unfairly in its approach. 
Mr Gs told us there was a delay in receiving Lloyds letter which meant he didnt get the full 
60 days notice. Lloyds has provided systems information that shows it sent Mr G the letter 
on 18 March 2022 which fulfils the notice period. I appreciate there was a delay in the letter 
being received, but Im satisfied it was sent by Lloyds as claimed.
I agree that sending Mr G a message to say a complaint handler would call without following 
up caused him inconvenience and meant he had to call Lloyds back. In addition, Mr G 
doesnt appear to have been given the correct information during a call with Lloyds and was 
left with the impression hed have to cancel online banking in order to continue to receive 
paper statements. I agree with Mr G that the service he received shouldve been better at 
times. Lloyds has paid Mr G £25 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Ive read and considered everything Mr Gs told us about his complaint and how it impacted 
him. In my view the £25 Lloyds has already paid fairly reflects the level of trouble and upset 
caused to Mr G. Whilst I agree Lloyds couldve handled Mr Gs enquires and complaint more 
smoothly, the correct position in terms of paper statements was provided. And Lloyds paid a 
further £12 to cover Mr Gs costs. In my view, Lloyds has already paid a settlement that is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. As a result, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that Lloyds has already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman