DRN-3221203
The complaint
Mr D has complained that he was mis-sold a home insurance policy by One Call Insurance 
Services Limited (One Call).
What happened
Mr D wanted to buy a home insurance policy. He got quotes on a price comparison website 
and was then transferred to One Calls website to complete the purchase. This was for a 
buildings and contents policy via an insurer A and free extended accidental damage cover 
under a standalone policy provided by One Call. A while later, Mr D contacted the insurer, A, 
to make a claim for accidental damage. However, A declined the claim because Mr D didnt 
have its extended accidental damage cover.
Mr D complained to One Call.  When One Call replied it said its accidental damage cover 
was provided as separate cover to the buildings and contents insurance policy and Mr D had 
been sent separate documentation to show the cover in place. It said Mr D later tried to 
make an accidental damage claim with the insurer A, and this was declined, but the policy 
documents had shown the underwriter for the extended accidental damage cover. One Call 
agreed an endorsement added to the policy could have been clearer and offered £150 
compensation because of the endorsement wording and that Mr D had issues accessing the 
documents in his account.
Mr D complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the 
policy documents explained that the extended accidental damage cover was provided by 
One Call, not by insurer A.
As Mr D didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the documents available to Mr D during the sales process. This included a 
policy booklet for the One Call extended accidental damage policy and the home insurance 
policy booklet for the cover provided by insurer A. Ive looked at insurer As policy booklet 
and the wording under the Contents part of the policy. The wording is similar under the 
Buildings section. This included a section called Optional add-ons to your home contents 
policy and listed Section D: Accidental damage to your contents and described the cover. 
The booklet then said Youre only covered under this section of the policy if it says so on 
your policy schedule, which was sent to you when you bought this insurance. 
So, Ive looked at the policy schedule for insurer As policy. For both buildings and contents, 
it described the cover as Standard Cover and listed the maximum claim limit. Immediately 
below that it said which parts of the policy booklet applied for standard cover. There was 
also a separate line that said which parts of the policy booklet were relevant if the policy 
included Standard cover and accidental damage cover. So, based on what Ive seen, the 
schedule explained the level of cover and described this as Standard cover and the parts 
of the policy that applied. But the schedule didnt say it included accidental damage cover 
under Section D of the policy booklet, which was insurer As extended accidental damage 
cover.
Im also aware that One Call provided a welcome letter that referred to the cover provided. 
So, Ive read what that said. At the top of the letter, it said the Policy provider was insurer 
A. On the first page, there is a section headed Additional Services, which said These 
products are provided by a single insurer and then listed five services, such as legal 
cover and home emergency cover, both of which it said were free. It also said Accidental 
Damage Cover Included: Yes. On the next page the letter summarised why the policy had 
been taken out with insurer A, which included it providing Buildings and Contents cover. This 
didnt include a reference to insurer A providing accidental damage cover. The letter then 
explained that insurer A didnt provide the legal cover of home emergency cover and that 
these were provided through another single insurer. There was then a section headed 
Accidental Damage that said Standard cover was provided by insurer A and Extended 
cover was provided by One Call policy.
Ive looked at insurer As policy booklet to see what standard accidental damage cover it 
provided. This showed there was standard cover listed under the standard contents cover for 
accidental damage to home entertainment equipment, garden cover, underground pipes, 
drains and cables, glass, toilets and other fittings and broken glass and ceramics.
One Call also provided Mr D with a policy booklet for its accidental damage cover, which 
was clearly branded as a One Call policy. One Call also described its accidental damage 
cover in a separate letter, which I note highlighted that the policy Excludes claims caused 
by any third party who is not a resident of the property. It is my understanding that Mr Ds 
declined claim was for damage caused by a third party.
So, Ive thought about all of the above. The policy documents explained the cover provided, 
including that the extended accidental damage cover was through One Call and that insurer 
A provided standard cover only. From what Ive seen Mr D was also provided with the 
relevant policy documents as part of the sale so that he could make a decision about 
whether the policy was appropriate for his needs and this included full details of the cover 
through insurer A and the extended accidental damage cover and its exclusions. Im aware 
that Mr D then had a claim for accidental damage declined by insurer A but I dont think that 
means he was mis-sold the policy. So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this 
complaint or require One Call to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman