DRN-3140590
The complaint
Ms O has complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) declined
her claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Os car was stolen in June 2020. She filed a police report and contacted Watford to make
a claim on her motor insurance which Watford declined. Watford said that Ms O had
misrepresented the value of the vehicle when she took out her insurance and stated that it
doesnt insure vehicles valued over £50,000. It considered that, at the date Ms O took out
her policy in July 2019, the car was worth over £55,000 bearing in mind that the purchase
price a year earlier had been over £80,000.
Ms O had taken out the policy through a price comparison site in July 2019. During the
online application process, Ms O was asked what is the cars estimated market value?
Ms O said that once shed completed details of the car, this box was auto-populated with an
amount of £40,000 and she didnt see a reason to query this. Ms Os insurance broker then
sent Ms O some welcome documents and a statement of fact which detailed the cars value
as £40,000.
Ms O has complained to this service. She considers that its unfair that she now owes a
substantial amount on the finance agreement for a car that has been stolen, as Watford has
refused to pay the claim. She had outstanding finance of around £55,000 at the time of the
claim, however she was looking to Watford to pay the current market value for the car and
not the whole of the amount outstanding.
The services investigator looked into the matter and concluded that Watford had not acted
fairly and reasonably in declining Ms Os claim. The investigator took the view that whilst the
comparison site asked the question are these details correct?, Ms O would have needed to
click through to the change details section to see the auto-generated valuation and that it
wouldnt have been reasonable for her to have doubted the accuracy of the figure that was
generated.
As to the proposal form issued by Watford asking Ms O to check the details were correct, the
investigator considered that this wasnt particularly prominent and there was no explanatory
literature to make it clear that Watford didnt cover vehicles valued at over £50,000. The 
investigator concluded that the inclusion of the value on that document wasnt
enough to say that Ms O was careless in providing information to obtain her insurance.
Watford was not satisfied with this outcome and the matter has therefore been referred to
me to look at it afresh and to make a decision in my role as Ombudsman.
In September 2021, I issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I 
was not minded to uphold Ms Os complaint as follows; -
Its my role to consider whether Watford acted fairly and reasonably in the light of the law
and any relevant policy terms in declining Ms Os claim. In all the circumstances, Ive
provisionally concluded that I cannot say that Watford has acted unfairly or unreasonably in
declining Ms Os claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant law is found in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act
2012 (CIDRA). It says that its the duty of the consumer to take reasonable care not to
make a misrepresentation to the insurer. The standard of care is that of a reasonable
consumer
Under the Act, if a consumer fails to take care in giving or confirming information, the insurer
then has certain remedies where the misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a
qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to
show it would have offered the policy on different terms or indeed not at all if the consumer
hadnt made the misrepresentation.
Finally, CIDRA also sets out considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
any qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate, reckless, or careless.
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at
least offered the policy on different terms, its entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it wouldnt
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation.
First of all, I need to establish if there has been any misrepresentation. In other words, did
the confirmation by Ms O of a valuation of £40,000 amount to a misrepresentation?
Ive considered all the available information regarding the likely value of the car at the date
Ms O took out her insurance policy. I have also obtained valuations from three industry trade
valuation guides to establish an estimated market value. The lowest as at August 2019 was
£47,500, the middle figure £55,250 and the highest £66,39. Although there is a large range,
all figures are well above the figure of £40,000. I therefore consider that £40,000
misrepresented the value and that a realistic valuation exceeded £50,000.
Ms O states that the figure of £40,000 was auto-populated by the price comparison system.
She said that, despite having bought the car for considerably more than £40,000, she had no 
reason to think that the valuation given at that time was incorrect and assumed that the
figure was about right. She felt that its generally accepted that the current market value of a
used car is not the same as what the car was originally financed for, as cars depreciate in
value. She also stated that the £55,000 owed to the finance company on the car didnt equal
the current market value.
Watford states that there was a large disparity between the purchase price of the car in July
2018 (£82,674) and the valuation which Ms O says was given by the price comparison site in
July 2019 (£40,000).
With regard to the auto-fill feature on the comparison website, Watford states that it had
repeated the exercise Ms O carried out. It states that even though it was over a year since
Ms O obtained her quote on this website, the value produced (£44,545) was still several
thousand pounds over £40,000. It has also made the point that its unlikely in the extreme
that the system would produce an exact round figure of £40,000 and stated that none of the
checks they carried out resulted in round figures of this nature and that its more likely that
the figure was manually changed by Ms O. In addition, it produced a trade guide valuation of
a comparable vehicle for the relevant time of £54,500.
Ive considered what Ms O says. I accept its possible the £40,000 figure was autopopulated. In all the circumstances however, my provisional conclusion on the evidence is
that the figure of £40,000 isnt likely to have been an auto populated entry. I consider it
unlikely that a trade valuation guide would have given the exact value of a car as £40,000
where, twelve months later, following usage for several thousand additional miles, it
produced a significantly higher value. In addition, having checked trade guides for the
relevant dates, none of those provided a valuation as low as £40,000. They were all
significantly higher.
Secondly, as to whether that misrepresentation was reckless, deliberate or careless, Watford
accepts that Ms O did not act in a reckless or deliberate way. Watford has stated however
that Ms M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. It considers she
was careless when she completed her application through the price comparison website and
entered the figure of £40,000, and also in reviewing her policy documents.
I am of the provisional view that the question asked by the price comparison site are these
details correct? was clear. I also think that, on the balance of probabilities, its more likely
than not that Ms O manually included the figure of £40,000 to obtain her quote. Even if Ms O
hadnt manually completed the figure of £40,000 however, the policy documents sent by
Watford following purchase of her policy also showed this figure. This would have alerted a
reasonable consumer that a car purchased twelve months earlier had more than halved in
value. Im satisfied that this should have prompted a reasonable consumer to check that
value. Its therefore my provisional conclusion that Ms O made a careless misrepresentation.
Finally, Im also satisfied on a provisional basis that Watford would not have offered the
policy on any terms if a realistic valuation of over £50,000 had been disclosed. It doesnt
insure vehicles above this value.
This means that in all the circumstances, I consider, unless persuaded otherwise, that there
was a qualifying misrepresentation under the terms of CIDRA and that the usual remedies 
applied so that Watford was entitled to act in the way it has. I cannot therefore say that
Watford was acting unfairly or unreasonably in declining her claim.
I know that this will come as a great disappointment to Ms O and I appreciate the distress
and anxiety that she will have suffered as a result of the theft, however in all the
circumstances, I provisionally conclude that this is a fair and reasonable outcome in all the 
circumstances.
In my provisional decision, I also asked both Watford and Ms O if they had any further 
comments or evidence which they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Watford had nothing to add following receipt of my provisional decision. Ms O provided 
further comments as follows however.
Ms O has stated that she never meant to misrepresent the value of her car as it was most 
definitely not in her best interest to do so and devaluing her car would be a detriment to 
herself. She said that she went along with the auto-populated figure and if shed been fully 
aware of the true value of the car, she wouldnt have agreed to going ahead with that figure. 
Nor would she have gone ahead to insure with a company that didnt honour their insurance 
commitments for cars valued above £50,000. Ms O said that she hadnt realised that she needed to pay attention to the actual value of her 
car as she always went along with what was provided and selected the best insurance for 
herself at the time. Ms O said that she was in a dire financial situation due to what had 
happened. She was hoping that Watford would at least pay out the cars value (rather than 
what she owed under her finance agreement).
Ms O said that one of the main reasons why she took out insurance was to cover
unexpected incidents such as this. She said that she wasnt a car expert and would have 
expected her insurers to look further into the information provided if it was not as they were 
expecting, to iron out any discrepancies. She said she had known some insurers to call for 
further due diligence checks when an insurance policy was taken out online, to ensure both 
parties interests were fairly represented. 
Finally, Ms O said that in this instance, her money was taken by Watford and the one time 
she needed its assistance, she was told that her insurance wasnt valid. She said she had 
never previously made a claim in her life and that she always does the right thing. She felt 
that there was no-one else fighting her corner and she was hoping to achieve a middle 
ground of some kind.
Ive very carefully considered all that Mr O has said. I must say that I have considerable 
sympathy for the position in which Ms O now finds herself. Unfortunately, although her 
concerns have been eloquently expressed and are clearly heart-felt, no further evidence or 
information has been presented which alters the position.
Ive accepted that its possible that the £40,000 was auto-populated, however there remains 
a duty upon the policyholder to carefully check the details in her policy documents and to 
inform their insurers of any clear errors. The value was understated to such an extent here, 
that even a person who was not an expert in these matters should have realised that it was 
wrong. Unfortunately, the position remains that; This would have alerted a reasonable 
consumer that a car purchased twelve months earlier had more than halved in value. Im 
satisfied that this should have prompted a reasonable consumer to check that value. Its 
therefore my provisional conclusion that Ms O made a careless misrepresentation. 
In all the circumstances, Ive concluded that the provisional decision provides a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Os complaint against Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman