DRN-3874937
The complaint
Mr W, on behalf of Mrs M, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc have hindered payments 
leaving Mrs Ms account by repeatedly asking unnecessary questions.
 
What happened
Mr W has Power of Attorney over Mrs Ms financial affairs, and he has raised this complaint 
on her behalf. 
Mr W set up a series of transactions to leave Mrs Ms account between 24 April and 1 May 
2022. Each transaction was for £25,000, apart from the 1 May transaction which was due to 
be for £5,000. The transactions were going to an account in Mr Ws name with a third-party 
bank. Mr W states this is because the third-party bank had a better rate of interest for       
Mrs Ms money. 
The payments on 24, 25, and 26 April were sent with no issues. However, the payment on 
27 April was flagged for additional fraud checks. Mr W felt the fraud check questions were 
intrusive and personal and he was reluctant to answer all of them. Eventually he did and he 
was told the payment was authorised. He then spoke with a manager who credited Mrs Ms 
account with £100 compensation for the customer service received. 
The following day, Mr W was again asked to contact HSBC due to a payment on the account 
flagging as possibly fraudulent. He went into branch for assistance and although the branch 
staff spoke with the fraud team, the issue could not be resolved at that time as Mr W was 
unwilling to answer the fraud questions. When Mr W called back, he found that the previous 
days payment had not been authorised and instead had been reversed. Mr W answered the 
fraud questions for the payment due to leave on 28 April. However, the payment that was 
due to leave on 27 April could not be actioned as the daily transaction limit on the account 
had been reached. 
Mr W spoke to a manager on 28 April and they explained they would try and circumvent the 
fraud system for the future payments that were due to leave the account but there was no 
guarantee this would be successful. Despite this, the payment that was due to leave on 29 
April was flagged as possibly fraudulent by the system and Mr W was asked to contact 
HSBC to verify the payment. Mr W realised that the online banking facility for Mrs Ms 
account had been suspended. The call handler explained that if a payment is blocked, this 
causes the online banking on an account to be suspended. Because of this, Mr W answered 
the fraud questions for the payment on 29 April meaning the payment was authorised and 
the online banking was reinstated.
Mr W cancelled the transactions due to leave on 30 April and 1 May as he did not want to 
have to deal with the fraud questions that may occur. He raised a complaint about the fraud 
process and the customer service he received throughout. HSBC issued a final response 
explaining that the payment on 27 April was reversed and not authorised, meaning the 
online banking was suspended, which was an error. And they said that it appeared a 
vulnerability marker had been placed on Mrs Ms account which led to the additional checks 
on the payments. They paid Mrs M a further £250, and in later final response letters, offered 
a further £150. This would bring the total compensation for the issues Mr W faced to £500. 
Mr W referred the complaint to our service. He felt the fraud checks were excessive and took 
far too long, especially as the payments were identical each day. He also felt the call 
handlers had made errors throughout the process which was frustrating and caused him 
inconvenience. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and felt that HSBC were following strict regulatory 
guidelines when doing fraud checks on the transactions and that the call handlers tried to 
deal with Mr Ws requests for a manager as best they could. He acknowledged that mistakes 
had been made with the transfer on 27 April not being authorised, the managers notes not 
being added to the file and the account being blocked. Ultimately, they felt the compensation 
already paid and the further compensation offered was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr W disagreed with this; as an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why in 
more detail. 
Fraud checks
Ill firstly deal with the fraud checks which Mr W feels were largely unnecessary and took too 
long. I can see that the first three scheduled payments of £25,000 left Mrs Ms account on 
24, 25 and 26 April with no issues. However, the fourth payment scheduled to leave the 
account on 27 April was flagged by HSBCs system as potentially fraudulent. 
Considering that there had been three consecutive large payments that were seemingly 
beginning to drain the account, following a large credit from a savings account, I think it was 
reasonable that this payment flagged as potentially suspicious. HSBC has a duty to exercise 
reasonable skill and care in carrying out Mr Ws instructions on behalf of Mrs M. As a result, 
HSBC is under a duty to refrain from making a payment if it has reasonable grounds for 
believing, for example, that the instruction relates to fraud or any other criminal act. Given 
HSBCs obligations to protect its customers from potential fraud or scams, it can be 
expected to make reasonable enquiries including  but not limited to  the circumstances 
surrounding the payment instruction, in this case a large transfer. 
So, I think it was reasonable that HSBC contacted Mr W and asked further questions 
surrounding the payment and then read a script designed to educate and warn of potential 
scams. I appreciate that the following two payments which also flagged were similar to the 
first, so Mr W feels he should not have been asked additional questions about them. 
However, similar transactions dont necessarily mean there is not possible fraud occurring.  
And while frustrating for Mr W, I dont think its unreasonable that HSBC took further action 
to satisfy themselves that each payment was legitimate. 
HSBC has said that the series of payments were flagged because a vulnerability marker was 
placed on the account and its unclear if they think this was placed in error. Regardless, as 
explained above, I dont think the checks were unreasonable on the whole, so I dont think 
HSBC made an error when flagging the payments. Mr W has said that each check took over 45 minutes which was too long. And I would agree 
that this is quite excessive for what should be a relatively straightforward fraud check. Ive 
listened to all of the telephone calls in question between 27 and 29 of April. Having done so, 
I think that, while some of the call handlers made some errors, Mr W has also made the 
situation more difficult and caused delays in the payments being authorised. 
I say this because Mr W repeatedly refused to answer the fraud check questions and when 
he did answer, he often gave vague or limited information in response to them. Once he did 
go through all the fraud questions, he repeatedly interrupted the call handler while they tried 
to read through the scam warnings that they are required to go through. On a number of 
occasions during different phone calls, Mr W raised his voice and swore at the call handlers 
and while I can understand that Mr W was frustrated at the process, I think this had an effect 
on the call handlers and made them nervous  which made the whole situation more difficult 
and tense. 
I also note that Mr W repeatedly asked to speak to a manager on a few of the phone calls, 
which is understandable. However, when it was explained that one could not immediately 
come to the phone but they would request a call back, Mr W refused to end the phone call 
until he had spoken with a manager. And this again made the process last longer than was 
necessary. I think that, on balance, had Mr W clearly answered the fraud questions and 
allowed the call handlers to read all the necessary information without interruptions, the 
process likely would not have lasted longer than ten minutes. So, I dont think HSBC have 
caused the delays Mr W has highlighted during the fraud checks.  
Errors by HSBC
It is not in dispute that HSBC made a number of errors which made the whole process 
confusing and more frustrating for Mr W. The transaction that was scheduled for 27 April  
should have been actioned but was instead reversed, which also placed a block on Mrs Ms 
online banking facility. I also think that one of the call handlers was asking questions about 
Mr Ws own account instead of Mrs Ms when they were trying to verify Mr W for security 
purposes, which understandably made Mr W lose trust in the call handler. And the phone 
lines were also bad on occasion making it difficult for both parties to communicate 
effectively. 
The result of these errors is that one of the £25,000 payments did not leave the account as 
scheduled and Mr W had to unblock the online banking, which he was able to do shortly 
after realising it was blocked. 
It should be noted that as Mrs M is the account holder, she is the party with a relationship to 
HSBC and is the eligible complainant on this case. Therefore, it is her distress and 
inconvenience that we have to take into consideration when thinking about compensation. I 
appreciate Mr W feels this complaint should be about the service he has received, but the 
rules we have to follow are clear about who is the eligible complainant on the account and 
who we can award compensation to. 
Mr W has made it clear that he has dealt with this issue from the start and Mrs M has not 
had any involvement at all. Because of this, it is difficult for me to agree that Mrs M has been 
distressed or inconvenienced by the errors HSBC has made. While I appreciate Mr W has 
been, he is not the account holder and therefore not the eligible complainant. So, even 
though he had Power of Attorney over Mrs Ms financial affairs I cannot take his distress and 
inconvenience into consideration. HSBC has already awarded £350 compensation into Mrs Ms account and has made the 
decision to offer a further £150 in later final response letters. This is therefore more than I 
would have recommended in the circumstances. Mr W should contact HSBC directly if he 
would like to accept the offer on behalf of Mrs M. 
My final decision
I do not think HSBC UK Bank Plc needs to do anything further to settle the complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W on behalf of 
Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman