DRN-3249367
The complaint
Mr H says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to him. He 
has requested that the interest and late payment charges he paid on the account he had be 
refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account provided by J D Williams to Mr H. 
The account was opened in July 2018 with Mr H being given an initial credit limit of £125. 
This limit was increased 4 times until it reached £900 in January 2019. 
Mr H says hes unhappy that J D Williams continued to increase his credit limit on the 
account when he was in financial difficulties.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Hs complaint and thought that J D Williams ought to 
have realised that Mr H wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit on the 
account by the time it offered Mr H the increased credit limit in January 2019. J D Williams 
has disagreed with what they said, saying that it had no reason to think that Mr H was 
experiencing financial difficulties. The complaint has therefore been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought J D Williams shouldnt have 
provided Mr H with any additional credit on 1st January 2019 when the credit limit was 
increased to £900. J D Williams didnt agree with what our adjudicator said. It said the 
credit limits it set were affordable for Mr H and there were no missed or late payments. 
Nonetheless Ive also looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history with 
Mr H, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which J D Williams should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that 
would mean J D Williams should have realised that it shouldnt have further increased 
Mr Hs credit limits. 
Having done so, Im not sure there was such a point. In saying that I have considered 
that the account had been running for less than six months, that there were no missed or 
late payments and that four of the five payments made were in excess of the minimum 
payment. 
Mr H says that J D Williams should not have increased his credit limits, given that he was 
in financial difficulties before the account was opened and throughout the time it was 
running. Mr H has mentioned the large number of credit limit increases in several months 
only and that whilst he did not exceed any of them, he often allowed the credit balance to 
near the new credit limit. 
Mr H has been able to provide us with copies of his bank statements covering the period 
he had the account. But given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, based on the 
information Mr H and J D Williams has given, I nevertheless think that a point was 
reached by 1 January 2019, when J D Williams increased Mr Hs total credit limit to £900, 
over seven times the original credit over less than six months, which ought to have 
prompted J D Williams to realise further credit as likely to be unaffordable or otherwise 
harmful to Mr H. I say this because proportionate affordability checks would have likely 
shown J D Williams that Mr H was by that time having difficulty managing his money. Ive 
seen that during the time he had these accounts and up to this point, Mr H had been 
increasingly incurring daily overdraft fees each month and that he had a number of other 
debts including short term loans. From the information we have about his other existing 
commitments, it appears he was also showing some signs of payment difficulty (including 
having a number of loans in arrears) as well as a recent increase in the amount of credit 
commitments he had. I think its likely J D Williams would have seen this too in the credit 
checks it completed at the time. That means he was likely unable to reduce the increasing 
debt on the account whilst at the same time having to meet his daily living expenses and 
other credit commitments. 
So, I think that proportionate checks would likely have shown J D Williams that Mr H was 
in difficulty with managing his account alongside his other debts and day-to-day living 
expenses. I also think there was a significant risk that further increases to his credit limits 
could have led to his indebtedness increasing unsustainably, such that he had no funds 
available to meet his debts and regular outgoings. It follows that I think that Mr H lost out because J D Williams provided him with further credit 
from 1 January 2019 onwards. In my view, J D Williams actions unfairly prolonged Mr Hs 
indebtedness by allowing him to use credit he couldnt afford over an extended period of 
time and the interest being added would only have the effect of putting him into further debt. 
It follows that J D Williams should put things right.
Putting things right  what J D Williams needs to do
Rework Mr Hs account to ensure that from 1 January 2019 onwards interest is 
only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £600, including any buy 
now pay later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the 
fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. All late 
payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made J D Williams should contact Mr H to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for these accounts. Once Mr H has repaid the outstanding 
balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file 
from 1 January 2019 onwards for each account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr H, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments 
from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. J D 
Williams should also remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file from 
1 January 2019 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. J D 
Williams must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Hs complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman