DRN-2973943
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the service provided by the National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU) in administering and responding about his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L took out a motor insurance cover with the NFU in April 2020. Mr L was stopped by the 
police in September 2020 and was issued with a note to produce his insurance documents 
within seven days. His insurance document confirmed that the registration number on his 
documents was incorrect as two digits had been recorded the wrong way round. 
Mr L contacted NFU to confirm the position and it acknowledged the mistake on the policy. 
NFU agreed to provide Mr L with a cover note confirming the correct details and Mr L sent 
this to the police.
In the event, Mr L received a court summons for driving without insurance. He contacted 
NFU at the end of October 2020 to say that the cover note hadnt provided sufficient 
evidence for the police. Mr L explained to NFU what the police required and NFU sent 
another email in response, which again wasnt sufficient evidence for the police. Mr Ls 
solicitor then drafted a letter which he considered, if sent by NFU, would satisfy the police 
and CPS requirements. Mr L forwarded this draft to NFU which then sent a letter in these 
terms to be passed to the police. The police then withdrew the proceedings following the 
solicitors intervention.
Mr L raised a complaint with NFU. NFU Mutual didnt uphold the complaint and said it had 
acted proactively when required and in a timely manner. Mr L remained unhappy and 
complained to this service. He felt that he had incurred the solicitors fees unnecessarily and 
wanted to be compensated also for his time and trouble in dealing with the matter.
The services investigator thought that NFU had acted fairly and reasonably. She considered 
that NFU had issued its initial standard letter to Mr L in a timely manner. Mr Ls concerns as 
to the adequacy of the letter hadnt been raised with NFU until late October 2020. The 
investigator considered that the second, more detailed letter, was also produced promptly. 
The investigator concluded that NFU had acted proactively when required. 
Mr L remains unhappy with this outcome. His solicitor considers that there have been 
numerous errors on the part of NFU which have caused Mr L detriment. The matter has 
therefore been referred to me to consider it afresh in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my role to consider the evidence and timeline of events to decide whether or not the NFU 
actions in setting up the insurance policy and then in responding to Mr L and his solicitor 
were fair and reasonable. Ive concluded that they were and Ill explain why.
Mr L complained firstly because he considered that NFU had recorded the registration 
number of the vehicle incorrectly. Secondly, he said that the two initial letters written by NFU 
provided insufficient proof to the police that the vehicle was insured at the time. He also said 
that NFU failed to respond to his solicitors emails and calls
Ive looked at the insurance documents issued to Mr L at the inception of his policy. The 
policy documents make it clear; As this is a non advised policy, we havent provided you 
with a recommendation, so please read the documents carefully to make sure the details are 
right and the cover meets your needs.
The following statement also appears in the documents under the heading Important 
Information; Your Car Insurance cover is based on information you have given us, as 
shown in this Statement of Insurance and your Insurance Schedule. Please check that this 
information is correct, as failure to disclose accurate information could invalidate your 
insurance or result in a claim not being paid. If any details are wrong or missing please 
contact uswithin the next seven days.
Mr Ls solicitor noted NFU's system for insuring a new vehicle. In particular, he noted that if 
the registration number doesn't pull through the computer system, then the NFU would ask 
a customer to double-check details. He considered that the NFU were therefore on notice 
that the number it had tried to register was incorrect. He said that there was a high duty on 
NFU to bring the matter to the immediate attention of Mr L and to ask him to provide details 
of the correct number and not simply to ask him to check the documents.
NFU confirmed that Mr L had taken out a policy in April 2020 on the basis of a telephone 
call. It then sent the policy documents to Mr L. Unfortunately, due to the covid pandemic, 
NFU staff were working from home and I have not therefore had access to the relevant 
telephone recording.
I have carefully considered the points made by Mr Ls solicitor however in relation to the 
NFUs usual process when a vehicle registration number doesnt pull through. It will then 
carry out a manual search and continue with the quote. Despite this account of the usual 
process, as there is no telephone record, it is not now possible to say with certainty what 
happened. The evidence which is available doesnt show how or at what stage the error in 
recording the registration number occurred in.
Mr L has accepted that it isnt possible to say whether the error in relation to the registration 
number was made by the NFU or by Mr L. I do consider that it was Mr Ls responsibility 
however to check the policy documents when they arrived on the basis of the clear wording 
in the policy documents. Im satisfied therefore that Mr L was responsible for ensuring the 
policy details were correct and up-to-date. I cant say that NFU were responsible for the 
incorrect vehicle registration number being recorded in the policy. I cant therefore say that 
NFU has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this respect.
I have also considered whether NFU acted fairly and reasonably in responding to Mr L. I 
note that it corrected the registration number when it was informed by Mr L of the issue in 
September 2020. It also provided a cover note to confirm its stance for Mr L to provide to the 
police and/or CPS. Im satisfied that it would have had no reason to consider that this was 
insufficient to prevent a summons from being issued against Mr L. Its at the point of 
receiving a summons that Mr L instructed his solicitor.Ive reviewed the case notes available for the end of October and beginning of November 
2020. From this evidence, Im satisfied that NFU acted to assist Mr L by providing another 
letter to be passed on to the police and/or CPS. It had no reason to consider that this was 
insufficient to halt proceedings.
I consider that NFU also acted promptly and further assisted Mr L when asked to take on 
board suggestions offered by his solicitor for inclusion in another letter. Im satisfied 
therefore that NFU again acted promptly to assist Mr L. I cant say that it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in provision of this assistance.
In conclusion, I cannot say that NFU was responsible for any action or omission which led to 
Mr L being stopped by the police, receiving a summons and then being subject to potential 
court action. I dont require NFU to do anything else in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman