DRN-3789185
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Thomas Heald Ltd trading as A F H Wealth Management (AFH) 
mis-sold insurance policies by wrongly completing applications on his behalf.
What happened
Mr C took out a flexible protection plan and family income insurance through AFH in 2010. 
AFH completed the application forms on his behalf. In 2021 Mr C had cause to make a 
claim. The insurer declined the claim, voided the policies and refunded the premiums as the 
medical questions hadnt been answered correctly. Mr C understood why the insurer had 
done this but remained very unhappy with AFH with whom he had taken out the policies in 
the first place.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She found that Mr C had 
been sent the completed forms to check and sign, which he had done. Mr C appealed. He  
said that he had trusted the financial adviser.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and although I understand Mr Cs strength of feeling I dont uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
AFH recommended Mr C should take out the policies and was obliged to ensure the policy 
was suitable for him. The regulators Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 
rule 6.1(5) said that AFH needed to ensure that Mr C was given appropriate information 
about the policy in good time and in comprehensible form so that he could make an informed 
decision about the arrangements proposed. It also needed to communicate information to Mr 
C in a way which was clear, fair and not misleading.
There is nothing before me to suggest that AFH failed in its regulatory duties to Mr C. 
Following the meeting with the financial adviser Mr C was sent forms to sign  I understand 
that he did so although I have only seen the signed application form for the family income 
assurance. Im satisfied though that without a signed form the flexible protection plan 
wouldnt have been set up. Mr C therefore declared that the details contained in the 
applications were accurate. 
It isnt in dispute that the answers to the medical questions were incorrect in that no 
disclosures were made in response to the medical questions asked, and for this reason the 
insurer declined Mr Cs claim and returned his premiums. I understand how disappointing 
this was for Mr C.
I accept that Mr C trusted the adviser, but there is no evidence that he made medical 
disclosures for the adviser to add to the form. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the 
wider surrounding circumstances. 
The sale was in 2010 but the documentation from the time doesnt show that disclosures 
were made in answer to questions in the medical details section  and Mr C hasnt said he 
made any. Other sections of the form including personal details, occupation, doctor have all 
been completed in full. The adviser no longer works at AFH however AFH confirms there is 
no evidence on the file to suggest that the correct procedures werent followed. It says that it 
is reasonable to assume that the importance of answering the medical questions accurately 
would have been highlighted to Mr C. Having seen the file, I find it more likely than not that 
the procedure was followed.
Mr C signed the application form Ive seen confirming that the information contained therein 
was correct. The form clearly warned Please be aware that we may not pay a claim and 
cancel the plan if you do not answer the questions in the application truthfully and 
accurately. The insurer also sent Mr C the application forms to check, he would again have 
had the opportunity to say that the medical details were incomplete. 
In all the circumstances, I dont uphold his complaint. I am unable to find on the evidence 
before me that AFH is responsible for the incorrect answers given to the medical questions 
or that it mis-sold the policies to Mr C. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman