DRN-2093363
The complaint
Mr O complains, via his representative, C, about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to 
avoid his policy and not deal with his claim for damage to his property under his landlords 
insurance policy.
What happened
References to Mr O include his representative. Mr O owns property which he rents out. He 
took out landlords insurance with Ageas in August 2018. Mr O said his property suffered 
damage from an escape of water two days later and he made a claim for the damage about 
a month later. 
Mr O told Ageas the property was unoccupied since 31 July 2018. Ageas said that Mr O 
hadnt declared this when he arranged the insurance on 15 August 2018. Ageas wrote to Mr 
O to say that had they been aware of the unoccupancy, they wouldnt have accepted the 
risk. And consequently, they were avoiding the policy from inception, and not considering the 
claim. Ageas said it would refund Mr Os premiums. 
Mr O said this was incorrect as the property was between tenancies when the damage 
occurred and had actually been occupied by himself during that period. Mr O said the 
property was tenanted until end of July 2018 and that he stayed there on 13 and 15 August 
2018. He bought the insurance policy on 15 August and said that on returning to the property 
on 19 August he discovered the damage and couldnt stay there anymore. 
C said there was no basis for Ageas to decide that his property was unoccupied. And 
regardless there are 30  90 day vacancy periods before a property is deemed unoccupied 
and this was not the case here. C said Mr O had to go ahead with the repairs as he wanted 
to re-let the property, but should be reimbursed for his outlay and his policy restored.
The investigator recommended the complaint be not upheld. He said the complaint was 
based on Mr Os occupation of the property between tenancies, however hed also told 
Ageas the property was empty when the policy started. The investigator said had Mr O told 
Ageas the property was empty it would have declined cover, as shown by its underwriting 
guidance. He said it was fair for Ageas to avoid the policy and not deal with Mr Os claim.
C didnt agree with the investigator. He said Mr O advised Ageas that the tenant had moved 
out on 31 July 2018 and that is what he meant by empty. C said Mr O stayed in the property 
on a number of occasions between the tenancies as did the occupant of the flat above, so 
the property could never be deemed to be unoccupied and when he was not there it was 
checked regularly by others and this could be proven. 
C said Ageas hadnt provided evidence that they would not have taken the risk based on the
occupancy status. And its policy conditions included regular inspections which indicates it 
does cover unoccupied properties. C requested an ombudsman review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the law and the evidence concerning Mr Os property to see if it was 
fair for Ageas to avoid his policy for not declaring that his property was unoccupied when he 
took the policy out. C has correctly described the unoccupancy conditions within the policy. 
These apply to a claim made within the policy term. However, it is Ageas position that there 
would have been no policy under which a claim could be made had Mr O not misrepresented 
the occupancy of the property when the policy started. 
I do not consider that the occupation of the flat above Mr Os means that his flat was 
effectively occupied. Ive seen no evidence of inspections of Mr Os flat by himself or others 
but in any event that doesnt change the occupation status of the property.
The relevant law in this case is The Insurance Act 2015. This places a duty on the insured to 
make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out an insurance contract (a 
policy). This means Mr O had to disclose either:
everything he knew, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an 
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; 
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
The first condition of Mr Os policy requires him to make a fair presentation of the risk to 
Ageas, and states it may avoid the policy if it would not have issued it or continued it 
knowing the true situation.
Ageas thinks Mr O failed to provide accurate information when he answered the occupancy 
questions. I have looked at the information Mr O gave Ageas about occupancy when he took 
out the policy. Mr O said the property was occupied 100% by means of private rental of six 
months or more duration. This was confirmed within the Statement of Fact sent to Mr O and 
not corrected by him. 
In his letter to Ageas of 20 September 2018 Mr O said he was unsure about when the 
damage occurred as the property has been empty since 31-7-18. C said Mr O meant that 
the property was un-tenanted, not that he hadnt stayed there. My understanding of empty 
is that it was unoccupied. Having told Ageas the property was empty, I dont think Mr O can 
now say that the property was in fact occupied, by himself. These statements appear to be 
contradictory and I think Mr O misrepresented the occupancy in answering the questions.
And if the insured fails in their duty to make a fair presentation, the insurer has certain 
remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what the Insurance Act describes as - a 
qualifying breach. For it to be a qualifying breach the insurer has to show it would have 
offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the insured hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
Ageas has said that it wouldnt have offered Mr O cover for his property had he answered its 
questions correctly and disclosed the unoccupancy. Ageas has disclosed its underwriting 
guidance to us which states that it wont offer cover where the property is vacant or 
temporarily unoccupied. This means Im satisfied Mr Os breach of the duty under The 
Insurance Act was a qualifying one.
Ageas has said its questions were clear, and yet Mr O responded with clear and incorrect 
answers. I agree with Ageas that The Insurance Act requires that the customer provides a 
fair presentation of the risk, which Mr O had failed to do. I have looked at the remedies available to Ageas under The Insurance Act. The Act says 
that if the insurer can show a qualifying breach, it can avoid the policy, and refuse any 
claims. Im satisfied from the evidence, that Ageas wouldnt have offered cover at all. I also 
think it was fair for Ageas to reimburse Mr O for the premiums he had paid since the policy 
started in August 2018.
I agree with the investigator that it was consistent with the law and fair for Ageas to avoid Mr 
Os policy and not deal with his claim. And  as the Act reflects our long-established 
approach to misrepresentation cases - I think requiring Ageas to follow the requirements of 
the Act produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman