DRN-1621712
 
The complaint
Miss S complains that MBNA Limited mis-sold her a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss S took out a credit card in 1997 through a postal application. She was sold the PPI at 
the same time in connection with this card.
The PPI cost around 66p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance and would have paid 
3% of the outstanding balance for up to 24 months if Miss S was off work sick and for up to 
12 months per claim if she lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Miss S complaint should be upheld. Miss S didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ss case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint.
First of all Ive considered whether Miss S would have been eligible for the policy. Based on 
Miss Ss age, work and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Miss S would have 
been eligible for the policy. 
MBNA had to make it clear to Miss S that the policy was optional and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Miss S says PPI was added without her 
knowledge. MBNA disagree with Miss S.
MBNA have provided us with a copy of the application form. I note that the application form 
had a separate section for PPI and this gave Miss S a choice as to whether or not to take 
PPI. It appears Miss S ticked to take PPI and signed this application form.  
So while I appreciate what Miss S has told us, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its 
more likely that MBNA did make Miss S aware that PPI was optional and it was only applied 
to the account because Miss S chose to take it out. 
Given that this was a postal sale with no involvement from a representative, I dont think 
MBNA advised Miss S to take PPI. This means they didnt need to take steps to check if PPI 
was suitable for Miss S. So for example, they didnt need to take into account Miss S 
personal circumstances or her existing repayment provisions.
But MBNA did have to give Miss S clear information so that she could make an informed 
decision about whether or not to take PPI. Its possible the information MBNA gave Miss S 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold 
as I have to go on and consider whether better information would have put her off taking it 
out. And I dont think it would have. I say this because:
- Miss S didnt appear to have been affected by the exclusions and onerous terms in 
the policy which would have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim under 
the policy. 
- Miss S has told us she wasnt entitled to any sick pay but would have received a 
redundancy package. I cant see that knowing that the PPI would provide a monthly 
benefit is she was off work sick and that it would pay out in addition any redundancy 
pay would have put her off taking it out. I appreciate what she has told us about her 
family helping her out, but ultimately repayment was her responsibility and this help 
couldnt be guaranteed. In any event, MBNA did not need to take this into account. 
- I havent seen any evidence to suggest the PPI was unaffordable to Miss S at the 
time of the sale. 
- Miss S could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially if she 
no longer wanted or needed it.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think MBNA mis-sold Miss S this PPI 
policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss S complaint against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman