DRN-1905194
The complaint
Mr G complains about the amount he received from Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited in 
settlement of his contents insurance claim for theft of his bicycle. 
What happened
Mr Gs bike was stolen on 29 December 2019. As he relied on his bike for commuting, he 
immediately bought a replacement and then made a claim to Admiral under his contents 
insurance the following day.
Admiral told Mr G that its specialist pedal cycle supplier would validate the claim. It also said 
that if he wanted a cash settlement (having already purchased a replacement) then that 
would be made minus the policy excess (£175) and any discount its supplier couldve 
obtained if it was replacing the bike as new. 
The supplier accepted the claim and about a week later offered Mr G a cash settlement of 
£738 (having deducted its discount and the policy excess). Mr G was unhappy with the 
amount he was offered so he complained to Admiral. Mr G said hed paid £1,055 for the bike 
that was stolen and it had £112 of accessories on it. He said he should receive £992  
(£1,055 + £112 minus the excess of £175). 
Admiral looked into Mr Gs complaint and issued its final response letter on 15 January 
2020. It said that under the policy terms and conditions the amount itd offered was the limit 
of its liability. And it said it had advised him during the call he first made to log the claim what 
that limit was. It said its suppliers had confirmed the settlement amount was based on the 
cost of a like-for-like replacement. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Admirals investigation, Mr G complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She 
thought that Admiral had settled the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions so she 
didnt recommend that it do anything more. 
Mr G disagreed with our investigators findings. He said it took Admiral 8 days from him 
making a claim for settlement to be offered. Our investigator looked at Mr Gs complaint 
again. She said that despite Mr G not previously having raised a complaint about the delay 
in receiving settlement she didnt think Admiral had taken an unreasonable amount of time to 
validate and settle the claim. So, she still didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Unhappy with our investigators findings, Mr G asked for his complaint to be referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions  along with the policy schedule  set out the contract 
between insurer and insured. Ive seen the policy terms and can see theres a section 
covering how contents and pedal cycle claims will be settled. It says:
We will either pay to repair the item, restore the itempay the cost of repairing it, replace 
the item as new, or make a payment up to the amount we could repair, restore or replace 
the item for after deducting any discount we would have received from our own 
suppliers [my emphasis]
So, the choice about how the claim is settled is Admirals. It couldnt repair or restore the 
item or pay the cost of repairing or restoring the item because the item  the bike  having 
been stolen, no longer exists. So, it either had to replace the bike as new, or make a 
payment up to the amount it could replace the bike for. The settlement term doesnt make 
any provision for settling the claim based on the amount the policyholder - Mr G - can 
replace the bike for. 
I can see that Admirals supplier offered to replace the bike for Mr G on a like-for-like basis 
but by the time it did, he had already bought himself a new one. The only other option 
provided for by the contract was for Admiral to make a payment up to the amount it wouldve 
cost its supplier to replace the bike. Insurers are typically able to negotiate special rates and 
discounts with the contractors and suppliers they use. Those rates tend to be cheaper than 
the rates available to the general public. Thats why most insurance policies contain a clause 
like the one Ive quoted above which gives the insurer the option, when cash settling a claim, 
to do so having deducted any discount it wouldve received from its own suppliers. 
I think Admiral has settled Mr Gs claim in line with its contractual obligation under the policy 
terms and conditions and up to the limit of its liability. Its supplier has deducted a discount 
and the policy excess from the cost of replacing Mr Gs bike with a like-for-like replacement. 
Given that its settled the claim in line with policy terms, I cant reasonably say that Admiral 
has treated Mr G unfairly in anyway. I also think that Admiral treated Mr G fairly from the 
outset by setting out that its suppliers discount and the policy excess would be deducted 
from any cash settlement made.
I fully appreciate that Mr G needed his bike for commuting but it was his choice to replace it 
before making his claim. And I can see that the policy terms contain a general condition 
relating to claims procedure which says: You must not Incur any costs without our 
agreement. I cant see that Mr G sought Admirals express agreement before purchasing 
the replacement bike. And whilst Mr G has said he bought the new bike on his credit card yet 
wouldnt be receiving the full amount he paid out from Admiral, Im unable to fairly say that 
the fact he wont is the result of any fault on Admirals part. 
Admiral is entitled to be able to validate each claim it receives. Depending on the type of 
claim made, the timeframe for doing so can vary. Here it appears there was a period of 9 
days between Mr G making the claim and settlement being offered. I dont think thats an 
unreasonable amount of time for Admiral to have taken, particularly given there was a 
weekend and new year holiday in between. And I cant see that Mr G suffered detrimentally 
during the time his claim was being considered and validated.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman