DRN-1803760
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited cancelled his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W took out a black box (telematics) policy through an intermediary. Southern Rock was 
the insurer. Mr W found the policy through a price comparison website.
Southern Rock have said that their quote manipulation software wasn't working at the time 
that Mr W accepted his policy. When it carried out its post-sale checks a few days later, it 
found that Mr W had carried out about 40 different searches. If its software had been 
working properly, it says it wouldn't have provided cover. So, it instructed the intermediary to 
cancel the insurance and return the premium, less time on cover and cancellation fees. After 
Mr W complained, the intermediary waived the £75 cancellation fee.
Southern Rock has said that it's entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy to 
cancel insurance where there are 'valid grounds' to do so. It thought that in making 40 
different searches, there was a risk that Mr W was either making a fraudulent insurance 
application or that he was trying to manipulate the quote system to get a cheaper price. 
Southern Rock says that each of these things would have meant it wouldn't have quoted.
When Mr W took out the policy, he had the benefit of one year's no claims discount (NCD). 
As a result of the cancellation, he's found it impossible to get insurance since and has ended 
up losing his NCD when it expired.
Our investigator recommended that Mr W's complaint be upheld. He thought that Southern 
Rock should remove any record of the cancellation, confirm the same level of NCD remained 
available and pay £200 for the trouble and upset caused. Southern Rock didn't agree. It sent 
in further evidence from the price comparison website showing the details that had been 
changed in the quotes. It asked for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that Mr W's complaint should be upheld. I'll explain why.
Putting things right
Southern Rock is understandably concerned to ensure that it doesn't take on customers who 
have made fraudulent applications or have manipulated its systems with incorrect 
information to obtain a cheaper quote. It has software in place to combat this, although when 
Mr W applied for his insurance, that software was temporarily unavailable.
In deciding this complaint, I've carefully considered the evidence provided about the quotes 
that Mr W obtained. In all 41 cases, the same price of just under £1,000 was returned, although in some of them the system refused to quote. The price comparison website has 
provided three different examples. The details provided by Mr W in all of them are the same 
but for:
the type of cover that he requested (third party, fire and theft; third party only and fully 
comprehensive);
the start date for the insurance (which varied by a day); and
the NCD (which was either zero or one year).
 
So, they all have the same address details, mileage, home address, occupation, drivers, etc.
Mr W ended up taking out third party, fire and theft cover with one year's NCD. I appreciate 
that Southern Rock's software wasn't working, and I'd generally say it would be for it to 
decide if it wanted to quote or not, depending upon its underwriting guidelines. But I can't 
see anything in the other quotes that highlights a concern here.
One of the other quotes was for fully comprehensive cover, zero years' NCD and £1,000 
excess. And the other was for third party only cover with one year's NCD. All returned the 
same price. Looking for different types of cover is pretty standard consumer practice  - 
especially when cost is an issue. And most insurers and price comparison websites 
encourage their customers to opt for different levels of excess to get a cheaper price.
The only things here that may have appeared suspect to an insurer would be the number of 
quotes obtained (which I understand Southern Rock takes into account) and the change of 
NCD from one to zero on one of the quotes. Mr W can't remember what he put into the price 
comparison website when getting the quotes. But I've seen no evidence that he was being 
untruthful or attempting to deceive.
With the NCD, a simple explanation may be that he'd not had insurance for almost a year 
and a half. So, the availability of his NCD was close to its two-year expiry. Given that, 
perhaps Mr W was just checking how much of a difference, if any, using his NCD would 
make. There's no requirement that a consumer must use their NCD on a particular insurance 
purchase. So, there's nothing to indicate here that there was anything underhand going on.
It wasn't Mr W's fault that Southern Rock's software wasn't working properly at the time he 
obtained the insurance. And there's no evidence that he's obtained any advantage in terms 
of price or cover as a result of the different quotes he ran.
I don't consider it to be fair and reasonable for Southern Rock to have used this as a reason 
to cancel Mr W's policy. If its software had been working, then it could have declined to offer 
cover if it wanted to. But it wasn't. And it's not fair for it to have then taken Mr W's cover 
away after it had agreed to insure him - particularly given the negative effect this will 
undoubtedly have had on Mr W's ability to get affordable insurance in the future. So, under 
the cancellation terms of Southern Rock's policy, I don't think this was a 'valid ground' for it 
to cancel the policy.
In considering appropriate redress, I've taken into account the stigma attached to a 
consumer having a record of an insurer-led cancellation of their policy. Indeed, Mr W has 
since found it impossible to find affordable cover and has ended up losing the benefit of his 
one year's NCD. So, I agree with the redress recommended by our investigator which I've 
set out below. This includes Southern Rock affirming Mr W's one year's NCD to reflect the 
fact that he lost this following the unfair cancellation and his being unable to obtain cover 
before it expired.I also agree that Mr W should be compensated by Southern Rock for the trouble and upset 
that he's been caused as a result of his policy being unfairly cancelled. And for that, I think 
£200 is an appropriate sum.
My final decision
It's my final decision to uphold this complaint and I require that Southern Rock Insurance 
Company Limited:
make arrangements to remove any reference to the policy cancellation from its 
internal records and any external databases to which it reports;
upon Mr W sending it evidence of the NCD that he had with his last insurer, confirm 
to him in writing that he has accrued the same length of NCD with it, effective from 
the date it issues that confirmation;
write to Mr W explaining that his policy was cancelled by it incorrectly and that he 
does not need to declare its cancellation when applying for future insurance policies; 
and
pay Mr W £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to him.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman