DRN-3388130
The complaint
Mr D complains he was unable to make a payment online to his Ikano Bank AB (publ) 
(Ikano) account leading to interest and charges being incurred and his account being 
placed in default.
What happened
Mr D has held an Ikano credit card account since 2003. In October 2021, Mr D attempted to 
make a payment to his account using their online portal. But the portal wouldnt accept his 
payment due to system problems. He attempted to make a payment on three occasions but 
received the same message each time. It suggested there was an ongoing problem 
accepting payments from certain devices.
Mr D emailed Ikano about his problem on 29 October 2021. He received an automated 
response saying he would receive a reply within a few days. Mr D didnt receive anything, 
but he did receive a letter from Ikano dated 1 November 2021 which said his account was in 
arrears and hed been charged £12.
Mr D obtained a contact telephone number for Ikano, so he called them on 8 November 
2021. He explained his problem and said he was unhappy with their service. He said he 
always repaid his full balance and wasnt prepared to pay the interest costs incurred due to 
their system problem. Mr D says Ikano wouldnt accept a payment or set up a direct debit, 
but they did log his complaint.
Mr D contacted Ikano again, having not received any further contact after two weeks. But 
they would only let him speak to their recoveries department. He says he asked to make full 
payment again and wanted them to put his account back in the position it wouldve been, 
had he been able to make his payment online in October. He wanted them to refund all 
interest and fees, compensate him for his time and call costs and remove any adverse 
information from his credit file.
Mr D called Ikano again at the end of November and requested a direct debit form and a 
bank giro slip so he could pay his bill. But he says he didnt receive these. Mr D says he 
continued to try to make payment online, without success. When he attempted to obtain an 
update on his complaint in January, Mr D says Ikano refused to speak and told him they 
were sending a default notice. 
Mr D wasnt happy with Ikano responses. He said he hadnt received their final response to 
his complaint. Ikano agreed to send a copy to him by email. But he decided to refer his 
complaint to this service. 
Having reviewed Mr Ds complaint, our investigator didnt think Ikano needed to take any 
more action. He said Ikano had already offered to pay Mr D £25 as a gesture of goodwill, but 
hed refused this. He also said Ikanos website did explain there were alternative ways for Mr 
D to pay what he owed. And because Mr D hadnt made any payments, Ikano hadnt done 
anything wrong when they issued a default notice.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators findings. He said he hadnt looked, or been directed 
to look, at Ikanos website. So, he wasnt aware of any alternative payment methods. He 
didnt think the payment offered by Ikano was enough. He thought this service should review 
transcripts of all the calls hed made to Ikano.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ds complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano have confirmed they did experience problems with their online payment portal during 
the period Mr D refers to. Those problems were specific to devices that used a particular 
operating system. Unfortunately, all of Mr Ds personal computer and smart devices use that 
system. So, it meant he was unable to make payments to his account this way.
Ive considered what alternatives were available to Mr D to ensure he could make the 
necessary payments. I searched for Ikanos website using a popular search engine. Their 
website includes a page entitled Ways to pay. It explains that payments can be made using 
their online service. It also provides full bank details and instructions for an online banking 
payment to be made together with a telephone number to enable an automated payment 
using a debit card. I think the information is clear and easy to understand. So, while I accept 
Mr D may not have been directed to this information, I think it was relatively straightforward 
to find.
I completely understand Mr Ds frustration at not being able to make a payment using his 
preferred method. This is unfortunate. But I cant reasonably conclude that Mr D didnt have 
reasonable alternatives available to him.
Mr D says he emailed Ikano on 29 October 2021 but didnt receive a response. Ive listened 
to a recording of Mr Ds call to Ikano on 8 November 2021. The agent tries to help Mr D and 
agrees to raise a complaint. Mr D said hed received an automated acknowledgment to his 
email which said Ikano would aim to get back to him within 10 working days. This call was 
only the sixth working day after his email. So, this may explain why he hadnt had a reply. 
And given the agent agreed to raise a formal complaint, may explain why he didnt 
subsequently receive a reply. The agent also refunded the £12 late payment fee theyd 
charged.
Mr D asked this service to review transcripts of all his telephone calls to Ikano. Not all of 
these are available from Ikano, and theres no regulatory requirement for them to record or 
hold transcripts of them. But I have been able to review the notes Ikano made on Mr Ds file 
following each contact he had with them. Having considered these, together with the call 
recording from 8 November 2021, they suggest Mr D wasnt willing to make a payment to his 
account unless Ikano agreed to refund all charges and interest and pay compensation at a 
level he believed acceptable. But as his complaint was still being investigated, they werent 
able to do that.
Credit and store card accounts are subject to a contractual agreement issued under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). This means that Mr D must continue to meet his 
obligations under that agreement, even where he has an outstanding complaint. At no point 
did Ikano vary or suspend that obligation. And they werent required to. So, while I realise Mr 
D will be disappointed, I think he had a responsibility to continue payments while his 
complaint was being investigated. Unfortunately, Mr D didnt maintain payments, despite 
options being available to him. 
Ikanos file notes show that Mr D spoke to them on 11 November 2021  three days after his 
complaint was raised. Ikano agreed to refund interest of £11.99 resulting from Mr Ds 
payment problems. They also offered to take full payment from Mr D, reinstate his direct 
debit and pay £25 compensation. I think this was a fair response to Mr Ds complaint. It 
ensured he wasnt financially disadvantaged and reflected any distress or inconvenience 
caused. Mr D told Ikano theyd previously cancelled his payment direct debit. Ikanos file notes show 
Mr D himself requested they do that on 28 January 2015. So, I cant reasonably hold Ikano 
at fault for that. Mr D refused their offer to resolve his complaint. He wanted them to send 
their final response in writing. Ikanos records also show they sent a direct debit form to Mr D 
on 12 November 2021, albeit Mr D says he didnt receive this.
Ive seen the letter Ikano sent to Mr D in response to his complaint. It summarises their 
position and the offer of £25. Mr D says he didnt receive this although it does confirm what 
he was told during the conversation of 11 November 2021. I believe this was sent to him 
again by email on 24 February 2022.
The whole situation appears very unfortunate and I do understand Mr Ds frustrations. But I 
dont agree he didnt have other options available to enable him to make payment. And, as 
Ive already mentioned, I believe Mr D had an obligation under the account agreement to 
maintain those payments, regardless of the outstanding complaint. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issue guidance and principles for the reporting 
of arrears, arrangements and defaults (PRAAD) at credit reference agencies. It says that as 
a general guide, a default may be recorded when you are three months in arrears, and 
normally by the time you are six months in arrears. From the information Ive seen, it 
appears the arrears on Mr Ds account met this requirement. So, I dont think Ikano did 
anything wrong when they issued a default notice and recorded this on Mr Ds credit file. 
I realise Mr D will be very disappointed, but I think the steps and offer made by Ikano were 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances here. So, I shant be asking them to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman