DRN-2788460
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined their claim for storm damage 
to their roof under a home insurance policy.
Any reference to Aviva includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs B has a home insurance policy with Aviva. In June 2020, Mr and Mrs B made a claim 
under the policy for storm damage to their roof after noticing an ingress of water into one of 
the bedrooms. They said they thought this was as a result of a storm that occurred around 
two weeks before. Aviva arranged for a surveyor to visit the property and review matters. 
Following this, the surveyor concluded that the damage was caused by wear and tear. So, 
Aviva declined the claim. 
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with this, pointing out theyd never previously had any issues 
with their roof. They said theyd spoken with some of Avivas advisers who said there were 
high winds and gave them the impression that their claim would be successful. Mr and Mrs B 
also pointed out that it took Aviva so long to deal with the matter that it resulted in further 
damage to the roof. They said they were left with no option but to appoint their own roofer to 
look into things  who thought the damage was caused by a storm. Mr and Mrs B 
complained to Aviva. 
Aviva reviewed matters and thought it had fairly declined the claim. It did, however, agree 
that the customer service it provided couldve been better and there were delays in the 
matter being reviewed. It offered Mr and Mrs B £50 compensation to recognise this. 
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators reviewed matters. He ultimately thought there wasnt enough 
evidence to suggest the roof damage was caused by a storm and therefore Aviva had fairly 
declined the claim. He did, however, think Avivas customer service couldve been better, 
and thought Mr and Mrs B had been given false hope that the claim would be successful. He 
recommended a total of £100 compensation to put matters right.
Aviva disputed our investigators recommendations and thought the £50 compensation it had 
since paid was fair. Mr and Mrs B also repeated their previous points. As an agreement 
couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of the policy state that the insured building is covered for loss and/or damage in 
certain events. Therefore, as a starting point, Mr and Mrs B need to show that the damage 
caused to their roof was caused by one of those events.
The policy terms show that one of those listed events is damage to the building as a result of 
a storm. So, I first need to consider whether there was a storm at the time there was damage 
to the roof. The policy document doesnt define a storm. In reviewing these circumstances, 
we would usually consider that there needs to have been high winds, usually accompanied 
by rain, hail or snow. 
Ive reviewed weather reports for the area around the time that Mr and Mrs B say that there 
was a storm. Looking at what was recorded at a nearby weather station, Im not persuaded 
that storm conditions were present. This is because whilst its clear that there were periods 
of some strong winds, none of these were of a strength that would persuade me to think that 
a storm had occurred.
However, even if I was persuaded that storm conditions were present, I would also need to 
think about whether there were other factors behind the damage to Mr and Mrs Bs roof. The 
terms outline that wear and tear, or damage that happens gradually over a period of time, 
isnt covered. So, if Im persuaded that the damage to the roof was as a result of underlying 
problems with it, rather than as a result of a one-off storm, it wouldnt be fair to ask Aviva to 
cover the claim.
The report provided by Avivas surveyor says:
a number of tiles to the valley sides have been cut incorrectly and also the mortar 
to valley sides is failing and allowing water to ingress into the property
Considering all the evidence available on survey it is our considered opinion that the 
damage claimed has been as the result of poor workmanship...
Full declinature  Poor workmanship and deterioration to valley.
The report also includes clear photographs, which support the surveyors position outlined in 
the report.
I know Mr and Mrs B have said their professional roofer says the damage was caused by the 
storm, and the remainder of the roof is in good condition otherwise. Mr and Mrs B have 
provided an invoice from their roofer outlining this information. But having reviewed this, I 
cant see any clear reasons as to why the roofer believes this to be the case. Ive also 
considered that this information is provided on an invoice, rather than a full report. The report 
provided by Avivas surveyor is comprehensive and includes photographs that clearly 
corroborate the points being made. It follows that Im more persuaded by the report provided 
by Avivas surveyor.
I know Mr and Mrs B feel strongly about the matter but, from the evidence Ive seen, I think 
its likely that there were underlying problems with the roof, particularly a deterioration to the 
valley as outlined in the surveyors report. And, considering that the policy doesnt cover 
damage that happens over a period of time, I dont think Aviva acted unfairly by declining the 
claim.
Ive considered fair compensation and Im mindful of our investigators recommendation that 
Aviva should compensate Mr and Mrs B for raising their expectations of the claim being 
successful. I wasnt persuaded that an increase in compensation was appropriate. So, I 
asked for Mr and Mrs Bs comments and, as I understand it, they say that Avivas advisers 
told them on several occasions that there were wind speeds of over 55mph and encouraged 
them to continue with the claim.Ive listened to the calls Mr B had with Avivas advisers. In one call in particular, the adviser 
Mr B spoke with explained that theyd expect to see conditions of 55mph to classify as a 
storm. After going to check the wind speeds, he said: Ive checked the weather conditions in 
your areadefinitely the wind speeds wed be expecting to see to cause this sort of 
damage. I can understand why Mr B may have been hopeful the claim would be successful 
here and its unfortunate that the adviser gave Mr B incorrect information about the wind 
speeds on this call. But Ive also considered that straight after, the adviser said that they 
couldnt confirm whether the claim would be covered and would therefore arrange for 
someone to come and assess the damage. So, I do think Aviva made it clear that matters 
would need to be reviewed before a claim was successful. And, Ive not heard anything else 
in the calls Ive listened to that contradicts this.
Aviva has recognised that the overall level of service it provided couldve been better and 
has arranged to pay Mr and Mrs B £50 compensation for this. Having carefully considered 
the impact of the overall level of service, including being given incorrect information and the 
delays in dealing with the matter, I think the £50 compensation that Aviva has already paid is 
fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont think Aviva Insurance Limited needs to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman