DRN-1708541
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car supplied with finance from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In January 2019 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander.
In December 2019 Mr B contacted Santander and advised that the car had been in an 
accident and had been written off. He also said hed experienced some issues with the 
clutch in the first 6 months and he thought these issues and caused the accident. Mr B 
asked Santander to cover the outstanding balance under his agreement. 
In response, Santander said that after the first 6 months it was up to Mr B to show that there 
was a fault present at the point of supply. It also said it would be difficult, even if the car was 
repaired, to establish whether the fault was present at the point of supply because of the 
accident damage.
Mr B wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt enough evidence to show there was a fault at 
the point of supply.
Mr B didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Santander has supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as, amongst 
other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second-
hand car  such as that supplied to Mr B  to have a degree of wear and tear. So, in order to 
uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the car had a fault at the point of 
supply rather than an issue caused by general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, its 
presumed that it was present or developing at the point of supply unless the business can 
show otherwise. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer 
to show that the fault was present at the point of supply.
Mr B and Santander disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In 
order to reach a decision, I need to look at the available evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr B has said he experienced problems with the clutch during the first 6 months. I can see 
that the car passed a MOT in January 2019. No issues with the clutch were noted at this 
time. I can also see that Mr B took the car to a garage in March 2019 to have it checked. The 
garage has confirmed that it looked at the car and found the clutch and the flywheel to be 
noisy. However, it didnt investigate further or diagnose a fault.
Mr B has said he complained to the supplying dealer and booked the car in for repairs in 
December 2019. However, the car was involved in an accident before this could happen.
Ive taken all the available evidence into account. And whilst I dont doubt that Mr B 
experienced a noisy clutch, which was confirmed by the garage in March 2019, theres no 
evidence of a fault with the clutch. 
Further, I can see that Mr B was able to drive the car throughout 2019. He didnt mention the 
issue with the clutch to the supplying dealer until December 2019. If there had been a fault 
with the clutch at the point of supply, I would have expected this to be identified when the car 
was MOTd in January 2019. In addition, I dont think Mr B would have been able to drive the 
car throughout 2019 if the clutch had been faulty at the point of supply. 
On balance, I dont think theres enough evidence  for me to safely conclude that the clutch 
was faulty at the pint of supply, or that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman