DRN-2421774
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with the amount Close Brothers Limited are asking her to pay under a hire 
purchase agreement.
What happened
Ms S entered into a hire purchase agreement with Close Brothers in November 2017. The 
car she got through the agreement was just under 18 months old. The total amount payable 
was £17,526.41.
Ms S told us she took the agreement out for her son. Hed recently returned from living 
abroad and wasnt able to get credit in his name. Ms S said her son needed a car and she 
wanted to help him. Ms S also told us she didnt have a driving licence and has never been 
able to drive.
Up until June 2019, all the payments due under the agreement had been made. But then 
Ms Ss son was due to move abroad again. So she called Close Brothers and told them the 
car wasnt needed any more. Over the next few days Ms S spoke to them several times 
about her options to hand the car back. 
Close Brothers collected the car at the end of June 2019. It was sold at auction early the 
following month. Ms S thought this meant there was nothing more to pay under the 
agreement. But there was still a balance of over £3,200 left on her agreement. This included 
a charge of £170.69 for damages that were identified when the car was handed back. When 
Ms S found this out towards the end of July 2019, she complained to Close Brothers. She 
said shed been told if the car was sold for more than £4,000, she wouldnt have anything 
else to pay.
Close Brothers rejected her complaint. In summary they said: they hadnt been able to 
confirm exactly how much Ms S owed until the car was sold; and she was liable for the 
balance remaining on the agreement. Ms S wasnt happy with this. She brought her 
complaint to our service saying Close Brothers had misled her about there being anything to 
pay once the car had been returned. Ms S also said the car was only used by her son. She 
never used it as she couldnt drive.
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld. 
Briefly, she didnt think Close Brothers had made an error. Our investigator also said that the 
agreement didnt require Ms S to have a driving licence. Ms S didnt accept this. She 
repeated that Close Brothers had told her she wouldnt have anything to pay if the car sold 
for more than £4,000.
This didnt change our investigators view. She told Ms S that recordings of the calls from 
2019 werent available and she still thought Close Brothers hadnt made an error. Ms S still 
didnt agree with this. So, as the matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware that 
Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, and in 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is 
the heart of the matter here: have Close Brothers done anything wrong by asking Ms S to 
pay the outstanding balance due under the agreement?
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
 
As Ms Ss son was moving abroad again, she wanted to return the car and end the 
agreement with Close Brothers. In general terms, she would have had two options - 
voluntary termination (VT) or voluntary surrender (VS).
VT would mean returning the car and paying half the total amount payable under the 
agreement plus any other sums due before termination. In Ms Ss case, the total amount 
payable under her agreement was £17,526.41. Half of this is £8,763.21 and this figure was 
also set out in the agreement. When Ms S wanted to end the agreement in June 2019, shed 
made 19 payments totalling £4,805.48. This meant she needed to pay Close Brothers 
£3,957.72 to reach half of the total amount payable needed under VT. On top of this she 
would need to pay any other sums due, such as the £170.69 charge for damages.
 
VS involves Close Brothers selling the car and deducting whatever amount it sold for from 
the outstanding balance due under the agreement. Ms S would then need to pay the 
remaining outstanding balance. The sale price would dictate whether VT or VS was the 
better option for her. Clearly, this wouldnt be known until the car was actually sold.
Ive looked at Close Brothers records. These show the car sold for £7,642. At that time the 
outstanding balance was just over £12,700. After the sale proceeds had been deducted and 
adjustments made for the agreement ending early, this left an outstanding balance due on 
Ms S agreement of £3.030.61 plus the charge for damages of £170.69. This gives a total of 
£3,201.30. This is the amount Close Brothers are now asking her to pay.
I would expect Close Brothers to work out the most cost-effective option for Ms S when she 
wanted to end her agreement early. I can see thats what they did. Its clear to me that VS 
was the best option in the circumstances here.
But Ms S maintains she was told if the car sold for more than £4,000, shed have nothing left 
to pay. Close Brothers records dont back this up. Instead, these show that when she first 
called them, Close Brothers let her know what amount she needed to pay to reach the half-
way amount due under her agreement. The notes also show Close Brothers suggested 
selling the car might be an option. These notes are consistent with what Id expect to be 
discussed in this situation.
The records go on to show Ms S wanted a settlement figure for her account and was told it 
was £11,127.86. So its really not clear to me why Close Brothers would have told Ms S she 
wouldnt have anything more to pay if the car was sold for more than £4,000 or why she 
would have understood this to be the case. The notes simply dont back this up.I would add that these calls werent recorded. I can see Close Brothers began rolling out 
their call recording programme to their branch network in October 2019. This is after the 
calls Ms S made earlier that year.
But even if the calls were recorded, and even if these did show Ms S was told she would 
have nothing more to pay if the car sold for more than £4,000, that doesnt mean Close 
Brothers are now acting unfairly by asking her to pay the balance due under her agreement. 
If she was told that, it would simply mean Close Brothers had made a mistake in giving her 
that information. It wouldnt mean Ms S had nothing to pay.
As Ive outlined above, if Ms S wanted to end her agreement and return the car, her options 
were VT or VS. There would always have been a balance to pay, even if she was given 
wrong information and, as Ive said above, the available evidence doesnt support that she 
was.
Ms S has said if she knew there would still be a balance to pay, she would have kept the car. 
I dont accept this. As shes told us, her son had moved abroad again, and she didnt drive. 
So its not clear to me what use she would have had for it. In any event, if she had kept it, 
she would still have had to make the payments due under the agreement. Ms S couldnt 
have sold the car privately without Close Brothers permission as she didnt own it, they did.
 
But Ill stress again, Im satisfied the available evidence is consistent with Close Brothers 
correctly outlining Ms Ss available options - it doesnt support that she was told there would 
be nothing to pay if the car sold for more than £4,000. The evidence also shows Close 
Brothers rightly identified that VS rather than VT was the most cost-effective option for Ms S.
 
Ms S has said she should never have been allowed to take out the agreement as she didnt 
have a driving licence. I dont agree. Theres nothing in her agreement with Close Brothers 
that stipulates shed needed to have a driving licence. Nor would I expect there to be.
I can see Ms S brought the car from a local dealer. The terms and conditions on its website 
do say that a driving licence is required. But the complaint Im looking at is against Close 
Brothers, not the dealer. So Im only looking at the actions of Close Brothers here.
 
Notwithstanding that, for completeness, it seems reasonable to me that even though Ms S 
hasnt got a driving licence, the dealer was happy to sell her a car as it knew it was for her 
son  and he did have a licence. 
I would also point out that Ms S has told us she entered into the agreement with Close 
Brothers willingly to help her son. Theres been no suggestion whatsoever that she didnt 
want to enter into the agreement or that she was coerced or forced into it under duress.
 
Finally, while Ms S hasnt specifically complained about the £170.69 charge for damages, 
Ive thought about whether its fair and reasonable for Close Brothers to ask her to pay this. 
Ive looked at the inspection report that was carried out when the car was returned. This 
clearly shows a cut to one of the tyres and damage to an alloy wheel. Both of these would 
have been likely to have an impact on the resale value of the car. So Im satisfied the charge 
has been applied fairly and reasonably in line with the terms and conditions of Ms Ss 
agreement.
In summary, Im satisfied Close Brothers acted fairly and reasonably when Ms S returned 
the car. They outlined her options and identified that VS would be best for her. It follows that 
Im also satisfied Close Brothers havent done anything wrong by asking Ms S to pay the 
outstanding balance due under the agreement.All I would add is I would expect Close Brothers to discuss and agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement with Ms S to repay the balance due, and to treat her both positively 
and sympathetically if shes in or experiences any financial difficulties. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman