DRN-3071095
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd provided her with a hire purchase 
agreement for a car in August 2017 that was unaffordable.
What happened
In August 2017 Mrs M entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance for a used car. The cost of the car was £4,948 and Mrs M paid a £200 deposit, 
leaving a cash price to pay of £4,748. The total credit charge was around £4,095 
making a total to pay of about £9,045 via 60 monthly payments of around £147.
Mrs M says that although she really wanted a car at the time to help with transport, this 
credit agreement was unaffordable for her and Blue Motor Finance failed to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks as to her income and outgoings. She was only 
asked to produce a bank statement to verify her income. Mrs M says her sole source of 
income at that time actually came from working and child tax credits and child benefit.
Mrs M says she struggled to pay the credit agreement, was receiving financial support 
from her family to help pay her bills and was in rent arrears at the time. In or around 
October 2017 Mrs M no longer received working tax credits and instead received 
unemployment benefit and in December 2017 her direct debit for the car was returned 
unpaid. Mrs M offered to make payments of £100pm towards the car but due to the size of 
the arrears and missed payments Blue Motor Finance issued a default notice. There was 
some discussion between Mrs M and the Blue Motor about Mrs M voluntary terminating 
the agreement though she later decided not. Mrs M continued to make payments on the 
car but was unable to keep to a payment plan and in or around August 2018 the car was 
repossessed and later sold at auction.
Blue Motor Finance treated the agreement as though it had been voluntary terminated 
and limited Mrs Ms liability to half of the credit agreement and said that after deducting 
what she had already paid under the agreement there was an outstanding liability of 
around £2,895.
In August 2019 Mrs M complained to Blue Motor Finance that the hire purchase agreement 
had been unaffordable. Blue Motor Finance didnt uphold her complaint. It said Mrs M had 
confirmed she was self-employed with an income of £19,200 per year and it was her 
responsibility to provide accurate information. Blue Motor Finance said it had received a 
bank statement and undertaken credit checks and Mrs M had signed the agreement to show 
the payments were affordable.
Mrs M disagreed with the decision of Blue Motor Finance and complained to this service. 
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt 
think Blue Motor Finance had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mrs M was able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way.
Our investigator said that to put things right, Blue Motor Finance should refund Mrs M 
her deposit with interest. And as Mrs M had had use of the car, our investigator said that 
it was fair for her to pay for that, but she shouldnt pay any interest or charges as the 
agreement shouldnt have been provided to her. Our investigator said it would be fair for 
Mrs M to pay £100 per month for the 12-months she had used the car and so Blue 
Motor Finance should calculate how much she had paid, deduct £1,200 from that 
amount and reimburse the remainder with interest.
Our investigator also said that it would be fair for Blue Motor Finance to remove any 
adverse information about this account from Mrs Ms credit file
Mrs M agreed with the view of our investigator, but Blue Motor Finance disagreed. It said 
there had been no signs of financial distress when it had checked Mrs Ms credit history 
and there had been significant amounts moving through her account as would be 
expected. It said that it had complied with CONC rules with its checks. Blue Motor 
Finance also raised that Mrs M was married and so it could be presumed that her some 
of her expenditures would be shared.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law there are 
two overarching questions I needed to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These questions were:
Did Blue Motor Finance complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mrs M would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way?
a). If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b). If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that 
Mrs M wouldve been able to sustainable repay the agreement
Did Blue Motor Finance act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Looking at the first question, I agreed with the view of our investigator that I didnt think 
Blue Motor Finance had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks despite its 
representations that it had, and I will explain why. However, I did think it had done enough 
to verify her income in the circumstances.
Blue Motor Finance said the checks it had carried out complied with the requirements of 
the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) set out in the FCAs handbook when 
assessing affordability. CONC said that a credit provider, in order to responsibly lend, was 
required to carry out what was referred to as an affordability check and this check should 
be borrower focused. This was to verify Mrs M could sustainably afford the borrowing 
when looking at her particular circumstances.
CONC also said that checks were to be reasonable and proportionate and whats 
considered to fit that test would depend on a number of factors such as the amount of 
credit; the total repayable and the size of the regular payments; the duration of the 
agreement, the cost of the credit and the consumers circumstances.
Here, the total amount payable was around £9,042 with monthly payments of £147 
over a six-year term. Mrs Ms declared annual income was £19,200 and she said she 
was self- employed. The monthly income for this salary equates to around £1,360 and 
the monthly payments equated to around 11% of Mrs Ms stated monthly earnings. So, I thought it was reasonable to say this was a sizable and lengthy credit agreement for 
Mrs M to enter into and, due to that, I thought the affordability check needed to be 
thorough for it to satisfy the requirement set down in CONC. Particularly as Mrs M was 
a single mother with four dependent children. Blue Motor Finance hadnt asked her any 
questions about her personal circumstances and in order to assess her financial 
commitments, information about her personal circumstances would have been 
essential.
Blue Motor Finance said that Mrs M had declared her income as being £19,200 per year 
and that she was self-employed running her own business. Mrs M said she really needed 
a car due to her personal circumstances and so had calculated her income from her 
working and child tax credits. While I appreciated Mrs M was possibly not as open as she 
should have been about her financial situation to the dealership, Id seen that her income 
via her tax credits was fairly close to the expected monthly income for the earnings she 
had declared. And while I had seen that Mrs M signed the agreement, and by doing so, 
was acknowledging that the details contained in it, including her income from her self-
employment, were correct that didnt mean Blue Motor Finance wasnt still required to 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks.
Here, the borrowing was equivalent to about half of the amount Mrs M had declared as 
her annual earnings. And Id seen that Blue Motor Finance said it had verified Mrs Ms 
income by undertaking a credit check and looking at bank statements. It said the 
statements had shown significant sums passing through her account. I wasnt sure 
which bank statements were seen by Blue Motor Finance, but Id seen copies of Mrs 
Ms bank statements for May and June 2017 together with statements for the months 
after the inception of the agreement.
In the May to June 2017 statement, it had shown the regular income from the tax credits 
together with at least three large sums being paid in. While I appreciated Mrs M said these 
were actually loans from family members to help her pay bills, I didnt think this would 
have been obvious from the bank statements. As Mrs M declared herself to be self-
employed, I thought it was reasonable that Blue Motor Finance wouldnt be looking for 
regular payments and so lump sums being paid in on a more ad hoc basis wouldnt have 
indicated that Mrs M wasnt earning the amount she had claimed. Looking at the amount 
being borrowed, and the length of the agreement, I didnt think it would have been 
reasonable and proportionate for Blue Motor Finance to have required Mrs M to have 
produced business accounts or tax returns to verify her income. I thought bank statements 
would have been sufficient. However, I didnt know how many months worth of 
statements had been requested by Blue Motor Finance. I thought it should have been 
more than one, since one month may not necessarily show all of someones committed 
expenditure. However, I thought it was likely Blue Motor Finance had made proportionate 
and reasonable checks to verify Mrs Ms income.
But I didnt think Blue Motor Finance had properly gathered information about Mrs Ms 
expenses/financial commitments. They didnt appear to have asked any questions about 
her outgoings or if she had dependents and had assumed she was married and still with 
her partner so bills were shared.
I accepted that the credit file provided by Mrs M had information that wouldnt have been 
available to Blue Motor when it had undertaken its check. Id seen that a loan and a 
credit card had only just been taken out around the time of this credit agreement and this 
meant it was too soon for those items to have been included in a credit report. But had 
Blue Motor Finance asked Mrs M about any other loans or credit cards then it was likely 
she would have revealed those.Id also seen that the credit file contained a default for an account in 2014 with balance of
£1,230 which didnt appear to have been paid off. Blue Motor Finance said it considered 
this was historic and so hadnt attached weight to it. But, as it would have been around 
three years old at the time of this credit application and I had seen the default balance 
hadnt reduced much over that time, I thought it would have been reasonable to have 
expected this adverse information to have caused concern for Blue Motor Finance. This 
was a potential indicator that Mrs M could struggle to meet her credit commitments.
I thought information outside of what was in Mrs Ms credit record was required when 
considering the length and proportion of her monthly income that would be committed 
to paying this agreement. Blue Finance Motor should have checked Mrs M wasnt 
overcommitting when taking on this agreement.
So, for the reasons set out above, I didnt think Blue Motor Finance  hadcompleted 
reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs M would be able to repay 
this agreement in a sustainable way. This meant I now needed to consider that if Blue 
Motor Finance had carried out those checks, would it have shown Mrs M was able to 
repay this agreement in a sustainable way. I thought the answer to this second question 
was no.
I couldnt be sure of the information and evidence Blue Motor Finance would have asked 
for or would have received if it had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, so I 
looked at what it would have been likely to have discovered. Here, I thought questions 
about whether she had dependants, how and who paid the rent and other bills plus their 
amounts and whether there were other credit agreements recently taken out would have 
uncovered that Mrs M was a single parent of four children with a limited income, that she 
was responsible for all the household bills and had recently taken out other credit 
agreements.
While I had seen there were lump sum payments going into Mrs Ms bank account, I was 
satisfied that these were payments from family members trying to help support her rather 
than income from any self-employed work. Id seen Mrs M had taken out loans in an 
attempt to pay off debts. I thought she had been consistent that her income, at the time 
she had taken out the credit agreement, came only from her tax credits. Id also seen that 
shortly after she had entered into this agreement, she had lost her child tax credits and 
was in receipt of benefits.
Mrs M said her rent was £674pm although this figure didnt appear on her bank 
statements, however I understood Mrs M was in arrears and took out loans after this 
credit agreement and I thought this corroborated that Mrs M had to borrow to clear the 
arrears and pay her rent.
Mrs M said she was paying around £433pm to cover food and essential things for the 
family, she also had to pay for mobile, internet/TV, fuel, utilities. Looking at her outgoings it 
appeared that Mrs M had more money going out than coming in. And although Blue Motor 
Finance had assumed these bills were shared with her husband that wasnt the case.
So, I thought that had Blue Motor Finance made more enquiries about Mrs M 
personal circumstances that it was more likely than not that it would have declined 
Mrs Ms credit application for the car. And I was intending to uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint.
The final question I had to consider was whether Blue Motor Finance had done anything 
else wrong. Id seen that Mrs M felt it had acted unfairly by repossessing the car when it 
had. But looking at the notes from Blue Motor Finance, Id seen it had tried to make contact on a number of occasions over the arrears on the account without success, it had 
also sent out the correct repossession notices to Mrs M. I thought Blue Motor Finance had 
acted reasonably when it repossessed the car.
As this credit agreement shouldnt have gone live due to it being unaffordable for Mrs M, 
then Blue Motor Finance needed to put Mrs M back, as near as possible, in to the 
position she would have been in had she not entered into it.
Id seen Mrs M had use of the car and I thought it was fair that she paid for that usage. 
There wasnt an exact formula for working out what fair usage should be. However, in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, Id thought about the amount of interest that was 
charged under the agreement, the usage Mrs M likely had of the car and what her costs to 
stay mobile might have been had Mrs M not entered into this agreement. In doing so, I 
thought a fair amount Mrs M should pay was £100 for every month she had use of the car. 
It seemed Mrs M had use of the car for around 12 months, therefore, I thought it would be 
fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to retain £1,200.
So, to settle Mrs Ms complaint I asked Blue Motor Finance to do the following:
Return Mrs M deposit together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Calculate the total amount Mrs M had paid under the agreement and deduct 
from that amount £1,200 to cover the usage she had of the car.
Reimburse Mrs M any amounts she had paid over £1,200 together with 
yearly interest at the rate of 8% from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
If Mrs M had not yet paid £1,200 then an appropriate and suitable payment 
plan should be arranged to assist her.
Finally, although the agreement was terminated due to arrears, I didnt think it was fair 
that Mrs M suffered by having adverse information recorded on her credit file for this 
agreement since it shouldnt have been provided to her. I asked Blue Motor Finance to 
remove any adverse information about this account from her credit file.
Both Mrs M and Blue Motor Finance have accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party has asked me to look again at my provisional decision, I have 
reviewed the evidence and the conclusions that I reached. I havent changed my view. For 
the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that Blue Motor Finance didnt carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks on Mrs Ms outgoings and that had it done so it would have found 
that she would have been unable to sustainably repay this credit agreement and it was 
unaffordable for her.
I also think that the settlement set out above is fair and reasonable in these circumstances. I 
still think its fair that Mrs M pays for the usage she had of the car at the rate of £100pm and 
that her deposit is reimbursed with interest. I also think any adverse information about this 
account should be removed from her credit file.
So, for the reasons set out above Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint.Putting things right
Im asking Blue Motor Finance to do the following:
Return Mrs M deposit together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Calculate the total amount Mrs M has paid under the agreement and deduct 
from that amount £1,200 to cover the usage she had of the car.
Reimburse Mrs M any amounts she has paid over £1,200 together with 
yearly interest at the rate of 8% from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
If Mrs M has not yet paid £1,200 then an appropriate and suitable payment 
plan should be arranged to assist her.
   Remove any adverse information about this account from Mrs Ms credit file 
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Im asking Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd to do the following:
Return Mrs M deposit together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Calculate the total amount Mrs M has paid under the agreement and deduct 
from that amount £1,200 to cover the usage she had of the car.
Reimburse Mrs M any amounts over £1,200 together with yearly interest at 
the rate of 8% from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
If Mrs M has not yet paid £1,200 then an appropriate and suitable payment 
plan should be arranged to assist her.
Remove any adverse information about this account from Mrs Ms credit file.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman