DRN-1602835
The complaint
Mr H complains about how U K Insurance Limited ("UKI") dealt with a claim he made under 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H was involved in an accident. He says he'd turned into a yellow box junction and the 
third party driver hit the front of his car. Mr H says the third party driver wasn't paying 
attention and shouldn't have entered the box junction as their exit wasn't clear. 
Mr H made a claim under his policy. UKI decided to settle the claim on a without prejudice 
basis and deal with the third parties' claim for costs. Mr H was unhappy about this, so 
complained to UKI, he didn't think it had considered all of the evidence correctly. 
UKI explained that there were no witnesses on either side who'd been prepared to give 
statements. It hadn't been able to trace or make contact with the witness Mr H had given 
details of. UKI explained that without witnesses, it was difficult to prove Mr H's version of 
events. The damage to the third party's vehicle also supported their version and as Mr H had 
been joining the road from a side road, he had the greater duty of care on the road. UKI also 
explained there was no police report available as one was not taken and the police hadn't 
released any pocketbook entries from the attending officers. 
Mr H remained unhappy with the decision UKI had made, he reiterated the third party was at 
fault as they should not have entered the box junction. Mr H was also unhappy UKI had 
made the decision without taking a formal statement from him. 
As a result of the claim being recorded against him, Mr H's no claim discount (NCD) was 
reduced from nine years to three at his next renewal. Mr H was unhappy with this. UKI also 
incorrectly reduced the NCD entitlement on another policy Mr H has. UKI said its step down 
policy for NCD is explained in the policy document. It realised it had made a mistake in 
reducing the NCD entitlement on the other policy so reinstated this. 
Mr H brought his complaint to this service as he did not agree with how UKI had settled the 
claim. He was also unhappy with how this had impacted his NCD. 
Our investigator looked at the case but didn't think UKI had acted unreasonably. She 
explained the policy allowed UKI to take over and deal with the claim as it saw fit. As there 
were no witnesses available to give statements, and no police report, UKI had to make a 
decision based on the information available. Our investigator thought UKI had acted 
reasonably in doing so. She also confirmed that as a result of the claim, UKI had correctly 
stepped down Mr H's NCD as set out in the policy. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be looked at by an 
ombudsman. In doing so, he said the damage to the vehicles hadn't been reviewed by an 
independent engineer, so he doesn't accept UKI's conclusions that it supports the third party. 
He points out he offered to pay for one to do this but UKI declined. And, that the images he 
supplied of his car immediately after the accident supports his version of events. Mr H also reiterated that UKI had refused to appoint an independent solicitor or investigator to look at 
the claim. 
Mr H also said the claim hadn't been decided on the correct facts as he was in the yellow 
box junction at the time of the accident, not emerging from a side road. He therefore says he 
had right of way and the third party should not have entered the box junction. Mr H is 
adamant the police took notes in their pocket books and that UKI hasn't done enough to 
obtain these. Overall Mr H does not think UKI have carried out a thorough investigation in to 
the accident and there is no convincing and objective evidence which means the claim 
should be settled in the third party's favour. Mr H thinks UKI should have done more to 
defend the claim.
The case has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
How UKI handled Mr H's claim has, in part, been dealt with under a separate complaint 
reference at this service. Therefore I won't be considering in this decision Mr H's points 
about independent professionals being appointed to his claim.
I understand Mr H has very strong views on the accident and how UKI should have dealt 
with his claim. My role here isn't to decide which party was responsible for the accident, what 
I need to decide is if UKI has acted reasonably in reaching its decision to settle the claim and 
meet the third parties' costs. 
I can assure Mr H I have taken into account all of his points and the information he has 
provided, however I will concentrate my decision on what I think are the main points of the 
complaint. I dont intend this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our 
service and my role in it.
Mr H's policy contains a term which allows UKI to take over and deal with the claim as it 
sees fit. Which, may involve it settling the claim on what it sees as the best terms possible. 
In this instance, UKI has settled the claim without admitting liability and paid the third parties 
costs. I don't think UKI has acted unreasonably by doing this, I'll explain why.
Mr H has explained there were independent witnesses to the accident. However, none of 
them have made a statement to the respective insurance companies. So this means 
effectively this claim comes down to being one person's word against another. 
Where this happens insurance companies have to take into account all of the information 
available to them. Mr H provided his version of events when he logged the claim, UKI initially 
said they didn't have notes of this call, but the call was subsequently located and listened to. 
Mr H also completed an accident report form providing details of the accident and a sketch 
of the location. While Mr H hadn't made a further, more detailed statement at the time UKI 
made its decision. I don't think it was unreasonable for UKI to make a decision without it, as 
it had his immediate recollections of what happened on file already.
UKI say it wasn't able to get a report or notes from the police. Mr H has questioned what UKI 
has said here, as he hasn't been provided with evidence of where the police said this and, 
he is adamant notes were taken. I've thought about this, however I've not seen anything 
which leads me to think what this service has been told by UKI, is incorrect. It's isn't always 
the case a police report is made for a road traffic collision, so this isn't unusual in itself. I've seen the correspondence from UKI to the police where it requests the information and pays 
the appropriate fee. I've also seen the further letter where UKI specifically asks for pocket 
book entries. Assuming pocket book entries were made, I can't hold UKI responsible for the 
fact they haven't been released by the police. And, I don't think it was unreasonable for 
UKI to then go on and make its decision without the benefit of that information, given it had 
taken steps to ask for it.
Mr H believes he wasn't responsible for the accident as he had made his turn and was in the 
yellow box junction. He therefore says the third party shouldn't have entered the box junction 
as their exit wasn't clear. However, as mentioned above, there are no independent 
witnesses who can confirm this. The damage to Mr H's car, reported by the engineer, is 
mainly to the bonnet and bumper area and front wing of the driver's side. UKI has concluded 
that the location of this damage could also support the third party's version of events that Mr 
H pulled out in front of them, from a side road, into correctly proceeding traffic. Mr H may 
disagree with this, however it is a conclusion UKI is entitled to reach and there is no 
requirement for it to be verified by an independent engineer.
Overall, I think UKI has acted reasonably in reviewing this claim, it has tried to get hold of the 
witness from the details Mr H provided and it has attempted to get further information from 
the police. UKI also initially defended the claim to the third party however, it made the 
decision to settle once it had reviewed all of the evidence available to it. 
For the reasons explained above, I won't be asking UKI to do anything more here. 
In considering whether UKI has acted reasonably by stepping back Mr H's no claim discount 
(NCD) I've looked at the policy document. This explains, in the event of a claim, a NCD will 
be stepped back if not protected. From reviewing this I can see UKI has correctly stepped 
back Mr H's NCD from nine years to three years. I won't therefore be asking UKI to change 
this. 
I can see UKI resolved the issue with the NCD on Mr H's separate motor insurance policy by 
reinstating the level of NCD and the protection on that, to the next policy renewal. I think this 
was reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Mr H's complaint against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman