DRN-2904564
The complaint
Miss N complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.
What happened
Miss N was provided with nine loans by Lending Stream between September 2013 and 
August 2017. The table below sets out more details regarding the loans.
Loan Date Repaid Amount
1 15/09/2013 28/10/2013 £200.00
2 18/11/2013 08/12/2013 £50.00
3 08/12/2013 06/01/2014 £300.00
4 15/02/2014 26/09/2014 £420.00
5 20/06/2014 29/07/2014 £140.00
6 20/10/2014 03/04/2015 £230.00
7 18/02/2017 25/08/2017 £100.00
8 30/03/2017 sold £660.00
9 03/08/2017 sold £620.00
Miss N says that she was provided with multiple loans that she couldnt afford to repay. She 
says her credit score was very low and she has been stuck in a cycle of debt due to the 
payday loans she received. 
Lending Stream says that before the loans were provided it carried out affordability checks 
and checked her credit commitments against information from a credit reference agency. It 
said in its final response letter that based on its checks the loans were affordable for Miss N.
Miss N didnt agree with Lending Streams response to her complaint and referred her 
complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator thought that the loans fell into two lending chains. The first including loans 1 
to 6 and the second including loans 7 to 9. He didnt think he had enough to say that loans 1 
to 8 shouldnt have been provided but thought that loan 9 shouldnt have been lent. He said 
that by loan 9 proportionate checks would most likely have shown Miss N was having 
problems managing her money. She had an outstanding loan with another short term lender 
in addition to loans 7 and 8 being outstanding. He thought at this stage, Lending Stream 
should have realised that it was unlikely Miss N wouldve been able to sustainably repay this 
loan.
Lending Stream accepted our adjudicators view. Miss N didnt. Miss N said that Lending 
Stream would have seen on her credit file before loans 7,8 and 9 that she had defaulted 
accounts, outstanding balances and a very poor credit score. She thought that loan 8 should 
be upheld as well as loan 9.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss N could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Miss N could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
The early loans in this case were provided before CONC. At that time the relevant guidance 
was provided by the Office of Fair trading (OFT) and this also set out the need to make a 
reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford to meet repayments in a 
sustainable manner. This refers to issues such as being able to the make the repayments 
without undue difficulties throughout the life of the agreement and without having to realise 
security or assets. It then further sets out that without undue difficulty means without having 
to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ns complaint.I have considered when the loans were provided and repaid. Having done so, I note there 
was a break in the lending to Miss N of around 22 months between loans 6 and 7. Given this 
break I think it reasonable that loans 7, 8 and 9 are considered as part of a new lending 
chain.
Before the loans were provided, information about Miss Ns income and expenses was 
gathered and credit information checked. Having considered the information gathered and 
the loan repayment amounts compared to Miss Ns declared income I find that these checks 
were reasonable for loans 1 to 3. 
Before loan 4 was provided I think that further checks should have taken place to ensure that 
continuing to lend to Miss N was sustainably affordable. This was Miss Ns fourth loan in five 
months and while she had repaid the previous loans the amounts being borrowed were 
increasing and so I think further checks should have taken place before this and loans 5 and 
6 were provided. However, I havent been provided with anything that shows had further 
checks taken place then these loans would have been found to have been unaffordable for 
Miss N. Therefore, I do not find I have enough evidence to uphold this complaint regarding 
the loans in the first lending chain.
The second lending chain starts with loan 7. This was for £100. Before this loan was 
provided information about Miss Ns income and expenses was gathered. As this was the 
first loan in the lending chain and considering the repayment amounts compared to Miss Ns 
declared income, I find the checks carried out were proportionate. As these didnt raise any 
concerns that meant further verification was needed and the information suggested the loan 
was affordable, I do not find I can say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Loan 8 was the second in the lending chain and was for a much larger amount, £660. It was 
repayable over six monthly instalments. At the time of this loan, the previous loan was still 
outstanding. Therefore, I have considered the combined repayment amounts compared to 
Miss Ns income. Having done so and having considered the other information provided 
through the credit check and noting Miss Ns disposable income, I find the checks carried out 
at this time were reasonable. As these didnt raise concerns about the affordability of the 
loan, I do not find that I can say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
When loan 9 was provided, Miss N still had loans 7 and 8 outstanding. This loan was for 
£620 and given her recent borrowing I think it would have been reasonable that Lending 
Stream would have carried out further cehcks to ensure the lending was sustainably 
affordable for Miss N. Had this happened, it would have realised that Miss N had loans 
outstanding with other short term providers, as well as the loans outstanding with Lending 
Stream. This showed that she was struggling to manage her money and so I do not think 
that this loan should have been considered sustainably affordable for Miss N.
Overall, I uphold this complaint in regard to loan 9.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it stopped lending to Miss N after loan 8, as Im satisfied it 
ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss N may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss N in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss N would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Lending Stream]s liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
As I am upholding this complaint in regard to loan 9, Lending Stream should, if it hasnt 
already, buy back loan 9. If this isnt possible it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below.
On the understanding that loan 9 still has an outstanding balance, Lending Stream 
should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance and treat any 
repayments made by Miss N as though they had been repayments of the principal. If 
this results in Miss N having made overpayments then these should be refunded with 
8% simple interest* calculated from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to 
the date the complaint is settled. 
If there is still an outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss N. 
Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ns credit 
file in relation to loan 9.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to deduct tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream should give Miss N a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan 9. Gain Credit LLC trading 
as Lending Stream should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman