DRN-3301131
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard lent irresponsibly when it 
approved his credit card application. 
What happened
In 2018 Mr K applied for a credit card with Barclaycard. Mr Ks application said he was 
employed and gave a net income of about £2,200. The application also said Mr K was a 
tenant and included information about monthly living expenses - including rent, utility, bills 
and credit commitments. 
Barclaycard says it applied its lending criteria to the information Mr K provided and approved 
his credit card application with a limit of £800. 
In 2019 Mr Ks credit card fell into arrears and was later sold to a third party. 
Mr K complained that Barclaycard had lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit card. 
Barclaycard sent Mr K a final response but didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. Mr K went 
on to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and it was passed to an 
investigator. They thought Barclaycard had dealt with Mr Ks complaint fairly and didnt ask it 
to do anything else. Mr K asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Barclaycard had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr K could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various 
factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Ive looked at Mr Ks application and can see Barclaycard considered the income he 
declared as well as regular outgoings including rent, utilities, living expenses and credit 
commitments. The figures noted in the application indicate Mr K could afford to sustainably 
support a credit card with Barclaycard. Barclaycard also looked at Mr Ks credit file to get a 
picture of his regular commitments. Ive looked at copies of Mr Ks credit file provided by 
both parties. I didnt find anything that wouldve indicated to Barclaycard that Mr K was 
struggling or experiencing financial difficulties at the time of his application. Im satisfied 
Barclaycard took Mr Ks credit commitments into account when it considered his application. 
Ive reviewed the information Barclaycard had available at the time of Mr Ks application and 
Im satisfied it did complete proportionate checks that showed the credit card would be 
sustainable. Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but I havent found that Barclaycard lent 
irresponsibly when it approved his credit card. As Im satisfied Barclaycard dealt with Mr Ks 
complaint Im not telling it to take any further action. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman