DRN-2881810
The complaint
Mr T complains that Metro Bank PLC took money out of his account after he became caught 
up in a scam.   
What happened
The circumstances of this case are well known to both parties and so I wont set them out 
extensively here.
Mr T was caught up in whats often referred to as a money mule scam. He believed he was 
carrying out legitimate work for a third party when he was, in fact, used to transfer funds 
fraudulently obtained from someone else. Metro accepts that Mr T was innocently caught up 
in a scam and had no malicious or fraudulent involvement.
Mr T received £4,995 into his account and he believed this was related to the work he was 
carrying out. He was instructed, by his employer, to send the majority of the funds on to a 
designated account, and keep £895 for his wages. But this money had actually come from 
the victim of a scam.
Metro received notification that the credit to Mr Ts account had been made as a result of 
fraud. It proceeded to debit Mr Ts account as a result, sending all remaining funds (totalling 
£2,286.29) back to the originating account. Metro said the terms and conditions of Mr Ts 
account allowed it to do so, referring to section 8.2: 
If we are made aware that a payment into your account may be fraudulent or a mistake, we 
may take or recover this payment from you. This may happen even if:
 the funds are included in the balance of your account;
 you have used them to make a payment; or
 you have transferred or withdrawn all or part of the funds.
Mr T complained because he had been duped himself and suffered a loss as a result. He 
told Metro that some of the money it had taken was his, and not proceeds of the scam. But 
Metro said it had acted fairly.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ts complaint and recommended it be upheld. He 
acknowledged that the account terms and conditions, on the face of it, did allow for Metro to 
debit the account. But he said the term, when applied in Mr Ts circumstances, could be 
considered unfair under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and so ought not apply. He 
said it created a significant imbalance in the parties' rights and obligations under the 
contract to the detriment of the consumer.
He acknowledged that Metro might fairly rely on this term where, for example, there was 
sufficient evidence to show the account holder was a fraudster. But said that wasnt the case 
here. Instead, Mr T was also the victim of a scam.
Our investigator said it was fair for Metro to have returned any funds that led to Mr T unfairly 
benefitting from the scam, that being the £895 in wages. But he found the bank acted 
unfairly in sending back money that was otherwise Mr Ts.
Metro objected stating that it had returned the funds as it had been notified of a scam. And it 
had sent the remaining balance from, Mr Ts account as the money was not his but the 
sending victims. It said Claytons Case, or the general rule of first in, first out dictated as 
much. 
Our investigator explained that Claytons Case didnt engage in this situation because the 
bank ought not have debited Mr Ts account at all, save for the wages paid into Mr Ts 
account. 
Because Metro disagreed the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding the complaint and for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. I find his 
explanation of the outcome to be fair and thorough.
A payment can only be made out of an account if it is authorised by the account holder, as 
per the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs). If a transaction is not properly 
consented to by the account holder, with the proper form and procedure completed in doing 
so, it is to be treated as unauthorised.
Metro has sought to rely on the account terms and conditions to overcome the PSRs. I dont 
find it can fairly and reasonably do so in this case. And Im in agreement with the investigator 
that the term Metro has relied on could be considered as unfair under the CRA, when 
applied in this way and where the account holder has been the innocent victim of a scam.
The effect of this is that Metro hasnt established that it could debit Mr Ts account and so 
shouldnt have done so. And it is for this reason that Claytons Case doesnt apply. For it to 
do so there must be a valid claim on the funds. There isnt one here and so it doesnt 
engage.
I do find that Mr T shouldnt benefit from the scam he was caught up in, which is why it 
remains fair that the £895 in wages he received can be deducted from his account. But 
Metro should return the money that was otherwise Mr Ts.
Putting things right
Metro bank should now:
pay Mr T £1,391.29 (representing the sum debited from his account £2,286.29, 
minus the wages at £895);
pay interest on that amount at 8% simple from the date Metro debited his account to 
the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Metro bank PLC.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman