DRN-3248244
The complaint
Mr R complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 November 2021 in which I described 
what had happened as follows: 
A used car was supplied to Mr R under a hire purchase agreement with Specialist 
Motor Finance that he electronically signed in January 2020. A gearbox warning light 
came on in February 2020 so Mr R says that he took the car to a garage which 
carried out a full service and confirmed that the warning light was on but it was 
unable to confirm the fault.
Mr R took the car to another garage in June 2020 which carried out a diagnostic 
check and confirmed an issue with the gearbox oil pump. He says that hes paid 
more than £700 for repairs to the car but no attempt has been made to repair the 
gearbox. Hes received £500 under the cars warranty but he says that he wasnt 
made aware when the car was supplied to him that the warranty was limited to £500.
Mr R complained to Specialist Motor Finance but it said that its attempts to speak 
with him had been unsuccessful and it had received no further contact from him so it 
closed his complaint. Mr R contacted it again and complained to this service.
Specialist Motor Finance arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent 
expert in August 2021 but the cars battery was flat because it hadnt been used for 
some months. Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be 
upheld. She said that she hadnt seen anything to suggest that the fault with the 
gearbox wasnt a result of wear and tear, taking into consideration the age and 
mileage on the car. She said that it wouldnt be fair to hold Specialist Motor Finance 
responsible for that. 
Mr R has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Hes 
responded in detail and says, in summary, that:
the cars mileage was 90,896 when it was supplied to him and he expected it 
to be of a quality that was consistent with its age and the price paid and to be 
roadworthy and reliable;
the initial diagnostics found a major gearbox fault when the cars mileage was 
91,784  so hed only used it to drive 888 miles;
the earliest that he can prove the warning light was apparent on the car was 
in early March 2020 so more than 30 days after the car was supplied to him, 
but within the first six months so he would reasonably expect to be able to 
request a repair or a replacement car;
he was happy to give the dealer the opportunity to fix the fault but as he lives 
over 100 miles away from the dealer it was agreed that it would be done 
through the warranty;
he paid £456.12 for the injectors to be resealed and £114 for an oil leak and 
the warranty provider reimbursed £500 to him;
he told Specialist Motor Finance that the cars MOT certificate was due to 
expire in October 2020 and, without the gearbox resolution, the car would 
have to remain offroad but he received no response;
the dealer offered to buy the car back from him for £13,500 in July 2021 but 
he says that the car isnt his to sell;
his complaint isnt just for the fault with the car but the lack of communication 
and resolution of this matter during which time the car hasnt been moved; 
and
Specialist Motor Finance could have inspected the car to prove the fault 
wasnt present but didnt do so until 18 months later by when the car had 
been static for so long that the inspection achieved nothing.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision as follows:
Specialist Motor Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring 
that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr R. Whether or not it was 
of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the 
age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was 
supplied to Mr R was about eight years old, had been driven for more than 90,880 
miles and had a price of £14,995.  Satisfactory quality also covers durability which 
means that the components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable 
amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of 
factors.
The car was supplied to Mr R in January 2020 and he says that about a month later 
the gearbox warning light came on. The dealer had provided him with a warranty for 
the car so he contacted the warranty company and says that he was advised to 
arrange for the car to be inspected and to provide a quote for any required repairs. 
Mr R says that the dealer told him that the car had been serviced before it was 
supplied to him.
The car was inspected by a garage in March 2020 and Mr R says that he was told 
that it hadnt been serviced so he paid £445.85 for a full service and other work. The 
invoice recorded the cars mileage as 91,909 (so about 1,000 miles more than when 
the car was supplied to him) and says: Please note warning on dash depicting issue 
with gearbox, garages equipment cannot communicate with vehicle and Mr R says 
that it also highlighted many other issues with the car.
Mr R says that he contacted the warranty company but wasnt able to progress this 
further because of the government imposed restrictions in response to the pandemic. 
He took the car to another garage in June 2020 and it carried out a diagnostic check 
which identified that the cars injectors needed to be resealed, it required a gearbox 
oil pump and gearbox oil and the sump washer was leaking. Mr R paid £646.13 to 
the garage for the diagnostic check, the injectors to be resealed, and to replace the 
sump washer and oil. Mr R made a claim to the warranty company but it said that the 
warranty was limited to £500 so it paid him £500. Mr R says that he hadnt been told 
about that limit.He complained to Specialist Motor Finance but it said that its attempts to speak with 
him had been unsuccessful and it had received no further contact from him so it 
closed his complaint. Mr R contacted it again it arranged for the car to be inspected 
by an independent expert in August 2021. The independent experts report 
concluded: 
This vehicle could not have been in its current condition at point of purchase 
in January 2020, as the vehicle cannot be driven in its current condition 
because the battery is completely flat, and the electrical system has shut 
down. A replacement battery will be necessary, and the vehicles electrical 
system will need to be checked by a competent auto electrician before 
making an attempt to start it again. As the vehicle was not presented in a 
suitable condition, the inspection was concluded with the engineer having 
been unable to confirm the vehicle owners concerns with reference to the 
faulty injectors, faulty oil pump and faulty transmission. This vehicle will need 
to be returned to a serviceable condition to allow for further investigation into 
the reported faults, and in our opinion, the best way forward is to have the 
battery replaced in the first instance to ascertain if the vehicle will start. The 
cars battery was flat because it hadnt been used for some months.
Mr R says that the gearbox warning light came on about a month after the car was 
supplied to him, a garage confirmed in March 2020 that the gearbox warning light 
was on and a second garage identified in June 2020 that the car had a number of 
faults including that it required a gearbox oil pump. The warranty company has paid 
Mr R £500 but the gearbox oil pump hasnt been repaired. When the car was 
inspected in August 2021 it couldnt be started and the independent expert said that it 
hadnt been used for some months. 
I dont consider that its reasonable to expect that a car would develop a gearbox 
fault only about a month after it was supplied and I consider it to be more likely than 
not that there were faults with the car when it was supplied to Mr R. I dont consider 
that the car was as durable as it was reasonable for Mr R to expect it to be or that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him.
When it was inspected in August 2021, the car hadnt been driven for some months 
and the independent expert said that a replacement battery would be required and 
that the cars electrical system would need to be checked before the car was started. 
Only then would an assessment of the repairs required to the gearbox be possible. 
Given the age and mileage of the car, the time since it was last used and that I 
consider that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr R, I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Specialist Motor Finance to 
allow Mr R to reject the car.
I find that Specialist Motor Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and 
arrange for the car to be collected from Mr R both at no cost to him. The hire 
purchase agreement shows that Mr R didnt pay a deposit of the car. Mr R that he 
stopped using the car in October 2020 and I find that Specialist Motor Finance should 
refund to him any monthly payments that hes made under the agreement since then, 
with interest. I consider that its fair and reasonable for it to keep the monthly 
payments that he made before then as payment for the use that hes had from the 
car. I find that it should also remove any information about the hire purchase 
agreement that its recorded on Mr Rs credit file. 
Mr R paid £445.85 to a garage in March 2020 and £646.13 to another garage in June 
2020. He received £500 from the warranty company which reduced his contribution for the June 2020 repairs to £146.13. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Specialist Motor Finance to pay £445.85 and £146.13 to Mr R to reimburse him for 
those costs, with interest. 
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr R. Hes had to 
take the car to two garages for issues to be diagnosed, hes been involved in 
communications with the warranty company and hes had the car but not used in 
since October 2020. I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances 
for Specialist Motor Finance to pay him £300 to compensate him for that distress and 
inconvenience.
Subject to any further representations by Mr R or Specialist Motor Finance, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. Neither Mr R nor Specialist Motor 
Finance has responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr R nor Specialist Motor Finance has responded to my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to change my provisional findings. 
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Specialist Motor 
Finance to take the actions described in my provisional decision and as set out below.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and I order Specialist Motor Finance Limited to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mr R  
both at no cost to him. 
2. Refund to Mr R the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement for the 
period since he stopped using the car in October 2020.
3. Pay £445.85 and £146.13 to Mr R to reimburse him for the repair and other costs that 
hes incurred.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Rs credit file. 
6. Pay £300 to Mr R to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Specialist Motor Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. Specialist Motor Finance must give Mr R a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman