DRN-1192405
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that they have not been receiving interest on their bank account 
with Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D opened a joint 123 current account with Santander. If activity on the account 
met the terms and conditions, interest would be paid on the account balance. Seven years 
after opening the account, Mr D realised that no interest had been paid on the account. This 
was because they had not met the condition to pay £500 into the account each month. They 
thought Santander had many opportunities to tell them they werent being paid interest, as 
Mr D spoke to Santander about his account several times each year.
Mr and Mrs D complained to Santander. Santander replied that they had not been meeting 
the terms and conditions of the account to receive interest. In order to be paid monthly 
interest, they needed to credit the account with £500 per month and have two active direct 
debits. It said that when a customer opens an account, they agree to the terms and 
conditions. If they paid in £500 per month and had two active direct debits, they would 
receive interest in future.
Mr and Mrs D complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
thought that the bank statements made it clear that they werent receiving interest on the 
account.
As Mr and Mrs D did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander produced monthly bank statements for Mr and Mrs Ds account. On the front of 
the bank statements it said:
Ensure you switch all eligible Direct Debits to your 123 Current Account. To receive 
cashback and interest you must pay in at least £500 a month and have a minimum of two 
active Direct Debits. There is a monthly account fee which is shown on your statement. For 
cashback, household bills must be paid by Direct Debit. If you find the account is no longer 
suitable, you can transfer to another Santander account or close it at any time.
I am therefore satisfied that the requirement to pay in £500 was clear and that there were 
regular reminders of the requirements that needed to be met to earn interest.
The front page of each statement also provided a summary of the amount of interest paid on 
the account. Mr D said that he received the bank statements for the account, but didnt read 
them because he had other sources of information about the account. This included 
checking his balance each time he spoke to Santander on the phone and receiving email 
alerts whenever his card was used.In a phone call to Santander, the call handler told Mr D that he could sign up to text or emails 
alerts that would let him know if his balance dropped below a certain amount. Mr D said that 
he didnt need this as he got a monthly statement so was more than aware of his balance. 
Mr D therefore seemed to read his bank statements, even if only very briefly. 
Although I can understand that Mr D might have thought it wasnt necessary to read his bank 
statements in detail, it was still information that Santander provided him with to help him 
manage his account. The statements provided a summary of the transactions for the 
previous month and any related charges, interest or cashback. Mr D was therefore provided 
with information every month on what interest, if any, he had earned on the account, even if 
he chose not to read it.
On the basis of the above, I am satisfied that by looking at his bank statements, Mr D could 
have seen that he wasnt receiving interest and the reason for this. He could then have 
spoken to Santander about this and taken steps to meet the terms and conditions of the 
account.
Mr D has also said that he thinks Santander should have told him he wasnt receiving 
interest as he regularly spoke to them on the phone about his account. I have thought about 
this. I have also listened to a number of phone calls between Mr D and Santander. These 
covered a range of issues. The main focus of these conversations was often other accounts 
that he had with Santander rather than this 123 current account.
During each call, the call handlers also asked Mr D if he wanted to discuss anything else and 
each time he would raise a further issue or say that he had nothing more to discuss. They 
therefore gave Mr D the opportunity to raise any issues and dealt with any that he raised.
When Mr D spoke to them about the 123 current account, this was normally to check the 
balance or to transfer money into the account. In the phone call where Mr D was told that he 
wasnt getting interest on the 123 current account, he had phoned to discuss whether there 
was another type of 123 account that might be better for him. As a result, the call handler 
looked at the 123 current account in more detail and saw that £500 wasnt being paid into 
the account each month. The call handler then explained the terms and conditions of the 
account that needed to be met in order to earn interest on the account.
Based on all of the above, I dont think Santander have done anything wrong. I think Mr D 
was provided with regular information about his account and the terms and conditions. I also 
dont think it would be reasonable to expect Santander to look through the details of each of 
Mr Ds accounts when he phoned them, particularly as he appeared to be actively managing 
his accounts in the way that he wanted. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman