DRN-3477945
The complaint
Mr F complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (Argos) unfairly closed his 
store card account.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr F tried to make a purchase using his Argos store card. The transaction 
was declined, so Mr F contacted Argos to find out what had happened. 
Argos told Mr F that it had closed his store card account because he hadnt made a 
purchase since September 2020. It also said that in July 2021 it had sent him notice of this in 
text messages. Mr F said he never received those messages, so he complained to Argos.
Argos looked into Mr Fs complaint and found out that it had the wrong phone number for 
Mr F. Mr F said that when he took out the card in store, he read out his phone number and 
the store assistant wrote it down, but had made a mistake in doing so. Argos said it couldnt 
establish whether the store assistant had made a mistake, but it upheld the complaint and 
offered Mr F £20 compensation.
Mr F didnt accept the offer and referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint and recommended that it should be upheld. He said Argos hadnt 
been able to demonstrate it had complied with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Argos didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, and told us that the terms and 
conditions of the account had changed in September 2020, so the complaint has now come 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
In its final response to Mr Fs complaint, Argos said it had closed his account in accordance 
with the terms and conditions, specifically section 10 which it said allowed it to close the 
account if it has been dormant, meaning there have been no purchases or there has been 
no balance owed to us for at least 6 months. However, the terms and conditions Argos sent 
to us didnt include this term at Section 10, or anywhere else.
So our investigator asked Argos if the terms and conditions it had sent to us were correct or 
whether there were different terms and conditions in place when Mr F took out his store card 
agreement.
Argos responded to our investigator saying the terms and conditions it had sent to us were 
the ones provided to Mr F at the point of sale and were still current. It said that there was a 
term at Section 10.2 which allowed Argos to give at least two months notice in writing 
before ending the agreement.
I accept that Section 10.2 does give Argos the right to close an account by giving two 
months notice in writing, but it doesnt refer to dormancy of the account which Argos says 
was the reason Mr Fs account was closed. 
Argos then told us it had moved its entire customer base over to new terms and conditions in 
September 2020  terms and conditions that specifically mention it can close the account if 
the account remains dormant.
But Im not persuaded that Mr F was made aware of the new terms of his account or the 
reason for the closure of his account. Firstly, the messages giving notice of closure were 
never received by Mr F as they were sent to the wrong number  so he couldnt possibly 
have taken steps to rectify the issue and keep his account open. And secondly, when our 
investigator asked Argos for evidence that it had sent Mr F the new terms and conditions of 
the account which specifically refer to dormancy, no such information was provided. So Ive 
not seen enough evidence to satisfy me that Mr F knew his account would be closed if he 
didnt make a purchase.
Whilst the new terms and conditions Argos has sent us do appear to allow Argos to 
terminate the agreement if the account is dormant, I still dont think in this case its fair for 
Mr Fs account to remain closed. This is because from what Ive seen, I think its more likely 
that Argos made a mistake in noting down Mr Fs number, rather than Mr F providing his 
own number incorrectly. So Argos should put Mr F back in the position he wouldve been in 
had Argos not made that error. 
And I consider that if Mr F had received the text messages, that wouldve given him an 
opportunity to make purchases using the card to keep his account open, and this wouldve 
also saved him the embarrassment of having a card transaction declined in store. So Im 
satisfied that by reopening Mr Fs account, Argos will be putting Mr F back in the position he 
wouldve been in had the error not occurred.
I also think that Argos should put matters right for Mr F by ensuring it gives him the correct 
terms and conditions of his account and ensuring that it holds the correct contact details for 
him. It should also compensate Mr F fairly for the embarrassment of having his card declined 
in store, due to an error that was most likely caused by Argos. And Im satisfied that £50 
compensation in this case is reasonable due to the inconvenience caused to Mr F by having 
his card declined in store and his account closed unfairly.
Putting things right
Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Financial Services should now:
- reopen Mr Fs store card account
- provide Mr F with a copy of the correct terms and conditions for his account
- ensure it now holds the correct contact details for Mr F
- pay Mr F an additional £30 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this 
issue has caused, bringing the total amount of compensation to £50.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as 
Argos Financial Services to put things right as Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman