DRN-2531588
The complaint
Mr C complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plcs settled of his motor insurance claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I can see Mr C first contacted AXA around April 2017 regarding the claim. In 
October 2019 AXA decided to settle the claim by paying Mr C a cash settlement. 
This isnt unusual, and as the claim had been going on for some time, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for them to do this
Mr C said he incurred further costs when he got the car repaired. Although I can 
appreciate why this might be frustrating, he accepted the settlement offered by 
AXA. Mr C said AXA didnt make it clear the payment was a final settlement  
and he wouldnt have accepted this amount if he was aware of this. But I can see 
from emails between AXA and Mr C in October 2019, discussing the payment, 
AXA say:
You are being offered 3009.16 euro as a Cash in Lieu of Repairs.
In other words, due to the fact that the damage to your vehicle is over 2 years old 
there is a risk of unrelated issues to your vehicle. Therefore, we are unable to 
authorise any repairs.
We have therefore offered a one-off cash lump sum payment and any decisions 
regarding repairs and what you do with the money is left to you. AXA will not and 
cannot be involved in authorising repairs with any garage.
To be clear you are being offered a cash settlement to bring this matter to a 
prompt and amicable conclusion.
So Im satisfied they did make it clear the payment was to settle the claim
Mr C is also unhappy with AXAs handling of his claim. From looking all available 
information I can see there were times, particularly at the beginning of the claim 
where AXA couldve responded to Mr C faster or done more. And Mr C chased 
AXA about this in October 2017
Considering everything available to me, I think its reasonable AXA pay Mr C 
£100 compensation as I think this fairly reflects the inconvenience, he has been 
caused
My final decision
My final decision Is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr C £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman