DRN-3077144
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was charged an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) by Barclays Bank 
UK PLC (Barclays) when he redeemed his mortgage.
What happened
Mr R had a mortgage with Barclays. In August 2019, Barclays offered a mortgage of 
£207,459. The mortgage offer was for two fixed rate loans of £130,000 (on an interest rate of 
2.14%) and £77,459 (on an interest rate of 2.05%). Both rates were fixed until 31 October 
2024. Mr R sold his house in 2021. He was charged an ERC of over £6,000 by Barclays.
Mr R complained. He said the charge was unfair. Hed been made redundant and was doing 
the sensible thing by selling his house  and hadnt budgeted on the ERC being charged. He 
said that Barclays dealt with his complaint very quickly and without any real consideration as 
to his circumstances.
Barclays discussed Mr Rs complaint on the phone and considered theyd resolved his 
complaint.
Mr R brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclays could charge the ERC as it 
was in the terms and conditions of the mortgage offer document that Mr R had agreed to in 
August 2019  this included the ERC charge of 3% on any borrowing that was repaid before 
31 October 2024. There was a cost to Barclays of providing a fixed rate loan, and if the term 
of the fixed rate was broken, they incurred a cost  which the ERC paid for. The ERC clause 
was clear in the mortgage contract.
Mr R asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R argues that the ERC was unfair  as he was having to sell his house as hed been 
made redundant. I have every sympathy for the situation Mr R found himself in, and the 
difficult times he mustve gone through  as a result he took the decision to sell his house.
Ive looked at Barclays offer of a mortgage dated 28 August 2019. This does say clearly  
that if the mortgage, or any part of it was repaid before 31 October 2024  then an ERC of 
3% on the amount redeemed would apply. It said:
You have the right to repay this loan early, either fully or partially. Early repayment 
charges are payable on this mortgage until 31 October 2024 as follows.
Early repayment charges on your mortgage
Loan Amount Basis of charge Cash examples  
(amount you would 
repay) 1/09/2019 to 
30/04/2024
£130,000 3% of the amount 
repaid£3,900.00
£77,459.22 3% of the amount 
repaid£2,324.00
Total £6,224.00
Mortgage Exit fee, which is £80.00, is payable if you repay the mortgage in full.
Should you repay your mortgage, the maximum charge you could pay is £6,224.00 plus a 
Mortgage Exit fee which is £80.00
So  I think the contract was clear there would be an ERC to pay if Mr R redeemed the 
mortgage before the end of the fixed rate period. 
Its not our role to tell Barclays what its charges are, or should be,  thats their own decision 
to make. But it might help if I explain why theres an ERC in a mortgage contract. Barclays 
charge an ERC because  there is a cost to them in setting up the fixed rate loan in the first 
place. And  if a customer breaks the fixed rate borrowing (by repaying it early)  then 
Barclays must pay a cost also. 
Mr R says that the ERC wasnt fair because he was with them previously on a standard 
variable rate. It looks like that was the case  but I dont think I can ask Barclays to refund 
the ERC because of that  because the mortgage contract he agreed to in 2019 was clear. 
Mr R also says it was unfair because hed been made redundant. I dont think that, of itself, 
means that Barclays shouldnt charge the fee. But  if Mr R is suffering from financial 
difficulty, then he should speak to the lenders hes borrowed money from. They have an 
obligation to consider Mr Rs circumstances and see if theyre able to help him with, for 
example, a payment plan  involving lower payments, or lower interest rates - to help him 
get through for a period. But the agreement to these are down to each of Mr Rs lenders.
Mr R says that Barclays didnt listen to his complaint and reached a conclusion quickly. I can 
see that they dealt with his complaint on the phone. Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
this means they didnt treat his complaint seriously.  I think its just that Barclays feel that 
sometimes  its better to deal with matters like this one on the phone.
And so  having looked at the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint, I dont think that Barclays 
acted unfairly. And therefore, I wont be asking them to do anymore here. 
(continued)
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman