DRN-2661791
The complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In August 1987, during a meeting at a Halifax branch, Mr P took out an unsecured personal 
loan. He also bought PPI in order to protect his loan repayments.
Mr P mainly complained to Halifax that he didnt consent to the policy. Halifax didnt uphold 
his complaint and so Mr P brought his complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
and hes asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Id like to reassure Mr P that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. 
So Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr P to remember exactly what was discussed at the 
time as this sale took place so long ago. This means that what he says isnt enough on its 
own for me to be able to uphold his mis-sale complaint. I must make my decision based on 
what I think is likely to have happened taking into account all the information thats available, 
what the parties have told me and also thinking about what we know about these types of 
sales at that time. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Halifax gave Mr P a choice about taking out the 
PPI. 
In order to be able to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr P wasnt 
given a fair choice about taking out PPI or that the policy was added to his loan account 
without his knowledge or consent. 
The way that information about the PPI is set out in the loan agreement presents the policy 
in such a way that I cant fairly say that Halifax didnt make it clear that it was an optional 
feature or that Mr P didnt make an informed choice to have it.
I say this because on the loan agreement he signed there were Yes and No PPI options. 
Mr P couldve ticked the No box if he hadnt wanted to take out PPI. 
I can see that the Yes box is ticked on Mr Ps signed agreement to say he wanted PPI. 
So I think Halifax made Mr P aware that the PPI was optional and that it was added to his 
loan account when he chose to have it. 
Halifax doesnt any longer have a policy document from the date Mr P took out PPI. But it 
has provided a policy document it sold with similar loans which was in use the month after 
Mr Ps loan started. I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that Mr P took out 
wouldve had similar terms and conditions and so its reasonable for me to rely on this 
information.
Halifax advised Mr P to take out the policy but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Ive seen nothing to make me think that Mr P wasnt eligible for the policy. 
Mr P said he couldve relied on getting at least six months sick pay from his employer and 
he had some savings. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of work benefits for longer  likely 
up to 24 months if he couldnt work because of accident or sickness. 
And the policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim if Mr P lost his job 
unexpectedly and found himself out of work.
So the policy provided Mr P with significantly better cover than he wouldve had if hed just 
been relying on his employer.
There was no guarantee when Mr P took out this loan that he would always have savings to 
rely on because everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And, if Mr P didnt put all his money towards keeping down the cost of the loan but borrowed 
instead, perhaps because he preferred to keep savings intact to provide financial security or 
to spend on other things, then I think he wouldve valued the protection and this extra benefit 
that having PPI offered. With PPI, Mr P could be sure hed be able to pay the loan monthly 
repayments without needing to break into savings.  
So I think the policy was suitable for Mr P.
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it doesnt appear likely that he was affected by any of the main policy 
exclusions or limitations. So, even if Mr P wasnt made aware of these, I dont think this 
wouldve made any difference to his decision to take out PPI. 
The loan agreement Mr P signed sets out what the policy would cost each month, as well as 
showing the monthly loan repayment, and the total payment hed have to make each month. 
So Halifax made Mr P aware of how much hed be paying. Ive seen nothing to suggest the 
policy was unaffordable for Mr P  and as he took it out when he didnt have to it seems he 
was happy to pay for it at the time. 
Overall, I think it unlikely that having better information wouldve put Mr P off taking out the 
policy. This means I dont find that hes lost out as a result of anything Halifax did wrong.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman