DRN-2952776
The complaint
Mr C complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) incorrectly sent him an 
invoice for £60 related to his HomeCare cover.
What happened
In late January 2021, Mr C received an invoice from British Gas for £60 related to his 
HomeCare emergency cover. Mr C said he hadnt used the service since June 2020, so he 
called British Gas immediately to query the matter. During this call, Mr C raised a complaint. 
He says he also asked for matters regarding the invoice to be put on hold whilst his 
complaint was investigated, but he said this was refused by the adviser he spoke with, and 
instead he was encouraged to make a payment on the call.
In the weeks following this, Mr C says he received a reminder letter dated 17 February 2021 
asking him to make a payment. Mr C said the letter outlined that if payment wasnt made in 
seven days, the matter would be forwarded onto a debt collection company. But Mr C says 
he didnt receive the letter until 25 February 2021. He says this caused him extreme stress 
and anxiety, particularly as this was during a time where he was experiencing financial 
worries and wasnt in a position to make the payment. 
Mr C called British Gas on 25 February 2021. During the call, British Gas cancelled the 
invoice and updated its records accordingly. It apologised for the worry caused and paid 
Mr C £20 compensation. Mr C didnt think the compensation awarded fully reflected the 
impact the matter had on him and said he had been caused sleepless nights as a result of 
British Gass actions. So, he brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators reviewed matters. She explained that the invoice related to some 
works carried out in 2020, however any charges related to these works had been cancelled 
previously. So, the invoice had indeed been generated in error. In reviewing British Gass 
actions following this, she explained that matters were resolved on the same day Mr C called 
British Gas back, on 25 February 2021.
She acknowledged the stress the matter wouldve caused Mr C, but also pointed out that he 
had said he was aware that the invoice was related to a call-out in 2020 that British Gas had 
already agreed to waive previously.
British Gas didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr C did. In summary, he felt that an 
additional £100 compensation should be paid to put matters right. As an agreement couldnt 
be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that British Gas incorrectly asked Mr C to pay for works that had been 
carried out some months before, that it had already agreed to not charge him for. Mr C said 
this mistake, and the subsequent reminder to make a payment, caused him stress, anxiety 
and sleepless nights. I was sorry to hear about how the matter affected Mr C and can 
understand how receiving an invoice, many months after works had been carried out, would 
cause him worry. 
As its not disputed that British Gas made an error, my role here is to consider whether I 
think it has taken reasonable steps to put the matter right. British Gas hasnt been able to 
provide a recording of its call with Mr C from January 2021, when he initially received the 
invoice. As I understand it, the invoice disputes team wasnt available to discuss matters with 
Mr C as the call was made later in the evening. Its unfortunate that the relevant team was 
unavailable when Mr C initially called, and I appreciate this wouldve been frustrating for him. 
As I understand it, Mr C didnt call British Gas again until a few weeks later, in 
February 2021. Ive considered that when Mr C did call back, he was able to speak with the 
relevant team about the invoice dispute. During this call, the adviser Mr C spoke with 
immediately cancelled the invoice and updated the relevant records. British Gas apologised 
for the stress and worry caused to Mr C as a result of the error and paid him £20 
compensation.
Having thought about this carefully, I think British Gas has done enough in the 
circumstances to put matters right. I say this because British Gas immediately cancelled the 
invoice during the phone call in February 2021. And, I can see that Mr C hasnt been 
affected financially as a result of the initial mistake. British Gas also apologised, paid 
Mr C compensation and has agreed to provide feedback to the adviser Mr C originally spoke 
with. 
Its important to keep in mind that our service isnt a regulator, and our role isnt to punish a 
business for its mistakes. So overall, whilst I acknowledge that the mistake wouldve caused 
Mr C worry, I think British Gas took reasonable steps to put matters right. In light of this, I 
wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
British Gas Insurance Limited doesnt need to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman