DRN-2761020
The complaint
Miss R says Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk lent to her 
irresponsibly. She says that she couldnt afford to repay the lending and she needed to 
borrow further to make the repayments. She says Moneyboat.co.uk should have found out 
about this and not lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Moneyboat.co.uk provided to Miss R in October 
2019. Miss R borrowed £750. This was due to be repaid in six monthly instalments of £208. I 
understand Miss R hasnt fully repaid this loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because he thought that Moneyboat.co.uk had 
information that showed Miss R was in financial difficulty. And better checks wouldve 
confirmed this.
Moneyboat.co.uk disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that, whilst the credit 
reference agency information did show Miss R had other financial commitments, it wouldnt 
be practical to fully review all of the information it had before approving this loan. This was 
partly due to its automated processes, and partly as it said its consumers require a quick 
decision about lending. And it said that some of the existing commitments shown on the 
credit report where due to have finished before the repayments to the Moneyboat.co.uk loan 
started. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneyboat.co.uk needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss R could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Moneyboat.co.uk should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I dont disagree that Miss Rs declared income of £2,250, against an expenditure of £800, 
wouldve made the loan seem initially affordable to Moneyboat.co.uk
But as our adjudicator explained, Moneyboat.co.uks credit checks showed that Miss R 
already had significant amounts of other lending of various types. This report shows she had 
repayments to make of not far short of £1,000. So, I think there was enough evidence of 
financial problems to say that Moneyboat.co.uk shouldve looked further into Miss Rs 
circumstances.
Moneyboat.co.uk has said that it didnt fully consider the information it had about Miss R 
before lending. This was to ensure that it provided a quick and efficient service to her. And it 
also says that the FCA guidance does not say that it needed to look at each line of a credit 
file in respect of each loan, particularly early on in the lending relationship.
But Moneyboat.co.uk had information that showed Miss R was possibly in financial difficulty. 
And having looked at the credit file information Moneyboat.co.uk has supplied I dont think 
its difficult to see this. The first few pages of the credit file information Moneyboat.co.uk has 
supplied show that Miss R had significant amounts of other lending. There is more detail 
about this later in the report. 
I think its reasonable to say that this information was easily accessible to Moneyboat.co.uk. 
And it follows that its also reasonable to say that Moneyboat.co.uk should have fully 
considered it.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check before approving this loan would most 
likely have shown that Miss R did have significant amounts of debt including other short-term 
loans and high cost credit. She was making repayments to all of this debt which would have 
affected her ability to repay the Moneyboat.co.uk loan. I can see repayments and or deposits 
from around eight other high cost and short-term credit providers in the months leading up to 
the Moneyboat.co.uk loan. 
So even if some of this credit was due to be repaid before this loan, I dont think its 
reasonable to say she was borrowing sustainably. And her bank statements show that she 
had other financial and related problems and she was struggling to make ends meet at 
times. 
I think that Moneyboat.co.uk wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate 
checks. And I think Moneyboat.co.uk wouldve seen Miss R wouldnt have been able repay 
this loan in a sustainable way. So, I think that Moneyboat.co.uk shouldnt have given this 
loan to Miss R and I think shes lost out as a result of this. Im upholding Miss Rs complaint.
Putting things rightIn deciding what redress Moneyboat.co.uk should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it not lent to Miss R. Clearly there are a great many possible, 
and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss R may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss R in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss R would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Moneyboat.co.uks liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Moneyboat.co.uk shouldnt have given Miss R this loan.
If Moneyboat.co.uk has sold the outstanding debts Moneyboat.co.uk should buy these back 
if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Moneyboat.co.uk is not able to buy 
the debts back then Moneyboat.co.uk should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below.
A) Moneyboat.co.uk should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss R 
towards interest, fees and charges on the loan, if it doesnt have an outstanding balance, not 
including anything it has already refunded.
B) Moneyboat.co.uk should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made 
by Miss R which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss R originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Moneyboat.co.uk should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss R as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss R having 
made overpayments then Moneyboat.co.uk should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Moneyboat.co.uk should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding. If this results in a surplus then the 
surplus should be paid to Miss R. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Moneyboat.co.uk should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss R. 
E) Moneyboat.co.uk should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Rs credit file 
in relation to this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat.co.uk to deduct tax from this interest. 
Moneyboat.co.uk should give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax Moneyboat.co.uk 
has deducted, if they ask for one. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right by 
doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman