DRN-4199030
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
trading as Cashplus Bank (Cashplus) is holding them liable for unauthorised payments taken 
from their account. Mr R, who is a director of R, brings this complaint on Rs behalf. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr R has reported these payments as being unauthorised  and Cashplus hasnt 
disputed this. But, in line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), it has 
refused to refund them on the basis that Mr R failed with gross negligence to comply 
with the terms of the account and keep Rs personalised security details safe.
Having considered the relevant regulations, and the action Mr R took, I dont agree 
he was grossly negligent. Ill explain why. 
Mr R received a call from the scammer on a number that appeared to match 
Cashpluss genuine number  a tactic known as spoofing. This supported Mr Rs 
impression that he was genuinely speaking to someone from Cashplus, as claimed 
by the caller. 
The caller told Mr R there had been fraud on Rs account. They said a phone number 
other than his own had been registered on the account, and used to take it over. This 
will have created pressure and urgency, in a bid by the scammers to persuade Mr R 
he needed to act quickly to secure the account. 
Mr R was sent an email from an address that appeared to relate to Cashplus. He was 
directed to click on a link from that email, and this led him to a page which he has 
explained looked like Cashpluss genuine website. I understand he was tricked into 
entering details such as a One Time Passcode (OTP) he was sent, as well as 
forwarding an email from Cashplus.
In doing so, Mr R was tricked into sharing details with the scammer which they used 
to make these payments. But its clear he took the action he did without 
understanding he was breaching the account terms or failing to keep Rs 
personalised details safe. To the contrary, he thought the action was necessary to 
protect Rs account. 
Cashplus says the scam should have raised alarm bells as the email Mr R was sent 
came from an address that wasnt actually theirs. If Mr R had checked this, he would 
have identified it might be a scam. It also says he previously fell victim to a similar 
scam, so should have been more aware and vigilant. 
Ive considered Cashpluss arguments. I think lots of people would have been tricked 
by the email address the scammer used  particularly when put under pressure and 
thinking their account was at risk. And having been primed for the email via a call 
spoofing Cashpluss genuine number. The domain name didnt make it clear it wasnt 
a genuine business email. So I can see why Mr R didnt identify a scam risk based on 
the email.
While I appreciate Cashpluss point regarding the previous scam, I am mindful of the 
time that had passed between the events. And it could even have added to Mr Rs 
panic at thinking he was at risk of fraud again. 
Additionally, unlike the previous scam, Mr R wasnt giving away an OTP or other 
details. He was simply entering them, as instructed by who he believed to be 
Cashplus  which didnt seem out of turn with the warning message for the OTP. 
Its my understanding (put to Cashplus, and which it hasnt disputed) the OTP 
message said the code should only be entered when prompted  which is what Mr R 
did. Additionally, the email I understand Mr R forwarded didnt include any warning 
that it shouldnt be shared. So I can see why he didnt realise that, in entering the 
code and sharing the email, he was failing to keep Rs security details safe. 
Mr R fell victim to a sophisticated scam targeting Cashplus customers. In all the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded he seriously disregarded an obvious risk, and was 
significantly careless, such that he was grossly negligent in sharing his details. So, in 
line with the PSRs, Im satisfied Cashplus is liable for the unauthorised payments. 
The unauthorised payments caused Rs account to be overdrawn. So Cashplus 
should remove any adverse credit information, and refund any fees charged, due to 
the overdraft. And as it should have refunded R sooner, it should pay interest to 
compensate them for the loss of use of the funds.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading 
as Cashplus Bank must:
Pay R the total of the unauthorised payments, less any amount recovered or already 
refunded;
Refund R any fees and charges caused by the unauthorised payments; 
Remove any adverse information reported to the credit reference agencies as a 
result of R becoming overdrawn due to the unauthorised payments; and 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on the payment amounts funded by Rs account 
balance, less any tax lawfully deductible. It doesnt have to pay this interest on the 
payment amounts funded by the overdraft. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman