DRN-3441706
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclays Smart Investor (Barclays) 
didnt act in his best interests following a corporate action.
What happened
Mr R has a share dealing account and a stocks and shares ISA account with Barclays, both 
of which are execution only. In each account, Mr R had a holding of 1,195 shares in a 
company which Ill refer to as S.
In 2020 a scheme of arrangement was announced. Under the terms of the offer, for every S 
share held, shareholders would receive 4.1p in cash and 0.0008355599837 new shares in a 
company which Ill refer to as A.
Mr R complains that he only received £55.67 cash in each of his accounts. He says he 
should have received £489.95 in each account under the offer terms. He says Barclays 
failed to provide the required information to the registrars by the deadline date, meaning he 
didnt receive the full amount he was entitled to.
Barclays said it had paid Mr R the amount that it had received. It said it couldnt allocate 
Mr R his fractional entitlement in A shares and that this would be held as a pooled 
investment until such time as A shares becomes tradeable. It said it relied on the information 
supplied to it by CREST and that the option to take up fractional shares separately with the 
registrar was not included. It paid Mr R £100 because of the time it took to answer the 
questions hed raised.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded Barclays 
should have contacted the registrar to ensure it received the correct cash settlement for its 
underlying holders and that it hadnt acted in Mr Rs best interests. He thought Barclays 
should credit Mr Rs accounts with the amount he would have received if hed received the 
cash settlement, plus interest.
Barclays didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint was passed to me to consider. 
My provisional decision
I agreed with our investigator but was minded to award a slightly different redress. So I set 
my findings out in a provisional decision to give both parties a final opportunity to respond. 
I said:
Under the terms of the scheme of arrangement Mr R was due to receive the following for 
each S share he held:
4.1p in cash.
0.0008355599837 new A shares
Where a shareholder didnt hold enough S shares to receive at least one new A share, 
the scheme of arrangement paid the equivalent of their fractional entitlement in cash.
The prospectus recognised the position of nominee brokers. It arranged to pay the 
fractional cash equivalent for each underlying holding, provided the nominee provided 
details of its underlying holdings by a set date. Otherwise, the fractional cash equivalent 
would be calculated on the nominees total registered holding.
Barclays didnt provide details of its underlying holdings by the required date. That meant 
it received the cash, share and fractional cash equivalent on its total holding and then it 
distributed the amount it received to its underlying holders.
Mr R received £55.67 in each of his accounts. This was made up of £48.99 for the cash 
offer of 4.1p per share, and his share of the fractional cash equivalent on Barclays total 
nominee holding.
Barclays also received A shares for its total nominee holding. Mr R is due a fraction of 
these shares (approximately 0.99 of a share in each account). Barclays platform does 
not allow for the holding of fractional shares, so it has pooled the shares and will credit 
Mr Rs account if and when it is able to sell the shares.
I dont think Barclays has acted in Mr Rs best interests. I say that because he has 
received a fractional share entitlement; and there isnt a market for the shares so it 
doesnt look likely that he will receive any sale proceeds. Barclays had the opportunity to 
provide details of Mr Rs holdings to the registrar, and he would then have received a 
cash equivalent of his fractional share entitlement. Based on the information hes 
provided, this would appear to be at a rate of £0.369 for each S share held  a total of 
£440.96 in each account.
Barclays said it didnt read the prospectus in full and that it relied on CREST to provide it 
with the information it needed. But I dont think Barclays can be seen to be acting in 
Mr Rs best interests in trying to limit is liability due to a third party error when Mr R has 
made a loss as a result which he cant claim back from that third party. And this is 
covered in its terms and conditions where it says  at A 20.1 and A 20.7:
Nothing in the Agreement will exclude or limit any duty or liability:
(a) we may have to you under Regulatory Requirements: or
(b) that applicable law does not allow to be excluded or limited.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys rules require Barclays to act in the best interests of its 
clients.
Barclays has drawn our attention to Section B, clause 3.3 of its terms which covers 
distribution of corporate action entitlements to its underlying holders and how it deals 
with unallocatable fractions. But the term about unallocatable fractions (B 3.3 (b)) only 
applies to the share fractional entitlement. Ive found Barclays should have taken action 
to ensure Mr R received the cash entitlement for his fractional share, so this term isnt 
relevant here.
Finally, Mr R says he wants all Barclays clients in his position to be compensated. 
Barclays says it wouldnt be fair to compensate Mr R and not its other clients. My role is 
to consider individual disputes and reach an outcome that I think is fair and reasonable in 
the particular circumstances of each. I dont have the power to tell a bank how it should 
treat all customers or how it develops its internal policies. Thats a matter for the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).And I explained what I thought Barclays needed to do to put things right. I said:
Mr R should be put in the position hed be in now if Barclays had provided details of 
his underlying holding to the registrar by the required date. He would have received 
£48.99 for the cash offer and £440.96 for the cash equivalent of the fractional share 
entitlement in each of his accounts. He has only received £55.67. So I think Barclays 
Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclays Smart Investor, should credit each of Mr Rs 
accounts with £434.28. Barclays should also pay interest at the simple rate of 8% a 
year from the date his accounts should have been credited to the date of settlement.
Barclays paid Mr R £100 for the distress and inconvenience that the delay in 
answering his questions caused. But Mr R has also been caused distress and 
inconvenience because Barclays didnt act in his best interests. I think its fair that it 
should pay a further £100 compensation.
This redress means Mr R will not be entitled to the fractional A shares. If Barclays 
successfully sells these shares, it wont be obliged to pay Mr R a share of the 
proceeds.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr R replied to say he agreed with my provisional decision. He provided some further 
information from the prospectus to clarify some of the figures.
Barclays agreed to my provisional decision, based on the individual circumstances of this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr R for clarifying some of the figures, although this doesnt change the 
overall outcome. And Im pleased Barclays has accepted my provisional decision. 
As neither party has provided any new information or evidence, I see no reason to depart 
from my overall conclusion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclays 
Smart Investor should:
1. Credit Mr Rs share dealing account and his ISA account with £434.28 each. And it should 
pay interest at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date Mr R should have received the 
scheme of arrangement payment to the date of settlement. *
2. Pay Mr R £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused, in addition to the £100 already 
paid.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman