DRN-2407518
The complaint
Ms E is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC sold her account to a debt purchasing 
company, despite knowing that Ms E has a long-term health condition.
What happened
Ms E applied for a personal loan with Tesco for £12,000. The loan had a term of five years 
with monthly repayments of approximately £225.00. The loan commenced in February 2014.
Ms E suffers from a long-term chronic pain condition which affects her ability to work. In April 
2015 Ms Es loan account fell into arrears because she was no longer able to make the 
agreed monthly repayments. From April 2015 Ms E began making payments of £1 per 
month toward the account.
In February 2019 Ms E requested that Tesco write off the loan balance as her condition was 
now such that it was highly unlikely that she would be able to ever pay off the outstanding 
balance. Ms E also sent in a doctors note and medical documents at this time to corroborate 
her position.
Tesco reviewed the documents that Ms E sent, but because the documents were dated from 
2015, Tesco didnt feel that they provided an up to date diagnosis of Ms Es condition. Also, 
while the doctors note was from 2019, Tesco didnt feel that it gave enough detail as to Ms 
Es current condition. So, Tesco asked Ms E to provide similar medical documents to the 
ones she had provided but with a more recent date, specifically no older than six months.
Tesco didnt receive any updated medical documents from Ms E. In January 2020, Tesco 
sold Ms Es account to a debt purchasing company. Ms E was unhappy that Tesco had 
taken this course of action, and so she made a complaint.
Tesco looked at Ms Es complaint, but they didnt feel that they had acted unfairly or 
inappropriately toward Ms E, so they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Ms E wasnt satisfied with Tescos response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Tesco were under no 
obligation to write off the debt as Ms E was requesting, and also that they were entitled to 
sell the debt as this was a provision included within the terms and conditions of the loan. So, 
they didnt uphold the complaint either.
Ms E remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Ms E feels strongly about her complaint here, and I realise the severe effects 
that a chronic pain condition can have. However, having completed my review, I find that I 
have reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for the same reasons. 
Its important to begin here by establishing that a business is under no obligation to write off 
a debt in circumstances where a customer is unable to meet the obligations of that loan 
because of financial hardship brought about by a condition of chronic pain. That isnt to say 
that writing off the debt isnt an option that the business can consider, but rather that it is 
entirely at the discretion of that business whether they choose to exercise that option or not.
In addition, when a customer has borrowed money and had the benefit of that money, as Ms 
E has here, its nearly always going to be case that its fair that the customer pays that 
money back. I understand that Ms E feels that her condition is such that her ever being able 
to pay the debt back is highly unlikely, but this in and of itself doesnt invalidate Tesco 
seeking to recover as much of the outstanding loan amount as is reasonable for them to do 
so.
In this instance, Tesco have chosen to exercise their right to sell the outstanding balance of 
this loan to a debt purchasing company. That Tesco have a right to sell the debt in this 
manner is stipulated in the terms and conditions of the loan.
The Standards of Lending Practice do provide guidance as to when a debt should or 
shouldnt be sold, and while a chronic pain condition is not covered specifically within these 
guidelines, the general thrust of these guidelines suggests that careful consideration should 
be given before selling a debt to a debt purchasing company in circumstances such as 
these.
However, I think that Tesco have done that here  they have confirmed to both Ms E and 
this service that they wouldnt have sold the debt unless they certain that Ms Es position 
wouldnt worsen as a result of the sale. 
So, while I understand that Ms E is unhappy that Tesco sold the debt, there doesnt appear 
to have been any material detrimental impact to Ms E in Tesco doing so. Generally 
speaking, debt purchasing companies can offer their customers a greater amount of 
flexibility in how they repay the outstanding balance or with regard to any potential future 
settlement of the debt.
Ultimately, Tesco were under no obligation to write off the debt here. And, while Ms E was 
making token payments of £1 per month toward the loan, Tesco were also under no 
obligation to maintain this payment arrangement indefinitely.
So, its difficult for me to conclude that Ms E has been treated unfairly or unreasonably by 
Tesco here. I understand that this wont be the outcome that Ms E had hoped for, but it 
follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Tesco to take any further action at 
this time..
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Paul CooperOmbudsman