DRN-3685889
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the way Capital Home Loans Limited (CHL) have treated them
at the end of their mortgage term. They say they felt forced into making overpayments, and
CHL have unfairly reported mortgage arrears to credit reference agencies which has
prevented them from getting another mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had an interest only mortgage with CHL, the term of which expired in 2016.
CHL granted a two year term extension until 2018 to allow Mr and Mrs P more time to
redeem the mortgage.
In September 2018, Mr and Mrs P still werent able to redeem the mortgage balance, and so
it was agreed that some of the mortgage would be switched to repayment, and the term was
extended for another five years. That would have left an outstanding balance of £23,000 at
the end of the extended term. As a result of this change, Mr and Mrs Ps contractual monthly
payment (CMP) changed. Although they continued to pay more than this each month in
order to reduce the balance.
Mr and Mrs P were able to maintain these payments until early 2020 when Mr P became
unwell and Mrs Ps job was impacted by the global pandemic. CHL agreed a payment
deferral for the months of April, May and June 2020. This was then extended for a further
two months for July and August 2020.
In July 2020 CHL spoke to Mr P about the impact the payment deferral would have on his
and Mrs Ps future CMP  as they said it would increase. Mr P explained that he wouldnt be
able to afford to pay more than £1,850 per month until he was able to return to work in
January 2021. Due to his and Mrs Ps ages, they were having to self-isolate. CHL asked if
he still wanted the payment deferral to be extended given that it would make the new CMP
unaffordable, and Mr P explained they couldnt pay the CMP at the moment and so needed
the payment deferral in place. CHL said that if Mr and Mrs P dont resume making the full
CMP in September then the account will fall into arrears. Mr P explained he will be able to
increase his payments in 2021 to repay any arrears. He also explained that the plan to repay
the interest only balance at the end of the term was that his children would take out a 
mortgage to buy the property from Mr and Mrs P. Mr and Mrs P said they have no other way
of repaying the balance as they dont have any savings.
In September 2020, Mr and Mrs P resumed making monthly payments, although these didnt
cover the full new CMP that had increased as a result of the payment deferral. And in
November 2020, Mr P retired which substantially reduced his income. He explained to CHL
that he would pay what he could afford each month, but that his children were now buying
the property and that would repay the mortgage in full. He said that he would need to be
added to the new mortgage as a guarantor to get the mortgage approved, it was all being
processed, and should complete in 2021. So from November 2020, Mr and Mrs P have been
paying £600 towards the mortgage, which was less than a third of the CMP. CHL refused to
agree to this as an arrangement at the time, as there was no guarantee when the property
would be sold. CHL reported the mortgage as being in arrears.
Mr and Mrs P complained to CHL. They were unhappy that CHL were reporting their
mortgage as being in arrears as this was preventing them from obtaining a new mortgage
which would repay the existing one. CHL didnt uphold the complaint, they said they were
obliged to report accurate information to credit reference agencies. They had supplied Mr
and Mrs P with a letter confirming they were making reduced payments, but they wouldnt
amend the way this was being reported.
Mr P contacted CHL again as he had received a mortgage offer from another lender, but this
had since been withdrawn as a result of the mortgage arrears reported on his credit file. He
complained to CHL about the fact theyd forced him to make overpayments that he didnt
agree to and now his mortgage was in arrears. CHL didnt uphold that complaint. They said
that in 2018, Mr and Mrs P had agreed to the increased payments in order for the mortgage
to be extended. Their income showed that was affordable at the time, and that was
demonstrated by the fact the payments were maintained until 2020. CHL also received
confirmation from Mr and Mrs Ps financial adviser that they would be able to maintain those
payments until the end of the term.
CHL also said the payments were increased further at the end of the payment deferral in
2020. That was a result of the increased balance that had resulted from the deferred
payments. They said Mr P had confirmed he was happy with that at the time the payment
deferral extension was agreed. They recommended that Mr and Mrs P discuss their situation
with their financial adviser to explore what options may be available to them now.
Mr and Mrs P raised another complaint. They said that they never agreed to the five year
term extension on the basis of higher payments, and they knew it wouldnt be affordable for
them at the time. CHL didnt uphold the complaint. They said that prior to the term extension
being put in place, Mr and Mrs P had signed to accept the terms of the extension, including
the new payment amount. They said the rest of Mr and Mrs Ps concerns had already been
addressed in previous responses.
Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to our service. They also explained theyd like CHL to
extend the mortgage further in order to allow more time for the balance to reduce, and
increase the likelihood that Mr and Mrs Ps daughter could get a mortgage for the full
amount. They said they have a lot of equity in the property but that an equity release product
wasnt suitable for them. They also said they have life insurance policies that would be
sufficient to cover the mortgage balance. Our Investigator looked into things, and explained
that overall, whilst she empathised with Mr and Mrs Ps situation, she didnt think CHL had
acted unfairly.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed. They said that CHL had not taken their age and their health into
consideration. They said CHLs actions had caused them a lot of stress and anxiety, and so
they wanted the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 26 July 2022. This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What happened in 2018
Mr and Mrs Ps original mortgage term ended in 2016, but as they were unable to repay the
balance at that time, CHL agreed to extend it until 2018. However, by 2018 Mr and Mrs P
still werent able to repay the balance and asked CHL for another five year extension. Mr andMrs P had been making significant overpayments to the mortgage to reduce the balance at
that point, and explained to CHL they could continue with that in order to pay off as much as
they could.
CHL agreed to the extension on the basis that Mr and Mrs P would be contractually obliged
to continue making those higher monthly payments, and they would need to repay the
outstanding balance at the end of the five year extension. Mr and Mrs P said they planned
for their children to take out their own mortgage over the property once they were earning
more money. And that would clear any remaining balance.
Im not persuaded CHL treated Mr and Mrs P unfairly in 2018. The term had ended, and Mr
and Mrs P put a proposal to CHL which was accepted. Based on what CHL knew at the
time, the proposal was affordable for Mr and Mrs P, and they had a plan to repay the
balance by the end of the five year period. Im also mindful that they were able to maintain
the terms of the extension until their circumstances changed in 2020. CHL didnt need to
agree to an extension, and could have insisted that Mr and Mrs P redeem the mortgage in
2018, as it had already been extended once before. But they took account of Mr and Mrs Ps
circumstances and agreed a way forward that would ensure the mortgage was repaid in a
way that worked for Mr and Mrs P. So Im not satisfied they were acting unfairly by accepting
Mr and Mrs Ps proposal.
What happened in 2020
Sadly in 2020 Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances changed. Mr P became unwell, and they were
both significantly impacted by the pandemic as due to their ages, they were advised to self 
isolate. I can appreciate this would have been a difficult time for them.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance for mortgage lenders on how to
support borrowers who were impacted by the pandemic. As part of that guidance, lenders
could allow borrowers to defer payments temporarily, which is what CHL allowed Mr and Mrs
P to do for five months.
However, the impact of deferring payments is that the mortgage balance does not reduce as
planned, and so there needs to be an agreement as to how those deferred payments will be
repaid by the end of the mortgage term. CHL told Mr P what the new CMP would be after the
deferral period, and Mr P explained that he wouldnt be able to afford that higher amount
each month. Whilst there were several discussions that took place about this and what Mr
and Mrs Ps plans were, I cant see that any alternative options for repaying the deferred
payments were discussed.
I dont think it was responsible of CHL to increase Mr and Mrs Ps monthly payments after
the deferral when theyd told them they wouldnt be able to afford them. I do think that, in line
with the FCAs guidance, there were other options available that CHL ought to have
considered and should have been explored. For example, they could have extended the
term by a few months in order to keep the CMP at the amount it was at before the deferrals
were put in place, or they could have added the deferred payments to the interest only part
of the mortgage so that they could be repaid at the end of the term.
Considering Mr and Mrs Ps particular circumstances, I think had these other options been
explored as they should have been, adding the deferred payments onto the interest only 
balance would have been the most appropriate option given the circumstances. The FCA 
required lenders to take account of the borrowers circumstances and what they could afford 
when deciding next steps for those deferred payments, and by simply increasing the CMP 
when Mr P had told them that would be unaffordable for them I dont think they did that. Mr 
and Mrs P had told CHL they were going to repay the interest only balance at the end of the term extension (in 2023) when their children could obtain a mortgage to buy the property. 
CHL had been willing to accept that as a way of repaying the existing interest only balance 
of around £23,000, so Im persuaded it added very little risk to them of adding the five 
months of deferred payments onto that amount. So, considering all the circumstances here, 
Im persuaded thats what should have been agreed.
However, Mr and Mrs P were only able to resume payments for two months before Mr P
retired in November 2020. At that point, their circumstances changed significantly, and they
could no longer afford to pay anywhere close to the CMP  even at its previous level.
Mr and Mrs P were keeping CHL updated with their plans, and as they could no longer afford
to pay the CMP, their daughter was trying to obtain a mortgage sooner than originally
planned in order to repay Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage. Unfortunately, she wasnt able to get the
borrowing she needed on her own, so Mr P was added to the application as a guarantor.
Mr P asked CHL not to report the mortgage arrears that were accruing as it would affect his
chance of being approved for another mortgage. But CHL refused. They also wouldnt agree
to an arrangement as they said there was no way of knowing how long it would take Mr P
and his daughter to get a new mortgage, and theyd broken the conditions of the term
extension.
CHL do have an obligation to report the mortgage account accurately to credit reference
agencies. So if the full CMP wasnt being paid each month, then they did need to report that.
I dont think they were acting unreasonably by declining Mr Ps request to report the
mortgage as up to date when it wasnt.
However, I do think CHL could have given more thought as to whether it would have been
appropriate to agree to an arrangement, rather than refusing. I say that because it was clear
Mr and Mrs P were paying all that they could afford towards the mortgage after Mr P retired.
And they had brought forward their plans to try and repay the full balance as soon as they
could. Although I do also appreciate that there was no way of guaranteeing how long that
might take, Mr and Mrs P told CHL at the time that they planned to redeem the mortgage in
full in 2021.
CHL are required to act in line with the rules set by the regulator, and that includes
considering forbearance when a borrower is in financial difficulties and unable to pay their
full mortgage payments. There were options that CHL could have considered, such as
agreeing to a reduced payment arrangement of £600 per month for a temporary period. Or a
temporary switch to interest only if that would have meant that the reduced CMP would have
been affordable for Mr and Mrs P. Although to be clear, these options still would have
impacted Mr and Mrs Ps credit file, so it might not necessarily have resulted in them getting
the mortgage they wanted at the time they applied. Nonetheless, CHL reporting an
arrangement to credit reference agencies would have reflected more favourably than just
reporting missed payments. And I think thats what they should have done.
Overall, I dont consider it was reasonable for CHL to refuse to agree to anything with Mr and
Mrs P when it was clear they needed help, and they were trying to take steps to redeem the
mortgage in full. The rules set by the regulator state that a firm must deal fairly with
customers who are experiencing difficulties with their mortgage payments, and they must
make reasonable efforts to reach an agreement with the customer about how any shortfall in
payments should be repaid. Im not satisfied CHL acted in accordance with those rules
during their conversations with Mr P towards the end of 2020.
Request for another term extensionMr and Mrs P have told our service that they want CHL to extend the mortgage further
beyond 2023 so they have more time to reduce the balance, and therefore it would be more
likely that their daughter could get a mortgage for the amount needed. Theyve said theyre
not willing to consider equity release as this house is their only asset.
I cant see that Mr and Mrs P asked CHL to extend their mortgage further before this
complaint came to our service, or that theyve complained to CHL about that. So CHL
havent had the opportunity to respond to their request. As a result, its not appropriate for
me to make a finding on this part of their complaint without first giving CHL the opportunity to
consider it.
But, Mr and Mrs P are currently in a position where theyre unable to afford their monthly
mortgage payments, and whilst Ive said that CHL should have agreed to a short term
arrangement to give Mr and Mrs P some more breathing space to sort out their plans for
redeeming the mortgage, they still need to find a way to repay what they owe. If they havent
done so already, I would encourage Mr and Mrs P to seek independent financial advice
about their situation and what options might be available to them.
Putting things right
Overall, I do think CHL ought to have done more here to help Mr and Mrs P whilst they were
experiencing financial difficulties. Ive set out below what I think CHL should do to put things
right, which should put Mr and Mrs P back in the position they would have been in had CHL
given proper consideration to their circumstances, and followed the relevant rules and
guidance set by the regulator.
Re-work Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage account as if the deferred payments had been 
added to the interest only part of the mortgage balance in 2020. Any overpayments 
Mr and Mrs P have made as a result of this re-structure should be used to reduce the 
arrears on the mortgage.
Re-work Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage account as if CHL had agreed to a temporary 
payment arrangement in November 2020, based on what Mr and Mrs P could afford 
at the time. If that would have meant that CHL would have applied less fees to the 
mortgage, these should be refunded to the account.
Update the way the mortgage has been reported to credit reference agencies as a 
result of the above changes.
Pay Mr and Mrs P £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
conversations they had with CHL about the deferred payments and the payment 
arrangement. Im satisfied that in those conversations CHL were not as flexible as 
they ought to have been, and it was clear from the notes of those conversations the 
distress this caused.
Mr and Mrs P responded and explained that they had asked for a further term extension, but 
this has been declined by CHL. They arent happy with how the request had been handled. 
They said they had sent CHL their income and expenditure information as theyd requested 
but remained unhappy as they werent helping them with solutions for their case. 
CHL responded and provided detailed submissions setting out why they disagreed with my 
provisional decision. For ease I will only summarise their points here, but I can assure them 
Ive considered all that theyve said carefully before issuing this decision.CHL have said that Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about how CHL handled the payment deferral 
is out of time, as they issued a summary resolution communication letter (SRC) for a 
complaint about that issue in June 2020. They said that complaint hadnt been referred to 
our service within six months of that letter. Although in any event, they didnt agree it would 
have been fair or reasonable for them to have dealt with the deferred payments by extending 
the term of the loan or adding them to the amount payable at the end of the term. 
They said the FCA makes it clear in their guidance that reasonable extensions of the term do 
not need to be considered alongside capitalisation where this would take customers past 
retirement. Both customers were in their 70s, the mortgage had already been extended, and 
there was no evidence they could recommence payments of the full CMP at any time. They 
said in any event, the changes I suggested would have no practical benefit as Mr and Mrs P 
were unable to pay the new CMP after Mr P retired in November 2020.
CHL believe theyve provided as much forbearance as possible to Mr and Mrs P and have 
not taken steps to enforce their rights through litigation despite the level of arrears that have 
accrued on the account. They said they have minimalised the application of arrears fees, as 
they were only charged June to August 2021.
CHL said they have been keen to assist Mr and Mrs P but are not compelled to continuously 
provide short or long term extensions, or go beyond what was reasonable in the 
circumstances  given the extensions that had already been provided. They made attempts 
to discuss alternative options with Mr and Mrs P, as well as encouraged them to seek 
independent advice.
Mr and Mrs P wanted to keep the interest only part of the mortgage down and were keen to 
reduce the capital balance as demonstrated from the numerous discussions they had. They 
didnt want to accept any other forbearance options when they made the request for the 
payment deferrals. CHL dont think it would have been in Mr and Mrs Ps best interests to re-
work the account as if the deferred payments had been added to the interest only balance.
Mr and Mrs P had given CHL no timeframe for when the mortgage would be redeemed. If a 
payment arrangement was agreed in November 2020 as suggested in my provisional 
decision, a further £8,000 would have accrued to the account balance. Mr and Mrs P have 
now failed to meet their CMP for 21 months and are still unable to do so. So the 
recommendation would only serve to increase the balance owed by the customers in the 
same way the same action would have done 20 months ago. Any temporary arrangement 
made in November 2020 would long have expired on their credit file now. Mr and Mrs Ps 
arrears status, and creditworthiness now would remain the same.
CHL have reported the account accurately to credit reference agencies in line with the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) requirements, and it would not be appropriate to 
make changes to that now.
In summary, CHL believe they have offered appropriate forbearance to Mr and Mrs P since 
their mortgage term ended in 2016, and dont think it would have been appropriate, fair or 
reasonable to have taken the steps I set out in my provisional decision. They re-iterated that 
the full mortgage payments are still not being made, and Mr and Mrs P need to discuss 
realistic options for repaying this mortgage with them as a matter of urgency.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill first address the concerns CHL have now raised about our services jurisdiction to 
consider Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about the payment deferral.
CHL have told us that they sent Mr and Mrs P an SRC in June 2020 which addressed their 
complaint about the payment deferrals. They say they made Mr and Mrs P aware they would have six months to refer their concerns to our service if they remained unhappy with the 
response.
CHL have not provided a copy of that SRC letter. I have seen a letter that they sent to Mr 
and Mrs P on 29 June confirming the payment deferral extension, but there is no mention of 
a complaint in that letter. However, I have seen from the contact notes that a complaint was 
raised, and upheld in June 2020 about the fact CHL initially refused to extend the payment 
deferral. Following the complaint being made, CHL changed their position and agreed to a 
two month extension. 
Im satisfied that the complaint Mr and Mrs P have asked our service to consider is not the 
same as the one made in June 2020. The conversations about what the CMP would be after 
the payment deferral, and Mr and Mrs Ps ability to afford that, happened in July 2020, after 
that complaint had been made and resolved. So Im satisfied this complaint is a separate 
complaint that wasnt dealt with by any SRC issued in June 2020. And Im still satisfied we 
have the power to consider it.
Now Ill turn to the comments CHL have made about the suitability of my previous 
recommendations relating to how the deferred payments should have been treated at the 
end of the deferral period. Ive carefully considered what CHL have said, and reviewed the 
notes from the conversations that took place at the time. Having done so, my decision on 
this point remains unchanged.
There were conversations throughout July 2020 about what would happen to the CMP once 
the deferral period was due to end. And Mr P made it clear to CHL that he would not be able 
to afford the new payment amount. He was aware that would result in arrears, and he told 
CHL he should be able to start repaying those arrears in 2021. But I dont think its right that 
just because Mr P was aware that arrears would accrue if he didnt maintain payments, that 
it was responsible of CHL to agree to increase the CMP when it wasnt affordable  when 
they had other options they could have considered. 
I appreciate what CHL have said about the fact Mr P did not call to ask about other options 
that might be available. But there were several conversations that took place in that month  
during which Mr P made it clear he wouldnt be able to afford the new payment. So I think it 
was for CHL  not Mr P  to explore in those conversations whether there may have been 
alternative options that would have been affordable. In fact in one of the conversations, on 
24 July, the notes say that CHL advised Mr P that if he didnt agree to the increased CMP at 
the end of the deferral period, then they couldnt agree an extension to the deferral. So not 
only did CHL not make Mr P aware of the other options that might have been available for 
repaying the deferred payments, they made it seem like accepting a higher CMP beyond 
what Mr P could afford  was a condition of getting the payment deferral in the first place.
I have also thought carefully about what CHL have said about Mr P not wanting to extend 
the term or increase the balance that his family would ultimately have to take a mortgage for 
to repay this one. And I agree they were clearly Mr and Mrs Ps priorities whilst they were 
able to make the regular payments  to pay off as much capital as they could to avoid 
leaving much at the end of the term for their children to pay. But I think that changed once 
they became impacted by the pandemic and they were no longer able to afford their 
payments.
In fact, the contact notes for the account show that Mr P asked CHL for a term extension in 
June 2020 when he wasnt able to make any payments to the account, and the deferrals 
were being discussed. He was told then that CHL would discuss the available options at the 
end of the deferral period. But that never happened, CHL just increased the CMP. I still think 
CHL had an obligation to explore the different options in regards to Mr and Mrs P making 
up the deferred payments and I cant see they did that. Instead they added the payments to 
the repayment balance which increased the CMP to a level that was not affordable for Mr and Mrs P. I appreciate that shortly afterwards even the previous CMP became unaffordable 
for Mr and Mrs P and the situation changed again. But that wasnt known at the time.
As a result, Im still satisfied that had the options been explored, in order to arrange for the 
deferred payments to be repaid in a way that was affordable for Mr and Mrs P (or seemingly 
affordable at the time), and in their best interests  the deferred payments ought to have 
been added onto the interest only balance of the mortgage. That way there was no need for 
the term to be extended further than it already had been, and there was already a repayment 
strategy in place to repay the interest only balance.
Now turning to what happened when Mr P retired later in 2020, again whilst I have carefully 
considered what CHL have said, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision in 
that respect either.
Whether the payment arrangement to pay lower than the CMP was agreed by CHL or not 
(which it wasnt), there still would have been arrears accruing on the account where the full 
CMP wasnt being met, and the balance was not reducing as expected. So the net position 
of the account would have remained the same. I agree with CHL on that point.
But regardless of that, CHL knew that Mr and Mrs P were paying as much as they could 
afford. CHL say now that they encouraged Mr and Mrs P to think about other options that 
may have been more affordable, but I cant see from the contact notes that anything was 
suggested by CHL in terms of other forbearance. They told Mr and Mrs P to keep paying 
what they could afford, but that the mortgage would go into arrears. They also said they 
would hold off litigation action (as a result of the FCA guidance in relation to repossession 
action during the pandemic), but that Mr and Mrs P should seek independent advice.
It seems to me that Mr P was being continuously open with CHL about his situation, what he 
could afford to pay, and that he was trying to sell the house to his children to repay the 
balance. Whilst I appreciate CHL did not pursue litigation at the time (and still havent), and 
whilst I doubt that had a constructive conversation taken place about other forbearance 
options that could potentially have helped  there would have been an affordable solution 
agreed that would have been suitable for all parties, I do think it was unfair of CHL to refuse 
to recognise the fact they were accepting lower payments as a payment arrangement. As for 
all intents and purposes  CHL had said that Mr and Mrs P could continue to pay what they 
could afford and no litigation action would be taken in the immediate future. As CHL were 
accepting those lower payments without taking further action, I think it was unfair of them not 
to have recognised that as a formal payment arrangement.
CHL have said that even if they had agreed to a payment arrangement, as there was no 
clear timeframe for the mortgage to be redeemed, there is no appropriate timeframe for the 
arrangement to have been in place. But I disagree. Mr P had told CHL towards the end of 
2020 that they had started the mortgage process and were getting everything in place. They 
said the mortgage should be redeemed in 2021 when everything had gone through. Given 
the circumstances and what Mr and Mrs P had told CHL, I think it would have been 
reasonable for CHL to have agreed a reduced payment arrangement for six months. That 
could then have been reviewed at the end of that period and next steps decided.
Mr and Mrs P have said theyve since asked CHL for another term extension and theyre not 
happy with how thats been dealt with. They will need to complain to CHL separately about 
that if they havent done so already.
Overall, I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances have changed in recent years and 
theyre no longer able to afford the mortgage as it currently stands. If they havent done so 
already, they need to seek independent advice about their options for redeeming this 
mortgage as its no longer sustainable for them. They also need to engage with CHL about 
what their plans are, and given the level of arrears that are continuing to increase  this 
should be an urgent priority for them.I understand that CHL have generally shown forbearance and empathy for Mr and Mrs Ps 
circumstances. But for the reasons Ive set out in this decision, and my provisional decision, I 
still think they ought to have done more to support Mr and Mrs Ps ability to pay this 
mortgage when they really needed it.
Putting things right 
In order to put things right I still think CHL should:
Re-work Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage account as if the deferred payments had been 
added to the interest only part of the mortgage balance in 2020. Any overpayments 
Mr and Mrs P have made as a result of this re-structure should be used to reduce the 
arrears on the mortgage.
Re-work Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage account as if CHL had agreed to a six month 
payment arrangement in November 2020, based on what Mr and Mrs P could afford 
at the time. If that would have meant that CHL would have applied less fees to the 
mortgage, these should be refunded to the account.
Update the way the mortgage has been reported to credit reference agencies as a 
result of the above changes.
Pay Mr and Mrs P £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
conversations they had with CHL about the deferred payments and the payment 
arrangement. Im satisfied that in those conversations CHL were not as flexible as 
they ought to have been, and it was clear from the notes of those conversations the 
distress this caused.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part and 
instruct Capital Home Loans Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman