DRN-1733827
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund the money they 
lost when they fell victim to an invoice interception scam.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had employed an installer to fit an attic window. The installer said hed email 
them the details to make payment. 
A few days later, as expected, they received an email which appeared to be from the 
installer and contained the required account details for them to make the payment that was 
due.
Mr and Mrs W made the payment on 29 April 2019, using their online banking. The sum of 
£1,060 was sent to the sort code and account number provided in the email. Mr and Mrs W 
also included the payee name, quoting the name of the installer. 
However, Mr and Mrs W heard from the installer some days later. The installer told them that 
his email account had been compromised, and the payment details theyd been sent from 
his email account were not legitimate.
Mr and Mrs W contacted their bank, NatWest, on 7 May to report the scam. NatWest 
contacted the bank that had received the funds on the same day. However, the receiving 
bank responded to say that no funds remained to be recovered.
NatWest said it didnt think it was liable for the loss Mr and Mrs W had suffered. It didnt think 
it had been at fault in sending the money to the sort code and account details Mr and Mrs W 
had asked it to, and it thought it had done everything it could to attempt to recover their 
money when they made the bank aware of the problem.
Mr and Mrs W raised a complaint with NatWest about this. They pointed out that NatWest 
had asked them for a payee name when they made the payment, but that it appeared it had 
not used this or verified this with the recipient bank, and that had it done so this would likely 
have prevented their loss. 
Mr and Mrs W noted that NatWest had signed up to a voluntary code on scams which took 
effect only shortly after their loss, and so clearly had some awareness of the risks of this 
type of scam before they made the payment. They also said NatWest had a duty of care to 
put measures in place to protect their customers from such scams, and that NatWest knew 
the receiving bank was often used by fraudsters and scammers. As they werent at fault, 
they wanted NatWest to refund their loss.
NatWest maintained its position, so Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt think NatWest could have done anything to prevent the scam - she 
didnt consider the transfer Mr and Mrs W had made was particularly out of the ordinary for 
their account, or so unusual that it should have raised NatWests suspicions. And she didnt 
think NatWest missed an opportunity to identify the payment could potentially have been in 
relation to a scam. She said that payee name confirmation wasnt in place at the time of the 
payment, and that the voluntary code Mr and Mrs W had referred to wasnt retrospective. So, 
she didnt think NatWest was liable to refund them.
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept our investigators view. So, their complaint has been passed to 
me to reach a final decision. 
It is important for me to note here that Mr and Mrs W have separately complained to our 
service about the bank that received the funds they sent from their NatWest account. That 
complaint is currently being considered separately to this one. 
I have taken account of what they say in their other complaint - in so far as it relates to the 
complaint about NatWest. However, this present decision is solely concerned with NatWest 
and the question of whether NatWest has any liability. So my findings here will have no 
direct bearing on Mr and Mrs Ws other complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as those of the investigator and for 
the same reasons. 
Im extremely sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr and Mrs W. I understand this was a 
cruel scam and part of a wider series of events that caused them significant distress. I can 
understand entirely why they feels so strongly that their money should be returned to them, 
and why they do not accept what the investigator said. However, for me to say Natwest is 
liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that the bank could and should have acted 
to prevent the loss, or that it failed to meet its obligations in some other way.
So I need to consider first what NatWest was obliged to do here. In broad terms, the starting 
position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare duty).
Regulated firms like NatWest are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (Principle 6).And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised 
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations (BBA) February 
2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam 
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 
Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  
Code of practice, which a number of banks and trade associations were involved in 
the development of); and,
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether NatWest acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr and Mrs W when they transferred £1,060 from their account, or whether it should 
have done more than it did.
Mr and Mrs W accept they authorised the transfer. Because of this, NatWest had an 
obligation to follow their instructions. 
But as Ive noted above, there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a 
closer look at the circumstances surrounding this transaction. I consider that as a matter of 
good practice NatWest shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions.
So, Ive first thought about whether the transfer made by Mr and Mrs W was out of character 
and unusual. To decide this, Ive reviewed the typical pattern of Mr and Mrs Ws account 
usage, by reviewing their account history in the six months prior to the scam.
As Ive noted above NatWest has a duty to look to identify and help prevent transactions that 
could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. This is balanced against its obligation to 
process payments that it is instructed to make by its customers. I recognise NatWest has a 
difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual activity. 
However, I dont think this transaction was so unusual or suspicious in comparison to Mr and 
Mrs Ws normal account activity that it ought to have alerted NatWest that Mr and Mrs W 
may have been at risk of financial harm.
Mr and Mrs W had made several other (legitimate) transfers out in the six months before the 
scam, including payments in the £500 to £1,000 range. So the payment they made for 
£1,060 does not look unusual or out of character to me. 
Based on their own subsequent research, Mr and Mrs W say the receiving bank to which 
their funds were sent has previously been known to be used to receive fraudulent payments. 
They think this factor should have caused NatWest specific concern about the transfer. Ive taken account of the point they make. I consider that for any bank receiving a payment, there 
is the risk a payment being sent to it may be part of a scam or fraud. However, I also 
consider that more typically these will be genuine, legitimate payments. I dont think the fact 
that the money was being sent to this specific receiving bank was sufficient in itself for 
NatWest to have taken action to intervene here  in the absence of other factors that might 
be significant enough to have caused it concerns.
Overall, I dont think NatWest was wrong to allow Mr and Mrs W to make this transaction 
without questioning them about it. There wasnt enough here to make me think NatWest 
would reasonably have been put on enquiry that Mr and Mrs W might be about to fall victim 
to a fraud.
When the scam was brought to NatWests attention, a week had passed, and the money had 
been removed by the scammer. I am satisfied that NatWest acted promptly in contacting the 
recipient bank but sadly it was too late to recover any of these funds.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ws point that a new voluntary code has now been introduced, and 
that they fell victim to a scam only a matter of weeks before that code became effective. 
I understand that what Mr and Mrs W are referring to here is the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM Code), introduced in May 2019. But the CRM Code is not retrospective. 
I cannot require NatWest to follow a code that wasnt in place at the time, and which doesnt 
apply retrospectively. 
Similarly, the new system to provide confirmation of payee names had not been 
implemented at the time of this scam. So, the payee name entered might be shown on a 
customers bank statement but could not be used for verification. Again, I cannot reasonably 
say NatWest is at fault when the option to verify the payee was not available to it at that 
time.
I also understand Mr and Mrs Ws frustration that other banks appear to have refunded 
similar cases to theirs. But I cannot require NatWest to settle a complaint as a matter of 
goodwill when I do not find it is at fault.
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr and Mrs W. I am very sorry that Mr and Mrs 
W fell victim to what was a cruel and opportunist scam, and that they have lost out as a 
result. I appreciate this is a lot of money for them both to have lost. 
But in all of the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say NatWest could reasonably have 
prevented what happened. So I cant fairly require NatWest to refund Mr and Mrs W.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about National 
Westminster Bank PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
  
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman