DRN-3140712
The complaint
Mr V complains that Vanquis Bank Limited made a mistake recording his address; unfairly 
suspended and then closed his account; and recorded adverse information on his credit file. 
He says he hasnt been treated fairly and he should be paid compensation and have his 
credit file amended.
What happened
Mr V applied for a Vanquis credit card and contacted Vanquis when it hadnt arrived. It was 
found that his address wasnt correct as the flat number hadnt been included. Mr V located 
the card in the communal area of his building but not the PIN. He was told he would need to 
write to Vanquis with proof of his address. Mr V raised a complaint as he was happy to send 
information by email but didnt see why he had to post the information after making an online 
application. Mr V says he hadnt heard back about this but was then contacted by Vanquis to 
say it would be closing his account due to information it had received. He says Vanquis 
wouldnt tell him what information had been provided and when he contacted the party the 
information had been said to come from it said it only had information about Vanquis making 
request of it not the other way around.
Mr V says he suffers from mental health conditions and this issue has caused him distress 
and inconvenience. He wants to be paid £500 because of this as well as having his credit 
record cleared and Vanquis to remove all his data from its systems.
Vanquis issued a final response letter dated 2 October 2020 not upholding Mr Vs complaint. 
It said that it received information that meant Mr Vs account was suspended and he was 
sent a letter that explained that he had 60 days to contact the third party if he thought the 
information was incorrect. It said that while there was a block on the account, online access 
wasnt available and provided information about how to make payments. Regarding Mr Vs 
address it said that the application didnt include the flat number and that when an address 
change request is made shortly after an account is opened it required proof of the address 
as part of its security checks. Vanquis noted Mr Vs account was in arrears at that time.
Following the final response letter and Mr V providing further information, Vanquis said 
Mr Vs account had been closed in error. However, it said that it had recorded correct 
information with the credit reference agencies as Mr V hadnt made any payments towards 
his account.
Mr V didnt think Vanquis had done enough to resolve his complaint and didnt think he had 
been treated fairly so he referred it to this service.
Our investigator partially upheld this complaint. They didnt think that Vanquis had made an 
error recording Mr Vs address and didnt think it was unreasonable that it asked for proof of 
address to be sent in order to update this. They also didnt think that Vanquis had recorded 
the default incorrectly or done anything wrong by passing Mr Vs account to a third party. 
However, they accepted that Mr V hadnt received the statement in September and so 
thought the late payment charge applied at that time should be removed.
Our investigator said that Vanquis had admitted the account had been closed in error, but 
they thought given the comments Mr V had made that he would likely have closed the 
account in due course. Therefore, they didnt require any further action regarding the 
account but said Mr V should be paid £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
he was caused by being told incorrectly by Vanquis that it had received negative information 
about him.
Mr V didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that it wasnt possible for him to 
choose the building address as part of his application and he would have had to choose the 
flat number. He said that he was rightly upset by Vanquis treatment of him, but it wasnt right 
to conclude that he would have ended the relationship anyway and he thought Vanquis 
should have at least asked him about this but instead it decided to close his account.
Regarding the default he said that as Vanquis hadnt treated him fairly and he was trying to 
resolve this issue his only leverage was his payment, so he was withholding this. He also 
didnt agree that £100 was a reasonable outcome to the issues he had experienced.
Mr V said that Vanquis should recall the account and he would pay the original balance of 
£99 at which point his account should be settled. He then wanted his credit file amended 
with the default removed and a written apology and £500 compensation.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
The address recorded on Vanquis system had the building address where Mr V was 
living but not his flat number. It wasnt clear why the flat number wasnt included. 
Vanquis had explained the account was opened online and so the information input 
by Mr V would have been automatically transferred. However, Mr V provided 
screenshots showing he would have needed to choose a flat number. 
Mr V contacted Vanquis when he hadnt received his account card and the issue with 
the address was identified. Mr V then located his card in the communal area of his 
building. Mr V was told how the address could be amended but he wasnt prepared to 
send the required information by post. I understood why Mr V was annoyed at the 
process and that this would have caused him some inconvenience, but I didnt think 
the request by Vanquis was unreasonable. Had Mr V sent the required information 
this could have resolved the issue and so I didnt think that Vanquis was required to 
pay compensation for this issue.
Mr V was then told that his account was suspended and would be closed following 
information Vanquis received. Further investigation showed that the account was 
suspended in error. 
Had the mistake not been made, Mr V wouldnt have had is account suspended 
when he did and closed. I noted our investigators comments that they thought Mr V 
would have ended the relationship with Vanquis anyway and that on the call Mr V 
said he wanted his application cancelled. However, this was when he was angry at 
being asked to post documents and he did then use the card. So, I dont think I could 
say that he would have ended the relationship had this issue not arisen.
Due to the issues and how long they had been ongoing I thought the relationship had 
broken down. Vanquis has the right to decide who it provides credit to and I noted 
that Mr Vs account has been transferred to a third party. I understood that Mr V wanted his account recalled but I didnt find that this was required or that Vanquis 
was required to reinstate Mr Vs account. 
The incorrect account suspension had a significant impact on Mr V. He explained his 
work and that any suggestion of fraud could have a major detrimental impact. While it 
had been confirmed there wasnt any adverse information being held I thought the 
initial suggestion would have caused significant upset. I also noted that Mr V then 
had to spend time doing a subject access request to identify what information may 
have been held on him. Therefore, I upheld this part of Mr Vs complaint and said he 
should be paid £250 because of the upset and inconvenience caused.
Mr V was concerned about the charges applied to his account and the adverse 
information that had been added to his credit file. I listened to the call on which Mr V 
complained about the September missed payment. He explained that he hadnt 
received the statement and that he couldnt access his account as Vanquis had 
blocked it. Given the outstanding issues on Mr Vs account at that time I understood 
why he was annoyed that he was charged for a missed payment. Given his account 
had been incorrectly blocked, I thought that the late payment charge for September 
should be removed from Mr Vs account and any marker applied for this payment 
removed from his credit file.
Going forward, Mr V didnt make his payments which resulted in further adverse 
information being recorded. Mr V had been told how to deal with the issue of his 
address amendment and in the letter dated 2 October 2020 he was told how he could 
make payments. Although Mr V was in dispute with Vanquis, it was his responsibility 
to make his payments. He didnt do this and so I didnt find I could say Vanquis did 
anything wrong by applying charges in line with its terms and conditions and 
recording the status of the account with the credit reference agencies.
Mr Vs account was transferred to a third party. Vanquis has the right to do this and I 
didnt find in this case Mr V had been treated unfairly because of this.
Overall, I agreed that Mr V hadnt received the service he should have. I said he should be 
paid £250 along with having the late payment charge from September 2020 removed. I didnt 
require Vanquis to amend Mr Vs credit file aside from the removal of the marker from 
September 2020.
Vanquis accepted my provisional decision. Mr V didnt. He said that had Vanquis not made 
mistakes none of the subsequent issues would have arisen. He reiterated that he believed 
the initial issue with the address was due to a Vanquis error. 
Mr V requested that the £250 compensation be used to settle his account (now with the third 
party) and the remainder paid to him. He also asked that once this had happened Vanquis 
action his request to erase all personal and sensitive data it holds about him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V raised several issues about the service he received from Vanquis and the impact this 
had on him. I appreciate him explaining his mental health conditions and I can understand 
how the stress caused by the issues in this complaint have caused him distress as well as 
inconvenience. I also note Mr Vs comments about his work and the impact that any 
accusation of fraud would have on this. However, as I set out in my provisional decision, in order to uphold the different parts of this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Vanquis 
has done something wrong.
In this case, while I note Mr Vs comments about the issue with the address, I have also 
taken into consideration the information provided by Vanquis. I listened to the call on which 
Mr V was told how the issue could be resolved and I dont think this was an unreasonable 
request. Because of this I do not find that Vanquis is required to pay compensation for this.
Mr Vs account was suspended in error and the information provided about this caused him 
significant distress, not least because of the potential impact on his work. He was also 
caused inconvenience because he needed to establish what, if any, information was being 
held on him. Because of this I think compensation is required and in this case I think £250 is 
reasonable. Vanquis has accepted this.
Regarding the information on Mr Vs credit file, as I explained in my provisional decision, I 
think the charge from September 2020 should be removed. However, as Mr V was then 
provided with the information he needed about making payments but chose not to do this, I 
do not find I can say that Vanquis was wrong to apply charges in line with its terms and to 
record the status of the account with the credit reference agencies.
Overall, while I note Mr V doesnt agree with my provisional decision, as no new information 
has been provided that changes my position, my conclusions remain that Mr V should be 
paid £250 compensation and have the September 2020 charge removed from his account 
and credit file.
Mr V asked for the compensation to be used to settle his debt which is now with a third party. 
We have contacted Vanquis about this and it has said that it can contact the third party and 
make the payment with any remaining amount going to Mr V but that this will take longer 
than processing the payment for Mr V and him then making the payment to the third party. 
Mr V also asked that once the remedies in this decision have been completed, that Vanquis 
remove any personal and sensitive data it holds on him. Vanquis has explained that it has 
obligations which mean it needs to retain certain information. Therefore, I find that Mr V 
should discuss this issue directly with Vanquis. 
Putting things right
Vanquis Bank Limited should refund Mr V the late payment charge from September 2020 
and remove this from his credit file. It should also pay Mr V £250 compensation for the upset 
caused by his account being suspended and closed in error. It should confirm with Mr V 
whether he wishes the payment to made directly to him or if he still wishes to have the 
payment made to the third party to settle his balance and any remaining amount paid to him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Vanquis Bank Limited should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman