DRN-3124299
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled recovery of claim costs 
after she made a claim under her home insurance policy. Shes also unhappy about the way 
it communicated with her.
What happened
Miss B made a claim to Aviva after a tradesman damaged her property. Aviva accepted the 
claim and paid Miss B £2,821 (£2,921 less the policy excess of £100). 
Miss B made Aviva aware that she needed letters to be written in large print, emails in at 
least font size 40 and only to be contacted by phone before 10 am or after 4pm.
Aviva said it would try to recover the claim costs from the tradesman and in August 2020 it 
instructed a solicitor to do so. 
In November 2020 Miss B complained to this service about the way Aviva handled the 
recovery process. In particular shes unhappy about poor communication, letters and emails 
not being sent in the requested format and delays.
In March 2021 Aviva decided it wasnt economically viable to continue with the recovery 
action.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She thought Aviva should send Miss B a letter 
of apology and pay her £300 for the trouble and upset it caused her.
As Miss B didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular Ive listened to recordings of calls between Miss B and Aviva and Miss B and 
our investigator.
Since the claim has been settled, I believe the only issue that remains is the amount of 
compensation Aviva should pay Miss B for the shortcomings in its service to her. So Ill focus 
on that.
Awards of compensation arent intended to fine or punish a business  thats the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, were looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its 
policy holder above and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated with a 
claim of this type.
Miss B has complained that Aviva failed to make reasonable adjustments when 
communicating with her. In other words it failed in its duty under the Equality Act 2010. Its 
not part of my role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for 
the courts. My role is to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order 
to decide that I have to take account of a number of things including relevant law. So Ive 
taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that its 
relevant law  but ultimately Ive decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable.
Its clear that in terms of accessibility Aviva and its solicitor didnt always comply with the 
request made by Miss B for emails and letters to be sent to her in the large font size she 
requires. Miss B also had to remind people during telephone calls to speak to her clearly and 
slowly. She asked them to call her but for a long time during lockdown Aviva wasnt able to 
comply with this request. Despite these lapses for the most part Im satisfied that Aviva tried 
to ensure that it made reasonable adjustments for Miss Bs needs. I can appreciate that 
when it didnt get it right, that would have been very frustrating for Miss B and Ill take that 
into account when looking at compensation. 
Avivas communication could also have been better in explaining to Miss B what the 
recovery process entailed. It did explain that it would try to recover the costs from the third 
party. But it didnt make it clear that its solicitors would be liaising with Miss B as part of that 
process and what would happen if that claim didnt succeed  for example that shed still 
have to pay the excess and that the claim would affect her no claims discount.
It was always up to Aviva as to whether it took action to try to recover the claim costs from 
the tradesman. When it became evident that the tradesman was unlikely to pay up unless 
Aviva took him to court, Aviva decided that it wasnt cost-effective to proceed any further. 
That process took about eight months. Miss B said she wasnt able to change insurer on 
renewal as a result of this because she still had an open claim. To its credit Aviva matched 
her previous years premium on renewal and kept her no claims discount. I think it treated 
Miss B fairly with regard to this.
I know Miss B is passionate about fighting for disability rights and feels strongly that Aviva 
and its solicitor should be required to change their procedures so that other customers with 
disability needs dont have a similar experience to hers. But thats the function of the 
regulator rather than this service. 
Putting things right
Knowing how strongly Miss B feels about the way shes been treated by Aviva, I do agree 
that an apology from it to her is in order since thats more important to Miss B than 
compensation. Having taken all the circumstances into account I think that compensation of 
£300 is fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused to her by Aviva. I appreciate 
that this will come as a disappointment to Miss B but Ive thought about this services 
approach to awards made in similar circumstances and I dont think I can fairly award any 
more. 
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to send a letter of apology to 
Miss B in the large print she requires and pay her compensation of £300 for trouble and 
upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman