DRN-1865391
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr P says National Westminster Bank Plc. Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
The PPI policy covered Mr P against being unable to work due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. In the event of a claim, the policy could have paid a monthly benefit of 10% 
of the outstanding balance for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr P disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
NatWest has been able to show us a copy of the original application form. I can see it has 
instructions to complete and send back to NatWest. So it looks like the type of form that 
could have been picked up in a branch to be completed and posted back to NatWest. But 
 Mr P says he recalls taking out the credit card in a branch of NatWest. NatWest has also 
said its records show the card was applied for in a branch.
The form has a section about PPI with boxes to accept or decline PPI. Mr P could have 
signed within either box. I can see the box to accept PPI has been signed by Mr P.
Mr P says he was told he needed to purchase the PPI in order to have the credit card 
application approved. But I cant see anything on the application form to suggest this. I also 
have to take into account that the PPI premiums appeared on Mr Ps monthly statements as 
Credit Card Repayment Protection until at least 2004. And if the PPI was something Mr P 
didnt want then Id expect him to have questioned the PPI premiums at an early stage. But 
Ive not seen any evidence that he did so.
I do accept it is possible Mr P was told that opting for PPI would aid his credit card 
application. But I also have to take into account that the meeting occurred over 22 years ago 
and is unlikely to have seemed very memorable at the time.
Overall I think its most likely NatWest made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI 
and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this after so 
many years.From experience I am aware that NatWest generally didnt give advice about these type of 
PPI policies. So I dont think NatWest recommended the PPI to Mr P. So it didnt have to 
check if it was right for him. But it did still have to make sure Mr P got the information he 
needed to decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible that NatWest didnt give all the information it should have done. But thats not 
enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Mr P would have 
changed his mind about buying the policy if he been given better or clearer information. I 
cant say he would have done. I say this because:
From what Ive seen Mr P chose to take out the policy, so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover.
Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time he was eligible for the policy. And 
it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For 
instance, Mr P didnt have any existing medical conditions that would not have been 
covered. So he could have made a successful claim if hed have needed to. It follows that 
any better information about the terms and conditions is unlikely to have put him off buying it.
Mr P worked for his family business. And if he had become too unwell to work he says he 
would have received full pay indefinitely. Ive thought about this and Ive no doubt the family 
business would have wanted to pay Mr P full pay for as long as he was off work sick. But the 
business would likely have incurred additional staff costs to cover his time off if Mr P was 
unable to work for a lengthy spell. So I still think Mr P would have found the monthly benefit 
useful if things went wrong.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
In summary I dont think the PPI was mis-sold as I think Mr P chose to take out the cover 
knowing he didnt have to. I think the information NatWest gave him couldve been clearer, 
but even if NatWest had given Mr P all the clear information it should have, I still think he 
would have bought the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont think the policy was mis-sold so I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman