DRN-2806638
The complaint
Mr L complains that Endsleigh Insurance Services Ltd didnt tell him that the escape of water 
excess on his property owners policy had increased. When Mr L subsequently made a claim 
for damage caused by an escape of water he was disappointed to receive a lower settlement 
from the insurer than he was expecting. 
What happened
Mr L is a lessee and a director of a management company that took out a property owners 
insurance policy through Endsleigh, a broker. The policy was renewed in June 2019 with 
renewal documents being sent out in May 2019 which included a letter (stating that 
Endsleigh worked with just one insurer), a renewal invitation, a statement of fact and a 
renewal schedule. Page one of the schedule included information about policy 
endorsements. It stated: Increased Escape of Water excess  we will not be liable for the 
first £500 of each and every claim caused by contingency 10, escape of water. In previous 
policy years the escape of water excess had been £200.
The insurer also issued a Notice to Policyholder explaining the increase to the escape of 
water policy excess which Endsleigh included within the renewal documents. 
The policy premium was paid on 17 June 2019 and it renewed on 20 June 2019. 
On 18 June 2020, Mr L made a claim on the policy for damage caused to his floor by an 
escape of water from a broken toilet cistern. On receiving settlement for the claim Mr L was 
surprised to find hed received £300 less that he was expecting. He queried the figure with 
the insurer and was told the applicable policy excess was £500, not £200. 
Mr L complained to Endsleigh that it had failed to notify him about the increased escape of 
water excess on the policy and that he was £300 out of pocket as a consequence. Endsleigh 
looked into Mr Ls complaint and issued him with a final response letter. It said it didnt think 
itd done anything wrong as itd told him prior to the June 2019 renewal that the excess was 
increasing to £500 for escape of water claims. And Endsleigh said that the 2020 renewal 
schedule stated that Excess B was £500 which related to escape of water claims.
In response to Endsleighs findings Mr L said he accepted hed been told about the 
increased excess in 2019 but that the 2020 renewal documents hadnt included this 
information and, in fact, indicated the escape of water excess was £200. Mr L then brought 
his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ls complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She 
thought that Endsleigh had made it clear across more than one communication that the 
excess was increasing to £500 in 2019. Mr L responded to our investigator to say that 
Endsleigh had provided him with incorrect documentation at the 2020 renewal because the 
policy schedule merely listed the policy excesses as A, B and C which were £200, £500 and 
£1,000 respectively but nowhere did it state which contingencies (insured events) did each 
of the three excesses apply to. 
Our investigator asked Endsleigh to explain where in the 2020 policy documents did it 
explain which excess applied to which contingency. Endsleigh replied and said that itd 
informed the insurer that nowhere in the documents had it provided that information. It said it 
hoped the insurer amended its documents. Finally, Endsleigh said that if Mr L wanted to 
complaint about the 2020 renewal then he would need to make a separate complaint so it 
could investigate. 
Mr L asked for his complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has explained to Mr L, I can only consider here the complaint he made to 
Endsleigh (and which it issued its final response to in October 2020) that it hadnt told him 
about the increased escape of water excess and that he was £300 out of pocket as a result. 
I know that after Endsleigh issued its final response, Mr L said that the 2020 renewal 
documents hadnt made it clear that there was a £500 policy excess for escape of water 
claims for the forthcoming policy year but Im afraid that I cant look at that complaint here. 
Mr L must first complain to Endsleigh about the 2020 renewal documents it issued him with 
and it must be given the opportunity to investigate that complaint. If Mr L is dissatisfied with 
the outcome of Endsleighs investigation then he can bring a further complaint to this 
service. 
Turning now to this complaint, I can see that Mr L did accept, in response to Endsleighs 
findings, that he had been told about the increased excess at the 2019 renewal. That being 
the case, that was the applicable excess when he made his escape of water claim almost a 
year later. From the evidence Ive seen, and to which Ive referred above, it was made clear 
across more than one of the documents Endsleigh sent as part of the 2019 renewal, that the 
escape of water excess was increasing to £500. So Im satisfied that Endsleigh did what it 
was required to do in these circumstances. 
And I cant look here at the decision to increase the escape of water excess because thats a 
matter for the insurer. Endsleigh is Mr Ls broker and is responsible for the administration of 
the policy. And in this role Im satisfied it communicated the insurers decision to increase the 
excess clearly to Mr L. As Mr L accepted the terms as offered in 2019, making payment just 
before the renewal date, I can only assume he was happy with them as presented. 
It follows that I cant reasonably uphold Mr Ls complaint. I think, taking all the circumstances 
into account, that Endsleigh has treated him fairly by communicating the increase in the 
escape of water excess to him prior to the policy renewing in June 2019. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman