DRN-2221631
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the way Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Bank of Scotland  BoS) 
handled her request for a replacement debit card.
What happened
Mrs H said she called BoS on 2 December 2019 to request a replacement debit card, and 
asked for it to be non-contactless. She said she had to call again a few days later as it hadnt 
arrived. She said she was told by BoS that a contactless card had been ordered, so a new 
non-contactless card had to be reordered, and would arrive in 3-5 working days.
Mrs H was unhappy with the delay, as she said she was unable to make a large purchase, 
and had to borrow money from her son to tide her over. She was also unhappy at the length 
of time she had to spend on the phone and the cost of the calls, so she complained to BoS.
 
In their final response letter (FRL), BoS didnt uphold her complaints. The FRL said she 
hadnt ordered a replacement debit card during her call on 2 December 2019, but did do on 
5 December 2019, and had requested that it be non-contactless. It sent this out within the 3-
5 working days it said it would. It apologised if she had to wait on the telephone, but didnt 
think it had done anything wrong, so would not cover the call costs.
Mrs H didnt agree, so brought her complaint to our service. But our investigator didnt 
uphold her complaint. She thought that Mrs H had only requested a replacement card on 
5 December 2019, and could see it was sent out within the timescales BoS had promised. 
And although Mrs H had called BoS several times, she didnt think BoS should be asked to 
pay for the call costs.
Mrs H didnt accept the investigators view, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think it is important to explain how I come to a decision such as this. Where there is 
conflicting information available, as there is in this case, I need to decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened on the balance of probability. For example, Mrs H is certain that she 
called BoS and discussed getting a replacement card on a specific date. So, I have to 
balance her recollection of several conversations that she had many months ago, with the 
recordings of the calls held by BoS. 
And having considered all the available evidence, Ive decided Im not going to uphold 
Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs H has said she remembers calling BoS on 2 December 2019 and asking for a 
replacement non-contactless card as she had lost hers. I agree she did call on that day, but 
having listened to a recording of it there was no such request made, rather she asks about 
her balance and extending her overdraft. And she called again on 4 December 2019, and 
during this call gave BoS the last four numbers of the card, which leads me to think it is likely 
that she hadnt lost it at that point, and had it with her for that call.
Ive heard recordings of two calls she made to BoS on 5 December 2019. And it was during 
both these calls that she said she had lost the card. She requested a replacement non-
contactless card, and was told it would be sent to her within 3-5 working days. And Ive seen 
evidence that she used the new card on 11 December 2019, which satisfies me that she 
received it within the 3-5 working days BoS said she would.
In relation to the cost of the calls she made to BoS, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to require BoS to cover this cost. The calls she made were in relation to 
replacing a card she had lost, and as Ive said above, Im satisfied BoS havent done 
anything wrong here. So I dont think theres any reason why BoS should have to reimburse 
the cost of these calls.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman