DRN-3119639
The complaint
 Mr C has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
 
What happened
  TFS Loans provided Mr C with a guarantor loan on 28 December 2017. The loan amount 
was for £7500 and he was required to repay £317.75 a month over 4 years.  
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that TFS Loans unfairly 
provided this loan. She concluded that although she felt it had gathered enough information, 
it couldve used the information gathered in a better way. She said TFS Loans didnt make a 
fair lending decision when it agreed the loan.
TFS Loans disagrees with our investigators view and says it carried out proportionate 
checks and then went on to make a fair lending decision. So as the parties are still not in 
agreement, Mr Cs complaint has been passed to me an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
- including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr Cs complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
When TFS Loans lent to Mr C, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
TFS Loans was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Cs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
TFS Loans had to consider both the risk to it that Mr C wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr C of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, TFS Loans had to consider Mr Cs ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
his financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr 
Cs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did TFS Loans make a fair lending decision?
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were the checks that TFS Loans carried out reasonable and proportionate?
I have looked through the documents submitted and by doing this I have managed to obtain 
an understanding of what happened when it agreed to lend to Mr C. I can see that it verified 
Mr Cs income by checking bank statements. It could see that on average Mr Cs monthly 
income was £1577.67. It also asked Mr C about his expenses, looked through bank 
statements and used a credit search to check for his credit commitments. It says after it did 
this, it worked out Mr Cs disposable income and says it could see that he could afford the 
loan repayments. 
Ive carefully considered what TFS Loans has said and on the surface of it, it had assessed 
Mr C to have enough disposable income to afford the loans. On this occasion, I think it 
carried out enough checks and gathered enough information in order to make a decision to 
lend to Mr C.
But it also needed to act on any information that it would have gathered and make a fair 
lending decision based on what it had in front of it. So, I need to go on and consider whether 
it did this.
Did TFS make a fair lending decision?
Ive concluded the checks TFS Loans carried out, on balance were proportionate. But I dont 
think TFS Loans made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr C, based on what it had in 
front of it. I say this because when I look through the credit search TFS Loans carried out, I can see 
that it shows Mr C was having problems managing his finances. 
The search showed that Mr C had within 6 months applied for and accrued over £12,000 of 
credit. He had a large loan that he had taken out over 4 years alongside two short term loans 
with other finance providers. I can see that the total amount that he would need to repay to 
these creditors was over 50% of his monthly income and this was before taking into 
consideration the loan repayment for this loan. In addition, I can also see Mr C was having 
problems repaying his credit commitments. He was in arrears with one of the short-term 
loans, the credit card and had a recent history of arrears with his larger loan.   
I think it would have been clear from these search results that Mr C wasnt managing to 
repay his debt, and this resulted in him accruing arrears. When I consider this alongside the 
amount he was paying towards credit every month, I think on balance, it shows that he was 
having problems managing his finances. I think, when I consider this, I think that it was 
unlikely that Mr C could repay further credit sustainably without experiencing more adverse 
consequences. 
So, I conclude that based on what TFS Loans had in front of it, it would have seen Mr C 
wouldnt have been able to make repayments in a sustainable way.  
As Mr C has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on the 
loan that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a 
result of what TFS Loans did wrong.
So, it follows that TFS Loans needs to put things right.
Putting things right
  In line with this Services approach, Mr C shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. With this in mind, TFS Loans should:
add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Mr C made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr C was given should be treated as 
overpayments and refunded to him;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr C to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Cs credit file because of the loan;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint about TFS Loans Limited 
and it now needs to put things right in the way set out above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman