DRN-3400365
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that AXIS Speciality Europe SE declined a 
claim it made on its machinery movement and contractors plant policies.
Reference to AXIS or S includes things said and done by their respective agents and 
representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
S was contracted to move two presses for its customer. It carried out a risk 
assessment and prepared a method statement for the operation. Each press was to 
be dismantled at one location, lifted onto a transporter using a forklift truck, and 
moved to another location. S hired the forklift truck from a third party company.
The first press was moved successfully. Whilst the second press was being lifted, the 
forklift truck fell over. The press and the forklift were both damaged.
S got in touch with AXIS, who provided cover under two policies  one for damage 
caused whilst moving machinery and the other for liability for hired equipment.
AXIS declined the claim under both policies. It noted S had carried out a method 
statement for the lifts, but it didnt think they were sufficiently detailed or accurate. 
And it found S had deviated from the method statement during the second lift. It said 
S actions amounted to wilful neglect, which is excluded from the policy, and 
breached the policy condition requiring S to take reasonable precautions.
S didnt think this was fair and complained. Amongst other things, it said it hadnt 
deliberately caused damage and it had produced an appropriate method statement. It 
also said it hadnt acted recklessly when carrying out the second lift, because it 
hadnt recognised the risk of using the alternative method.
Our investigator thought AXIS had acted fairly. As the method statement hadnt been 
followed during the second lift, she was satisfied S had acted recklessly and hadnt 
taken reasonable precautions.
S disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXIS has relied on two policy terms to decline the claim:
The policy excludes damage caused by your wilful act or wilful neglect.
A policy condition requires S to take reasonable precautions to prevent accidents 
and to safeguard any insured property against damage.
There are two separate policies that could be relevant to this claim. One is for damage 
caused whilst moving machinery and the other for liability for hired equipment. The same two 
policy terms are found in both policies. I understand AXIS considers it can fairly decline the 
claim under both policies by relying on these two terms.
Theres been some discussion about a previous claim in similar circumstances. I dont think 
AXIS has relied on this point when declining the current claim, so I havent considered it.
AXIS says S method statement lacked detail and contained incorrect information. S 
disagrees and has made a number of counter points. But AXIS main reason for declining 
the claim is that the first lift followed the statement and was successful. That means the 
statement, even if it could have been better, had been successful for the first lift.
AXIS argues that using an unplanned and undocumented approach, and disregarding the 
statement didnt amount to taking reasonable precautions and/or was wilfully neglectful. 
Looking at all the information provided by both parties, I consider this to be a compelling 
argument.
Its not in doubt that both vehicles were damaged as a result of the way the second lift was 
carried out  or that it deviated significantly from the method statement. I havent seen 
anything to show or explain why such a deviation was undertaken without a new method 
statement being produced. Im not persuaded it would be fair to describe the deviation as 
taking reasonable precautions to prevent accidents. On the contrary, it seems to have 
increased the risk of an accident by carrying out a lift method that hadnt been planned for, 
despite the existing method being successful for the first lift.
S has noted case law about taking reasonable precautions. In summary, it says one must 
recognise a risk  and not take appropriate steps to mitigate it  in order to be considered to 
have acted recklessly. S says it didnt see a risk in the method it used for the second lift, so it 
cant be considered to have acted recklessly. But the method statement was, in my view, 
recognition that there was a risk and set out how to mitigate it. I dont think deviating from the 
planned method, without any particular reason for doing so and without making new plans, 
amounts to taking reasonable precautions as required by the policy condition.
Because Ive been persuaded by AXIS argument that S didnt meet the policy condition 
when it changed the lift method  and this directly caused the damage  I wont need to 
consider the method statement itself in detail. Even if I agreed with all of S points and 
accepted the statement amounted to taking reasonable precautions, I would still consider 
that deviating from it breached the policy condition.
Overall, Im satisfied AXIS acted fairly when it declined the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
James NevilleOmbudsman