DRN-1150634
 
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Broadsure Direct Limited. He feels that it didnt pass on the 
correct information about his driving history which meant his theft claim wasnt dealt with 
under his commercial motor insurance claim.
What happened
Mr W took out insurance through his broker Broadsure in November 2018 for his new van. 
Unfortunately he was the victim of crime and his van was stolen. But Mr Ws insurer wouldnt 
pay the claim as it said he hadnt disclosed his true claims history. Mr W had five claims but 
only one had been recorded.
Broadsure said Mr W had only told it about one claim and Mr W had signed to confirm this 
on the statement of fact that was sent to him. So Mr W complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought 
Broadsure had asked clear questions about Mr Ws driving and claims history and passed 
that information onto his insurer on Mr Ws behalf.
As Mr W didnt agree the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mr W is frustrated as he feels he told Broadsure about his true driving 
history and has had his theft claim turned down. But, having considered all the information 
on file and listened to the calls when Mr W took the policy out, I dont think Broadsure has 
done anything wrong.
Ive listened to the calls from the time Mr W took out the policy and I can understand why he 
feels he told Broadsure about another claim. I think at one stage that Mr W is talking about a 
different claim. But the call taker believes he is talking about the fault claim from January 
2017 (the only claim that was disclosed to the insurer). Either way, Mr W had a further claim 
from 2016 that wasnt his fault but still required disclosing.
The call taker asked Mr W if he had any other claims or incidents after they spoke about one 
of the fault claims during the call. And Mr W said he didnt when he shouldve disclosed the 
fact that he had at least three claims (two fault and one non-fault) and he had two 
windscreen claims. I dont think it wouldve been clear to Mr W that he needed to disclose 
the windscreen claims in this call, but I do think he shouldve told Broadsure about the three 
motoring claims.
Furthermore, Mr W didnt correct the statement of fact when he received it alongside his policy documentation. The statement of fact summarises the details Mr W provided in the 
sales call and asks Mr W to check it. The document only showed one fault claim so I 
wouldve expected Mr W to correct the document, as he did with some other details on the 
statement of fact, before returning it to Broadsure.
So, as Mr W had a duty as a commercial customer to make a fair representation and 
Broadsure asked clear questions about his claims history, I dont think it did anything wrong 
and it provided Mr Ws insurer with the information he provided.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman