DRN-2677944
The complaint
Mr H says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma Loans, irresponsibly lent to 
him. He says the loans were unaffordable when he took them out as he was using other 
short term loans to make ends meet. He thinks that Satsuma didnt carry out robust 
affordability checks.  If it had done it wouldve seen this and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about two payday loans Satsuma provided to Mr H between October and 
November 2017.
loan number date started amount borrowed term (months) date ended
1 21/10/2017 £1,000 3 24/01/2018
2 27/11/2017 £1,250 3 05/03/2018
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that the checks Satsuma had made 
were proportionate given the circumstances. And so it was reasonable to lend to Mr H. 
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that Satsuma had not accurately 
found out about his income or expenditure. He provided information about this which 
included further detail about his income patterns.  He also provided his bank statements. 
Our adjudicator didnt change her opinion about the complaint. As no agreement has been 
reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Broadly speaking, this all means that Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it 
didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate 
checks to make sure Mr H could repay their loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, 
there may come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
For loan 1 Mr H needed to make three repayments of just under £500. Loan 2 also had three 
repayments of just over £600. 
Ive seen a record of the information Mr H provided when he completed his loan application. 
Mr H said he had a monthly income of £4,000 and he had regular monthly outgoings of 
£825. Satsuma increased his outgoings due to some information it saw in the credit checks it 
did. But even after these adjustments, Mr H still had a disposable income for each loan of 
around £2,500. So, it was reasonable for Satsuma to think the loan repayments were 
affordable for Mr H. 
Mr H has said that the income Satsuma used may not have been correct and it should have 
used a lower amount. But Satsuma did look at Mr Hs payslips at the time. And whilst I can 
see his pay did vary, for example when he worked overseas, I dont think the amounts 
Satsuma used were unreasonable. 
Mr H has provided some detail about his financial circumstances. And I accept he did have 
some other lending and some financial problems. But this was early in the lending 
relationship, so I dont think its reasonable to say that Satsuma needed to make the kind of 
in depth checks at this time that wouldve likely uncovered this. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Satsuma was made aware of any 
financial problems Mr H mightve been having. Or anything else that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Mr Hs circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to rely on 
the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Satsuma did for these loans 
were proportionate. And I think its decision to lend for was reasonable. Im not upholding 
Mr Hs complaint about them. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman