DRN-3145329
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt identify unusual activity on their 
bank account. And they were also given incorrect advice by the bank.
 
What happened
Mr J and Mrs J have a joint bank account with Lloyds. 
On the 10 September 2019 Mr J and Mrs J received a text message from Lloyds informing 
them they were in their overdraft. Mr J and Mrs J were confused as they didnt expect to be 
in their overdraft. They checked their bank statement and then contacted Lloyds where they 
were advised they were overdrawn and discovered several transactions had been carried 
out without their knowledge. 
They advised Lloyds that their son, who has learning disabilities, must have gained access 
to their card and carried out some transactions without their knowledge. In total 16 
transactions were carried out to an online retailer, Ill call B, totalling almost £4,000. 
However, Mr J and Mrs J explained to Lloyds that they didnt want the matter looked into as 
fraud. 
On speaking with Lloyds Mr J and Mrs J were initially informed that because the transactions 
to B were carried out by continuous payment authority, theyd get most of their money back. 
But Lloyds later accepted this was an error  and the transactions were in fact individually 
authorised. 
Mr J and Mrs J werent happy with the service they received from Lloyds, that Lloyds hadnt 
identified the suspicious transactions and that the bank had also allowed transactions to go 
through after they notified them. 
The bank looked into Mr J and Mrs Js complaint and partially upheld it. The bank explained 
they couldnt look into the fraud, as Mr J and Mrs J didnt want an investigation carried out. 
However they accepted theyd provided incorrect advice about the continuous payment 
authority, and offered £150 compensation in recognition of the impact caused. 
Mr J and Mrs J didnt accept Lloyds response so complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr J and Mrs Js complaint, but thought that Lloyds had 
reached a fair resolution. They thought because Mr J and Mrs J didnt want a fraud 
investigation Lloyds werent able to fairly assess or explain if or why the transactions didnt 
trigger their fraud prevention system. And therefore he couldnt ask them to refund the 
transactions. He also concluded the £150 offered by Lloyds was fair. This has since been 
paid to Mr J and Mrs J. 
Mr J and Mrs J didnt accept our investigators recommendation and in response they said:
They havent suggested that fraudulent transactions have taken place.
They think that insufficient consideration has been given to the frequency and nature 
of the transactions. And believe that Lloyds detection systems should have identified 
the transactions as unusual. 
As Mr J and Mrs J didnt accept our investigators recommendation its been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J and Mrs J are unhappy that Lloyds didnt identify the unusual activity which took place 
on their account. And theyd like Lloyds to accept the transactions should have triggered 
their fraud prevention system and to refund them. However, Mr J and Mrs J havent raised a 
fraud investigation with Lloyds and dont want one to be carried out. 
I understand this will disappoint Mr J and Mrs J but without Lloyds being able to carry out a 
full investigation its not possible for our service to properly assess whether Lloyds fraud 
detection system worked properly here. Even if I did conclude that the bank should have 
identified these transactions were unusual, because Mr J and Mrs J arent reporting this as 
fraud I cant say that Lloyds contacting them  to advise of the unusual activity  would have 
prevented the transactions. Therefore I cant say any potential failure on Lloyds part 
impacted Mr J and Mrs J. I appreciate this is likely frustrating for Mr J and Mrs J but without 
them raising a fraud case with Lloyds Im unable to determine whether the activity should 
have triggered Lloyds fraud detection system and if they should refund the transactions or 
not. 
Ive moved on to consider the advice given by Lloyds when Mr J and Mrs J contacted them 
on the 10 September 2021. And whether the bank allowed further transactions to be carried 
out to B, following the phone call. Firstly Id like to reassure Mr J and Mrs J here  I cant see 
any transactions were carried out to B after they contacted Lloyds. However, I do agree that 
they were incorrectly advised that the transactions to B were carried out via continuous 
payment authority and therefore the money would be refunded. I think this likely caused 
them some distress on learning this wasnt the case. Im satisfied that the £150 already paid 
is appropriate compensation for this.
For the reasons Ive outlined above I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further here. Id 
advise Mr J and Mrs J, if they believe these transactions were carried out without their 
consent to inform Lloyds to allow them to complete a fraud investigation. This will enable 
Lloyds to decide whether they think Mr J and Mrs J are entitled to a refund under the 
relevant legislation, the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman