DRN-3821182
The complaint
Mr M complains that his application with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money failed 
at a late stage because he wanted a mortgage only in his name. He previously had a joint 
mortgage with his wife. Virgin wouldnt lend unless she gave up her rights to the property.
What happened
Mr Ms complaint was brought by a representative, who also acted as his broker for this 
mortgage. 
Mr Ms broker said that Mr M wanted to change how his mortgage was held, at the same 
time as remortgaging. I understand that Mr Ms wife was previously named on the mortgage, 
as well as being on the deeds. The broker said the mortgage application that was submitted 
to Virgin was clear that she would continue to live there, but late in the application process, 
Virgin asked her to confirm that she was giving up all rights to the property and would move 
out, which she wasnt willing to do. 
When Mr M complained about this, Virgin said that lending to Mr M, in these particular 
circumstances, would breach its lending policy. And it said the broker should have been 
aware that this particular criterion was part of its lending policy. The broker said hed 
repeatedly asked for written evidence of this policy, but Virgin never provided that. And he 
said the lender absolutely refused to proceed on the basis that Mr M wanted. So the broker 
said he placed the lending elsewhere. 
The broker said that Mr M faced increased costs because of this. His fixed interest rate deal 
was coming to an end, and because of the delays caused by the failed application to Virgin, 
he had to pay the standard variable rate (SVR) on his mortgage for two months, while the 
broker arranged a different mortgage for him. This was around £740 per month more than 
Mr M was expecting to pay with Virgin. And the broker said he charged Mr M for the second 
application, which was an extra cost for Mr M too. Mr M wanted Virgin to pay around £2,000 
to cover these extra costs. 
The broker said he complained, and on 2 December Virgin refused to uphold the complaint. 
When our service asked Virgin about this, it sent us a final response letter, matching that 
which Mr Ms broker shared with us, dated 2 December. This letter said Virgin hadnt spotted 
that Mr Ms wife had been named on his previous mortgage, because it didnt carry out a 
credit check on him. Virgin said if it had been told when the application was submitted that 
Mr Ms wife had been named on the previous mortgage, it would have refused to lend. 
Virgin said it had been in touch with Mr M since, to see if he wanted it to ask its underwriters 
for an exception to its usual policy, but by then Mr M had another mortgage in place. 
Virgin didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator contacted Virgin to ask some further questions, including how the broker 
would have been aware of Virgins policy, and to confirm that it hadnt completed any credit 
check, for what was a sizeable mortgage. Virgin didnt reply.
Our investigator then reached his view. He thought Virgin had applied its lending criteria 
correctly, and our investigator hadnt seen any evidence that Virgin would have been aware 
sooner that Mrs M was party to the earlier mortgage. So he didnt think this complaint should 
be upheld. 
Mr Ms broker replied on his behalf, to object. He said that he had checked, and he still 
wasnt able to access the part of the policy that Virgin referred to. He said he had also asked 
Virgin a direct question about this recently, and been told that a joint mortgage could be 
turned into a single mortgage, and both of the parties previously named on the mortgage 
could continue to reside there, if the party not on the mortgage also came off the deeds. 
Mr Ms broker also said Virgin had chosen not to ask if the previous mortgage was in joint 
names  he said most other lenders do ask about this  and there wasnt even anywhere the 
broker could have noted this on the application. Mr Ms broker said Virgin thought this was 
an unusual situation, but other lenders didnt, and hed had no trouble getting lending 
elsewhere for Mr M. Mr Ms broker also didnt believe that Virgin had offered to ask its 
underwriters about a policy exception. He wanted us to reconsider. 
Mr M also wrote to endorse what his broker had said, and to ask for an ombudsman to 
consider this complaint. The case was then passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr M wanted to remortgage in his sole name, but his wife, who had previously been named 
on the mortgage (and presumably was also named on the deeds) would no longer be on the 
mortgage. She was, however, proposing to remain in the property. Mr M told us this was just 
because of a change in their employment situations. 
I understand that Mr Ms broker doesnt think this is an unusual arrangement, but I do think it 
is somewhat unusual. A mortgage, is, at its simplest, lending secured on a property. I think 
its reasonable for Virgin to want to be sure that it had first call on the security Mr M was 
offering for its lending. But here, I think it would be reasonable for Virgin to be concerned 
that its security might be affected by rights Mrs M might have over the property. 
Virgin has explained to our service that its underlying policy is not to lend on properties 
which are moving from joint mortgage to single mortgage, unless the spouse no longer 
resides in the property, and ownership is changed to the sole name of the person taking out 
the mortgage. I dont think thats an unreasonable thing for Virgin to have said here, and I 
dont think that Virgin had to lend on this property in the way that Mr M wanted.
I know that Virgin made an offer, and then withdrew this. But I think that Virgin was entitled, 
under the special conditions set out in the offer, to withdraw this once it realised that it was 
lending on a fundamentally different basis than it had previously understood. And I dont 
think it was unfair or unreasonable for Virgin to do that.There is then a question about whether Virgin should have realised sooner, that Mr M 
previously had a joint mortgage with Mrs M, and that put him outside of Virgins lending 
policy. This application was made in July, and an offer made later that month. Its not clear at 
what point, after the offer, this concern first came to light. We do know there was some 
discussion between the solicitors and Mr and Mrs M. And Mr Ms broker said an impasse 
was reached, because Mrs M wouldnt give up her rights to the property. The solicitors then 
wrote at the end of August to check whether Virgin was happy to proceed, although the 
solicitors now understood Mrs M wasnt moving out. 
Mr M says that this delay cost him money, because he had to go onto his existing lenders 
SVR for a short time while he obtained lending elsewhere.
Mr Ms mortgage application did say that Mrs M intended to continue living in the property. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Virgin would have rejected this application solely 
because Mrs M was residing there too. Mr Ms application didnt make clear that Mrs M had 
previously been named on the mortgage. 
Mr Ms broker said he understood this from the start, and suggested that Virgin should have 
realised this much sooner. Hes said that other lenders do ask about this, and sought to 
explain that theres nowhere on the application form that he could have alerted Virgin to this. 
I also note that I havent been able to see that Mr Ms broker ought to have been aware of 
the underlying lending criteria that Virgin later pointed to. 
But Mr Ms broker does seem to have been aware that other lenders would ask about this. 
And, although I know Mr Ms broker disputes this, I do think this is an unusual arrangement 
for Mr and Mrs M to have reached. So its not clear why Mr Ms broker didnt contact Virgin at 
the start to alert it to this, and to check it would be content to proceed with this mortgage.
I think that was, unfortunately, a missed opportunity to avoid the problems which then arose. 
And I think thats the main reason that Mr M faced higher costs, through the late rejection of 
his mortgage application. 
Mr Ms broker said that Virgin should have realised that Mr M had previously held a 
mortgage jointly with his wife almost straight away, when it looked at his credit file. But Virgin 
has said it didnt do a credit check on Mr M. 
It seems to me to be most unlikely that Virgin wouldnt have looked at all at Mr Ms financial 
background before agreeing to take on his existing mortgage, and also to increase his 
lending by almost 10%. But I think its likely that all Virgin meant, when it said it hadnt 
carried out a check on Mr Ms credit file, was that it had simply checked Mr Ms credit score, 
and marked him as a low risk as a result of this. 
That would explain why Virgin didnt carry out a full, detailed credit check  because it didnt 
have any concerns at all about Mr Ms financial standing. And that would also explain why it 
didnt realise, until some time later, that Mr Ms previous mortgage had been held jointly with 
his wife. This is also consistent with the notes I can see on Mr Ms mortgage application, 
which say he is low risk.
I know that Mr Ms broker has said that it took a long time for Virgin to reach the view that it 
wouldnt lend to Mr M. So Mr M didnt have a new mortgage in place by the end of August, 
and had to start the mortgage process again. But what hes told us suggests that there was 
some correspondence back and forth between Mr and Mrs M and the solicitors about this. I 
think that, in the context of a mortgage which was agreed towards the end of July and was 
being prepared for the very end of August, its not surprising if a significant issue like this, emerging at quite a late stage, means that theres then not enough time to complete a 
remortgage elsewhere before the deadline.
(I should also note that although the solicitors were appointed by, and paid for by, Virgin, 
they dont work exclusively for Virgin. They also work for Mr M in his remortgage. So even if 
Id seen evidence of delays caused by the solicitors, I couldnt simply assign those delays to 
Virgin, in the way Mr Ms broker has suggested.)
When our investigator reached his view, Mr M sent us the content of a live chat, which hed 
carried out after receiving the view. That suggested Virgin would allow a move from a joint 
mortgage to sole, with the person previously on the title remaining in the property. If this had 
been dated before Mr Ms application, then I think this would be relevant evidence. But it 
wasnt, and neither Mr M nor his broker relied on this in putting in an application. So I dont 
think this more recent mistake by Virgin helps Mr M. 
I know that Mr M and his representative will both be disappointed, but for the reasons set out 
above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman