DRN-4015405
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy about the claims handling, service, and settlement of a water damage 
claim. The home insurance policy is provided by Aviva Insurance Limited.
I will refer to Miss G throughout, but Miss G is dealing with matters on behalf of her family 
and her late fathers estate.
To avoid confusion as much as possible Ill refer to Aviva rather than its contractors, 
representatives, and individuals throughout the decision.
What happened
Miss G contacted Aviva in January 2021 when a water leak under the kitchen floor led to 
problems with the dishwasher. Aviva appointed experts to visit the property and assess the 
claim. Due to the health issues and vulnerabilities of Miss G and her family in March Aviva 
assigned an individual point of contact to deal with the claim and keep Miss G up to date. 
Also, in view of the family vulnerabilities Aviva agreed to allow this service to review all 
elements of the complaint up to September 2022 which is beyond the scope of the original 
complaint  December 2021.
There were telephone discussions between Miss G and Aviva about the issues in late March 
2021. The base kitchen units would need to be removed to allow the damaged floor tiles to 
be taken up and the flooring replaced. There would also need to some drying out, removal of 
contents, and consideration for the absence of cooking and cleaning facilities in the kitchen. 
Aviva accepted this would be problematic for the family so talked about the various ways 
around this with Miss G to find a way forward that would work for her and the family. One of 
the options offered by Aviva was to pay a cash settlement to Miss G to allow her and the 
family to arrange repairs that suited them. But during these discussions Miss G was clear 
that she wanted Aviva to do the work.
A £10 food/disturbance allowance was agreed per day for each member of the family, and 
payment towards a portable hob to allow temporary cooking facilities to be maintained 
downstairs in the dining room. Due to the washer/dryer being out of action Aviva said it 
would cover invoices for laundry costs too. This was all to be paid while the work was being 
completed. Miss G wanted to stay at the home address due to the suitable facilities and 
because carers looking after the family were committed to this address.
Aviva also confirmed the things it wouldnt do as these werent part of the water leak and 
werent covered by the claim. This included the electrics, walls and ceiling that had suffered 
damage by other means and the wear and tear impacting the condition of the kitchen units. 
Aviva followed up with an email reiterating all the points covered off and the inconvenience 
that was going to occur, so Miss G was aware of the issues.
Work was agreed to start in early April. Miss G confirmed she wanted the insurance work 
done before she sorted out the electrics. Aviva confirmed in mid May that any issues caused 
by its contractors removing kitchen carcasses it would deal with by paying for replacements 
for each unit and not for a full new kitchen. The original kitchen doors would be refitted, and 
Miss G agreed to this in mid June. Storage of the kitchen contents and carcasses was also 
agreed.
After this Aviva was responsible for some delays. The work was meant to start in August and 
Miss G complained to Aviva, it accepted it was to blame and agreed to refund the policy 
excess of £250 which Miss G accepted. Aviva also provided a schedule of works timetable 
and a new start date for the work.
In November the kitchen removal took place, but Miss G then declined access to do the 
replacement. The schedule of works timetable had shown that the work would all be done 
together at the same time. Aviva said: We were led to believe that we would be provided 
continuous access and allowed for disruption payments based on this. The health difficulties 
the insured has suggested preventing us from completing the works is unfortunate however 
on a number of occasions we provided the insured with the option for cash settling the claim 
so they could complete it in their own time. They have ignored this option. Based on the 
information from the insured we programmed to finish the work in a reasonable time and not 
to have an open ended disruption cost.
I understand that Miss G will feel the way Aviva has put this is harsh. But it also shows that 
Aviva had planned to conclude the strip out and replacement of the kitchen as per the 
schedule of works and the time line it gave her. I have to accept this is a reasonable way of 
Aviva concluding claims. I dont think its unreasonable for it to work in this way and that Miss 
G was aware this was going to happen. It also shows Aviva had set aside an amount for the 
food/disturbance allowance based on the immediate replacement of the kitchen. Aviva 
wasnt intending to pay food/disturbance costs to Miss G and her family for an extended 
period.
Miss G was upset that the kitchen wasnt taken away for storage instead it was left 
uncovered and open to the elements in the garden. Aviva confirmed the carcasses, doors 
and appliances left outside would be replaced. But it had said in advance there might be 
problems removing the items and the removal might cause damage. It had also confirmed in 
advance that if any of the units or appliances were damaged in removal these would be 
covered for replacement under the policy. In the end this was why the items were left without 
cover in the garden and not moved to storage  they were damaged whilst being removed. 
Aviva continued to send emails checking for agreement to start again on the next stages. 
Miss G wasnt happy with all of the contractors who had been involved in the works and 
Aviva agreed to adjust the contractors to suit her needs. Further delays occurred here 
although Aviva were actively chasing Miss G for updates. Miss G said her family had further 
health issues at this point, and she told Aviva neither her nor other family members were 
well enough to cook. Miss G said the £10 allowance wasnt enough, needed to be higher 
and Miss G said Aviva should replace the whole kitchen and pay for the walls to be plastered 
and painted. Miss G said she wasnt in a position to arrange further dates due to the health 
problems in the family.
So, Miss G was now relying fully on the temporary cooking facilities. Miss G questioned 
Aviva about the replacement kitchen doors and it confirmed any replacement doors fitted 
would match the existing doors. But it also said it had already been clear that it wouldnt pay 
for a full kitchen or the damage to the walls that wasnt linked to this claim. Aviva asked for 
details of the ongoing food/disturbance allowance cost details and again for a new start date. 
Miss G confirmed no start date could be agreed due to health issues and that she was 
gathering up details to provide to Aviva to show food and laundry costs.
Just before Christmas Miss G confirmed the family would be well enough for work to start on 
22 December 2021. Unfortunately, contractors were not available to start that day and early 
in the new year Miss G said she would update Aviva on further start dates.Aviva found that replicating the kitchen doors was very expensive so offered another option 
to Miss G of choosing new doors and provided a brochure showing the options available. 
The door choices were agreed in April 2022. Aviva also agreed to pay for the worktops and 
confirmed the appliances again too. After this Aviva continued to try and arrange a date to 
continue and complete the works. Miss G requested a further copy of the scope of works 
and in late June further notified Aviva of her medical conditions. Unsure of how to move 
forward Aviva at this point again offered Miss G the option of a cash settlement to conclude 
the claim and allow her to get further work done as it suited her and her family.
In September 2022 Aviva chased again asking for start date options or if Miss G had made 
any decision on taking the cash settlement. As Miss G still remained unhappy and asked this 
service to look into her complaint. Theres still no replacement kitchen in place. Miss G said 
Aviva have taken advantage of her and the families health and vulnerabilities.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She took on board all of the points Miss G 
presented including extensive details of her and her familys medical records. Our 
investigator fully reviewed the file provided by Aviva and worked through the time line of the 
claim and the actions of the parties. She said the claim had gone on for longer than it should. 
Our investigator said Aviva had taken on board the health issues and vulnerabilities of 
Miss G and the family and had tried to take account of this throughout dealing with the claim. 
She concluded that Aviva had caused some delay but had dealt with that by way of the £250 
excess, it had offered to pay for all appropriate extra costs based on evidence from Miss G 
and attempted at every opportunity to either carry out the repairs or pay for them.
Miss G didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are many aspects and points made throughout the complaint. Id just like to confirm 
even though Ive considered everything Im going to limit the reasoning and findings to what I 
see as the key and central factors.
I appreciate Aviva extending the complaint period from December 2021 so this service can 
review everything up until September 2022. I think thats helpful so I can consider as many 
of the issues and concerns as possible. Miss G feels thats unfair and this service should 
look at everything.
There is no doubt claims can be very stressful and time consuming. Dealing with a claim is a 
hassle, its inconvenient, and upsetting. I think we can all feel a little vulnerable at a point 
when we have to make a claim because something has gone wrong. But it is clear by the 
amount of correspondence and what has happened during the course of the claim that 
Miss G and her family feel and are particularly vulnerable. Miss G was clear with Aviva at the 
start of the claim that it wasnt going to be a quick process and Aviva would need to be 
patient with her throughout.
These is also no doubt that this claim shouldnt have needed to run on for as long as it has 
without a final resolution. Claims can and do take varying amounts of time to resolve, some 
of which are very lengthy. There can also be many individuals, parties and contractors 
involved at different points to resolve different issues. So, what I need to consider is how 
Aviva dealt with that in relation to Miss G and her families claim and situation.Its clear and accepted from the background above that there were initially delays clearly 
caused by Aviva. But it did accept this and made an offer at that time to resolve the delays. It 
offered to refund the policy excess of £250 and Miss G accepted that. Looking at the amount 
of time involved I think that was a fair and reasonable offer. If that amount hasnt yet been 
repaid, then Aviva should pay it to Miss G.
Looking at the rest of the time involved I note our investigator received lots of medical 
evidence from Miss G on a regular basis. Miss G was clear at times that she wasnt able to 
deal with discussion and further action with our investigator due to her medical 
circumstances. Similarly, there were other times when she was unable to move the claim 
forward due to the health of family members. Miss G also had to deal with the passing away 
of her father and pointed out other family members had passed away while she was trying to 
deal with the claim too. Thats a lot for anyone to contend with and Id just like to offer my 
condolences to Miss G and her family at this point.
Miss G has also suggested she would like to deal with the food and laundry costs by way of 
a further separate complaint. But those items are part of this complaint and Aviva has 
agreed to review cost details as and when Miss G provides them. It has paid some amounts 
for the disturbance/food allowance and will consider evidence of further costs, but Miss G 
hasnt yet been able to produce these. So just to be clear I think Aviva has acted reasonably 
regarding what it has paid for disturbance/ food allowance so far. Regarding on going 
food/disturbance allowance and laundry costs this doesnt need to be a new complaint, when 
Miss G presents evidence Aviva has accepted it will consider these costs.
This would only need to be a new complaint if Miss G provides evidence and Aviva cant 
agree a settlement amount with her based on the claim criteria discussed when the claim 
situation first arose. Miss G suggests takeaways have cost her between £15,000 and 
£17,000 over this period of time. Allowances paid so far by Aviva total £474 for the period 
that should have applied between the removal and planned replacement of the kitchen. The 
amount paid of £474 is made up £630 for three people for 21 days, plus an additional £94 for 
the portable hob minus the £250 policy excess.
One other point that Im not sure has been fully considered is the garden. Miss G has said 
this was messed up by the contractors and it would need to be cleared up. Im unsure if this 
matter has been fully worked through and this might need to be part of a new complaint if 
agreement cant or hasnt been reached.
I think by appointing a single point of contact, agreeing to make sure the kitchen fitter Miss G 
and her family felt comfortable with, chasing up and offering numerous dates and cash 
options Aviva have acted fairly and reasonably in trying to conclude Miss Gs claim. Aviva 
explained the difficulties dealing with a claim cause and tried to ensure these were kept to a 
minimum for Miss G and the family. I think it has taken on board the medical, health issues 
and vulnerabilities that apply to Miss G and her family.
The real delays and issues seem to have happened at the point when the kitchen was 
removed. Aviva produced a schedule of works and a timeline to show what would be done 
and when. Aviva were able to conclude the work, but it was Miss G who asked them to stop. 
It is well documented about the health and medical issues that are involved but I cant hold 
Aviva responsible for that. If it is asked not to act and continue the repair by Miss G, then it 
has to be guided by that and follow her requests. If Aviva did the opposite of that and carried 
on with the work when Miss G has asked it not to then I would think very differently here.
During a call with our investigator Miss G was asked if the kitchen had been completed yet 
and Miss G admitted since she had chosen the new kitchen she knew Aviva were waiting for 
a start date from her but shed been too tired to arrange it. Although I understand this was due to her health, I cant say Aviva is at fault. This has impacted on how long the case has 
spent at this service too. Miss G has asked for time extensions and to delay matters 
throughout. This service does understand why but cant penalise Aviva for that.
Miss G has said due to health issues her and her mother were unable to cook. Miss G said it 
was unsafe for her to cook due to medical problems. Im very sorry to hear that and I dont 
dispute the point. But I dont think that means Aviva didnt do the right thing when it offered 
the food/disturbance allowance and paid for the portable hob. Similarly, as part of the claim it 
removed the kitchen and want to replace it as part of Miss Gs claim. Aviva would have 
completed replacement if dates and arrangements could be made with Miss G.
I accept Miss G remains unhappy, but I think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in the 
way it has tried to conclude this claim. If Miss G offers several dates for Aviva to arrange the 
kitchen fitter she has requested to come and fit the kitchen then hopefully the matter can be 
resolved.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Aviva Insurance Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and the 
estate of Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman