DRN-4403819
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that he didnt receive the benefit of a promotion when using his American 
Express Services Europe Limited card. Mr K was also unhappy with the service provided by 
American Express. 
What happened
Mr K says he wasnt able to take advantage of a promotion run by American Express when 
using his card at a retailer that was listed as a participant in the promotion. Mr K was 
enrolled on a promotion which was for a Dining Benefit offer being run by American Express. 
As part of the promotion eligible customers were entitled to £150 statement credit for any 
spend under the promotion for a set period. 
Mr K made a reservation on 31 August 2023 for a booking on 16 September 2023, as part of 
the reservation Mr K made an online payment of £200. Mr K was expecting a statement 
credit of £150 in line with the promotion offer, but Mr K only received £1.10 for a payment 
made at the restaurant on 16 September 2023.  
Mr K complained to American Express, but American Express didnt think it acted unfairly in 
not adding the statement credit. It said that the payment made online was through a 
payment facilitator and this meant the transaction wasnt eligible for the statement credit. 
American Express did accept it provided Mr K with poor service and paid him compensation 
of £150. 
Mr K remained unhappy so referred his complaint to our service. He said he wasnt aware a 
payment facilitator had been used in the transaction and felt it was unfair to penalise him. He 
also said that hed used a similar offer previously in a similar way and he was provided the 
statement credit in December 2021.
Our investigator considered what Mr K had said. But he didnt think American Express had 
done anything wrong. He said the terms and conditions set out the eligibility criteria for the 
promotion and payments made through a payment facilitator werent eligible for the 
purposes of the promotion. 
He further said the terms and conditions set out that payments made for reservations and 
deposits were not eligible and as Mr Ks payment of £200 was a reservation this was a 
further reason why American Express hadnt been unreasonable in refusing the statement 
credit. He also felt the £150 payment for the poor service was fair. 
Mr K still disagreed. In summary he said he made the payment directly to the retailer and 
there was no mention of a payment facilitator so the onus shouldnt be on him, and he feels 
American Express should honour the promotion. He also felt that American Express were 
applying the terms inconsistently and on previous occasions when credits were missed it 
always applied the statement credit without contesting it. 
Because Mr K didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as our investigator. In order to 
uphold this complaint, I would have to find that American Express has done something 
wrong or treated Mr K unfairly - and I dont think it did. I know Mr K will be disappointed with 
my decision because I can see how strongly he feels about the matter, so Ill explain why.
American Express Dining Benefit promotion paid out a total £150 of statement credit in any 
qualifying period for qualifying transactions. But the eligibility criteria needed to be met. The 
eligibility criteria was set out in the terms and conditions and included the following:
Meals paid for through payment facilitators are not eligible and will not count towards 
your benefit spend. A payment facilitator is an intermediary that accepts payments on 
behalf of the restaurant. Payment facilitators can include some online payment 
platforms.
You will not receive a statement credit for the following charges or transactions: 
booking fees, deposits paid towards your meal, any upfront charges made by the 
restaurant .
It was the retailers choice to decide how it received any payments and if it wanted to use a 
payment facilitator, American Express would not have had any control over what a retailer 
decides to do. So whilst I note that this would be frustrating and disappointing for Mr K, it 
wasnt American Express fault. 
As the transaction was completed through a payment facilitator it wasnt a qualifying 
transaction under the Dining Benefit promotion. And as a result, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably require American Express to pay him the promotional statement credits, as hed 
like. 
I also note Mr K feels American Express have been inconsistent in applying the statement 
credits. But those were different transactions and different retailers and what Im looking at 
here is this specific transaction on which I have been provided information and evidence by 
both parties, so I dont think it would be appropriate for me to comment on what American 
Express may have decided in different circumstances. 
I also think the £150 American Express have paid for the poor service is fair for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr K when he was trying to resolve the issues for the poor 
handling of the call and the missed call back that had been promised to him.  
Overall, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask American Express to do, credit or pay any 
more to Mr K than its already done.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Jag DhupharOmbudsman