DRN-1785966
Complaint
Mr O has complained that Nationwide Building Society wont refund a transaction he says he 
didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr O was on holiday abroad. At 23:10 UK time, he used his card in a club. 
Then at 01:54, his card was used for a £387.33 withdrawal at a cash machine. Mr O says he 
did not make or authorise this withdrawal.
At 02:34, there were three more attempts to withdraw money at a second ATM  two for 
£774.67, and one for £566.67. They were declined as there wasnt enough money in his 
account. At 02:37, there was a successful withdrawal at that second ATM for £37.79. There 
were no further transactions that day.
Mr O returned to the UK on 7 April 2019 and continued using his card. He checked his online 
banking a number of times in the following days. Then on 15 April 2019, he called 
Nationwide to report the £387.33 withdrawal as fraud.
Mr O says his card was kept in his phone case in his pocket along with another bank card. 
He didnt let it out of his sight, his card wasnt missing as far as he was aware, and he didnt 
give it to anyone. His didnt record his PIN anywhere or tell it to anyone, and it wasnt an 
obvious number or one that was shared with other cards. He didnt notice anything 
suspicious or unusual happening that night. He was with friends most of the night, but alone 
at the time of the withdrawal, and didnt suspect anyone he knew of taking his card. Mr O 
changed his testimony a few times on whether the £37.79 withdrawal was him or not. He 
said he definitely did take cash out, but couldnt remember for how much. He also gave 
different versions of events about when he noticed the withdrawal.
Nationwide held Mr O liable for the payments in dispute. They didnt see a likely way that 
someone could take his card, learn his PIN, use it and return it to Mr O without his 
knowledge or permission. 
Mr O came to our service. Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt 
uphold the complaint. He explained the genuine card and PIN had been used. He noted 
Mr Os testimony had been inconsistent. He also didnt see a likely way someone couldve 
done this without Mr Os permission.
Mr O didnt agree. He thought someone must have tampered with an ATM to put the 
withdrawal through. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.Broadly, Nationwide can hold Mr O liable for the withdrawal in dispute if he authorised it.
Mr O has suggested that a cloned card or altered ATM couldve been used. But theres no 
evidence of that. Im satisfied from the technical evidence that the withdrawal was made 
using Mr Os genuine card, along with the correct PIN, in the normal way. 
Now this is not enough, on its own, for Nationwide to hold Mr O liable. So I also need to think 
about whether the evidence suggests that its most likely Mr O consented to the transaction, 
or not. And having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, 
I think its reasonable to conclude that he did. Ill explain why.
First, Ive considered whether its likely that an unknown party made the disputed withdrawal.
It is possible that an unknown thief couldve overlooked Mr O entering his PIN at the club 
and then taken his card. But firstly, it wouldve been difficult to take Mr Os card from his 
phone case in his pocket without him noticing. Secondly, there was a gap of several hours 
between Mr O using his card in the club and the disputed withdrawal. And it does not seem 
likely that a thief would either steal the card and wait several hours to use it, risking it being 
cancelled, or follow Mr O for several hours to wait to steal his card.
More importantly, Mr O still had the card in his possession afterwards. And I dont see any 
likely reason why an unknown thief would go to the effort of finding Mr O and giving him his 
card back. That would only increase the persons risk of being caught, and would prevent 
them from using the card as much as possible, for no clear benefit to them.
I mightve expected a thief to try to take as much as possible, as quickly as possible. But the 
person who used the card didnt check the balance, and left a substantial amount in the 
account. Further, Mr O kept another bank card in his phone case, and neither that  nor the 
phone itself  appear to have been taken. Its difficult to see why an unknown thief would 
leave the phone and other card behind when stealing from Mr O.
So I dont see a likely or plausible way that an unknown party did this.
It is possible that someone known to Mr O may have made the transaction without his 
permission. But I dont think thats likely either. Mr O said he never gave his card to anyone. 
And they wouldve found it rather difficult to steal Mr Os card from his phone case, from his 
pocket, use it behind his back, and replace it within the case without him ever noticing. And 
understandably, Mr O doesnt suspect that anyone he was with couldve done this. Indeed, 
he said he wasnt with them anymore by the time of the withdrawal. So it seems that Mr O 
has himself effectively ruled out this possibility.
Lastly, Ive considered whether its likely that Mr O made the disputed withdrawal himself or 
gave someone else permission to make it for him. 
Mr O says he isnt sure if the £37.79 withdrawal was him or not. But he was sure that he 
used an ATM at some point in the holiday. And the only two ATM withdrawals during that 
holiday were the £37.79 one, and the disputed £387.33 one. Mr O said his genuine cash 
withdrawal was for around £30 to £50 or so, for a taxi. So I think the £37.79 withdrawal was 
genuine.
Just minutes and seconds before the £37.79 withdrawal, Mr Os genuine card and PIN were 
used to attempt three withdrawals at the same ATM: two of £774.67, and one of £566.87. If 
the £37.79 withdrawal was genuine, it follows that those attempts wouldve been, too. So it 
looks like Mr O was attempting to withdraw large amounts of money that night. This would fit 
with the £387.33 withdrawal being genuine as well.Mr O didnt spend a single penny on his card the following day, despite being on holiday. 
Thats not impossible by any means, but would make more sense if hed withdrawn a 
significant amount of cash the night before.
Mr O checked his online banking a number of times before contacting Nationwide. I do 
appreciate that he may not have noticed the £387.33 withdrawal at first. But it also seems 
unlikely that hed wait to report the withdrawal if it was made without his consent.
Mr Os testimony has, Im afraid, been unreliable and contradictory in places. And while 
I appreciate that memories do fade, this makes it difficult for me to take any of his versions of 
events as being the most likely one, as opposed to the version of events that the other 
evidence suggests  namely, that he authorised the disputed transaction.
Finally, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mr O 
couldve authorised the disputed withdrawal or given someone else permission to make it.
In summary, Im satisfied that Mr Os genuine card and PIN were used. Based on the 
evidence, there isnt a likely way an unknown person did this, or that someone known to 
Mr O did this without his permission. That leaves only one likely possibility  that Mr O made 
the withdrawal or gave someone else permission to make it. This is a difficult message for 
me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr O to receive. But given the evidence 
I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other 
conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for Nationwide to refuse a refund in this 
case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman