DRN-1427272
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy with how Admiral Insurance Company Limited have dealt with a claim he 
made under his motor insurance policy. In particular he is concerned about their assessment 
of liability and use of their internal engineer. 
What happened
Mr V was involved in a road traffic accident in April 2019. The circumstances of the accident 
are such that Mr V says the rear of his car was struck by the third party as he was entering a 
roundabout. He said he was in the middle lane approaching the roundabout, when a third 
party, who was in the right-hand lane, manoeuvred left to change lanes, colliding with his 
car. Mr V reported the accident to his insurance company. At the time of reporting the 
incident Mr V confirmed that there were no independent witnesses to the accident. 
The third party disputed liability. They said they were in the middle lane approaching the 
roundabout at the time of the accident and claimed that Mr V hit the front of their vehicle 
while he was changing from the left lane to the middle lane.. So, they considered Mr V 
caused the incident. 
Admiral looked into Mr Vs claim, noting it was attempting to establish liability for the 
accident. But they were not able to obtain any CCTV footage of the accident and there were 
no independent witnesses. As a result they took the view that liability for the accident would 
be split on a 50/50 basis because they couldnt be sure which driver has caused the 
damage. 
Mr V was not happy with Admirals assessment of liability and felt that the photographs of 
the damage to the vehicles proved his version of events. Admiral had their engineer look at 
the evidence, and the engineer concluded that the photographs of the damage did not prove 
one version of events over the other.
Mr V was not happy with the response from Admiral and referred his complaint to this 
service. The investigator felt that Mr V had received the service that he was entitled to under 
the terms of the policy and could not find any evidence that the engineer had not provided an 
independent view of the claim in order to assist Admiral in fairly determining liability. Mr V did 
not agree with the investigator. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding this complaint.  
Under the terms of the policy Admiral have the discretion to take over, defend or to settle 
claims as they feel appropriate. So, it is entitled to make a decision on how the claim should 
be recorded, based on the evidence it has. But I expect them to exercise that discretion in a 
fair and reasonable way. By that I mean that Admiral should complete a fair investigation into 
the matter, when making a decision on how the claim is recorded, or whether to recover 
costs from a third party.
It is not my role to decide which driver was responsible for the accident. But I can look to see 
if Admirals decision to split liability with the third party was reasonable, based on the 
investigation it undertook. 
Admiral felt that both parties version of events were plausible given the damage to both 
cars. Admiral did try to obtain any CCTV footage of the accident but were unable to do so. 
And there were no independent witnesses to assist the investigation. So, Im satisfied 
Admiral could only consider the explanation of each party. And this is what it did. Given the 
lack of firm evidence, and that both version of events were possible, and equally plausible, I 
think that Admirals decision to accept liability on a 50/50 basis, rather than attempting to 
recover funds from the third party was reasonable. 
In respect of the internal engineer, I can see no evidence that the conclusion was biased. 
The engineer found that the damage does not favour either party and Admiral explained that 
damage alone cannot be used as the sole piece of evidence to apportion liability on the third 
party. I think it was reasonable for Admiral to rely on the view of the engineer. 
I can see that Mr V feels very strongly that he was in the right, and I can empathise with his 
position. But I think Admiral acted fairly and reasonably when they settled the case on the 
evidence that they had. As they havent done anything wrong, I cant ask them to do any 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
So, I dont require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do anything more in respect of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman