DRN-3017035
The complaint
Mr D says Healthcare Finance Limited (HFL) has unfairly declined his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
A loan servicing firm, which is affiliated with HFL, serviced the loan and responded to this 
complaint on behalf of HFL. For clarity, Ill refer to its actions and submissions as those of 
HFL in this decision. 
What happened
On 6 November 2019, Mr D borrowed £1,399 from HFL to pay for clear aligners from a 
company Ill call Business A.
Business A provided the aligners. But it went into administration before Mr D completed his 
treatment  and it didnt provide Mr D with any retainers.
Mr D says he spent months chasing Business A. When he didnt receive a response, he 
contacted HFL to make a claim under section 75 of the CCA. A few weeks later, HFL 
reduced Mr Ds loan balance by £149, which is the value of the retainers that werent 
supplied, so that he could purchase them from another supplier.
Mr D says his teeth have returned to their original position because Business A didnt 
provide the retainers, and he wants HFL to cancel the loan and refund the payments hes 
made.
When HFL refused, he referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators thought HFLs offer was fair  as it enabled Mr D to purchase the 
retainers elsewhere.
Mr D disagrees and has asked that an ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on credit. It says, in 
certain circumstances, that the finance provider is legally answerable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
Here, its agreed that Business As failure to provide the retainers was a breach of contract, 
for which Mr D has a like claim against HFL. However, the parties disagree on the 
appropriate remedy. 
As Im considering HFLs liability for a like claim, its important I consider what remedies or 
relief a court may order against the supplier in similar circumstances.
HFL reduced Mr Ds loan balance by £149 on 10 August 2020. Ive checked Business As 
website from late 2019, and a set of retainers ostensibly cost €149. This is comparable to 
market rates for retainers of this sort (clear plastic) ordered online. In the circumstances, I 
think £149 fairly reflects the price of the retainers Mr D didnt receive  and how much he 
would have had to pay to obtain them from a different supplier.
Mr D says his teeth have returned to their original position because Business A didnt 
provide the retainers and he therefore wants a full refund. However, hes also told us that the 
aligners didnt work in the first place. 
It think its plausible that Mr Ds teeth have moved without retainers. Its common knowledge 
that retainers must be worn after aligners  and its something Business A made clear on its 
website.
The difficulty I have is that, given Mr Ds testimony, and in the absence of evidence from a 
dentist or suitably qualified medical practitioner, I dont know whether, and to what extent, 
any current misalignment is due to Business As failure to provide the retainers.
Whats more, when our investigator asked Mr D if hed seen a dentist or attempted to obtain 
the retainers from another supplier, he said it wasnt his responsibility to do either  it was, 
he said, a problem for HFL to resolve. But when theres a breach of contract, the law expects 
the innocent party to take all reasonable steps to minimise any loss or harm. And an 
innocent party cant recover damages for any loss or harm that could have been avoided. 
Reasonable steps here would have been for Mr D to obtain the retainers from another online 
supplier when he learned Business A wouldnt provide them  and especially after HFL 
reduced his loan balance by the sum required to purchase them. But Mr D didnt do this.
In the circumstances, Ive seen insufficient evidence to conclude that Business As failure to 
provide the retainers caused any current misalignment, or that Mr D took reasonable steps 
to minimise or avoid any movement.
For completeness, Ive considered Mr Ds comment that the aligners didnt work in the first 
place as a separate complaint point. However, Business As terms and conditions say:
Clear aligner therapy is unpredictable. [Business A] does not guarantee a successful 
treatment outcome. Individual results will vary.
I appreciate that Mr D may have been disappointed with the results at the end of the aligner 
treatment. But as a particular outcome wasnt guaranteed, I dont think this means there was 
a breach of contract for which HFL may be liable.
In light of my findings above, I think HFL has fairly remedied Business As breach of 
contract, for which it was legally answerable under section 75 of the CCA, by reducing 
Mr Ds loan balance by the cost of the items which werent supplied.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Christopher ReevesOmbudsman