DRN-3370521
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent him losing money to a 
scam in which he sent money to accounts held with Lloyds.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In 2020 Mr H was sadly the victim of a scam. He believed he was dealing with a genuine 
investment company. As a result of this he made four payments from his own bank C 
(which is based outside the UK) to accounts held with Lloyds. 
The payments totalled over £160,000 and were spread over three months. The first three 
payments went to an account with Lloyds Ill call account A. And the final payment went to 
an account Ill refer to as account B. 
I understand Mr H raised this with C who declined to refund him. There is some evidence to 
suggest that this was in part because C had warned Mr H of the potential for a scam prior to 
processing the payments. 
Mr H believes Lloyds should refund him as they allowed scammers to open and operate 
accounts with them. Lloyds said the accounts were both opened correctly and didnt believed 
they had caused or contributed towards Mr Hs loss  they too declined to offer a refund. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend that 
the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she broadly agreed with Lloyds. Mr H 
disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Mr H has been the victim of a cruel scam. And I dont doubt that this had and 
continues to have a significant impact on him, particularly due to the sums involved. But 
being the victim of a scam doesnt automatically entitle him to a refund from the bank that 
received his money. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds correctly followed its account opening process for both accounts A 
and B. I dont think there was anything at that stage that would have indicated that these 
accounts may go on to be used in connection with a fraud or scam. So, I dont think Lloyds 
could have prevented Mr Hs loss in relation to the opening of the accounts. 
Ive also reviewed the account activity for both accounts, this is both prior to and soon after 
the credit(s) from Mr H arrived. And whilst significant sums were involved, given the types of 
accounts that received the funds and their expected and intended use  I dont think this 
would have stood out as unusual or suspicious to Lloyds. 
So I dont think there was any reasonable basis upon which I could have expected Lloyds to 
have intervened in the operation of either of their customers accounts. I appreciate that 
Mr H thinks Lloyds ought to have done far more to question the purpose and reason for each 
payment with their accountholders. But given the volume of daily transactions that happen 
across the international banking system, I dont think this is a reasonable or realistic 
expectation. Thats not to say Lloyds dont have obligations to be alert to fraud. But I just 
dont think there was anything relating to the activity on either account that should have 
prompted Lloyds to have looked closer. 
Ive not seen evidence to support that Lloyds were notified by C about the problem with any 
of Mr Hs payments. So I dont think Lloyds failed to respond appropriately to a notification of 
their accounts receiving fraudulent funds. And in any case Mr Hs funds were all paid away 
from the respective accounts very soon after being received, long before Mr H contacted 
Lloyds.
Mr H has asked that I also consider a partial refund as he is experiencing financial difficulty. I 
have every sympathy for the situation he finds himself in. And as Ive said above, I dont 
doubt that he is a genuine victim of criminal scammers. But as I dont think there were any 
failings by Lloyds that caused (or prevented the recovery of) his loss, it wouldnt be fair for 
me to tell them they need to do more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman