DRN-2958967
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Ms M says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her PPI.
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Ms Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Ms Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Ms M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because to get the cover, Ms M had to sign her signature for it 
on the application form for the store card. The form is signed for the cover. So, if Ms 
M had only wanted the credit, she could have left the PPI section blank. 
AXA told us the policy would have been sold without advice. So, it didnt have to 
check that the PPI was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Ms M enough 
clear and timely information so she could decide for herself it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Ms M, she was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt caught by any major restrictive terms  Ms M was 
employed and told us she had no pre-existing medical conditions. Ms M told us she 
had some sick pay she could have relied on but that it only lasted for 12 weeks at her 
full rate of pay. The PPI could have paid out in addition to Ms Ms sick pay and for 
longer than her employer would have paid her at her full rate of pay. And Ms M told 
us she had no savings and no other insurance she could use to make her 
repayments in the event of long-term ill health, or if she lost her job. It also looks like 
the cover was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Ms M would have declined the 
cover had AXA done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Ms M would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party and not AXA. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court 
judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent applicable. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman