DRN-4024260
The complaint
Mr L complains about the service he has received from ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) in 
respect of one of his pension plans. He says he has been given conflicting information about 
whether he can continue to contribute to it, and by how much, after he has taken tax-free 
cash from it. 
What happened
Mr L had a personal pension with Legal & General (L&G) that ReAssure is now responsible 
for. In October 2020 Mr L made enquiries about taking the benefits from this plan in the form 
of some tax-free cash. But he also wanted to still contribute to the pension, that is he wanted 
to still be able to pay up to the annual allowance of £40,000 each year that can be paid into 
a personal pension. 
Mr L complains that he was told by ReAssure that he could take some tax-free cash from 
this plan and still make contributions to it. However, its now clear that he isnt able to do this. 
He cant make any further contributions to his plan as he has taken some tax-free cash. 
Mr L complained in 2020 to ReAssure about the administration of his L&G pension. He said 
that he had been provided conflicting, and misleading, information in respect of five main 
areas. These were: 
He was told he could contribute up to £40,000 into his pension after he had taken the 
tax-free cash. 
He was told he could continue to contribute to the pension up to his age 70. 
He wanted to ensure his tax-free allowance had been correctly dealt with. 
Some of the information hed received about where his fund was invested was 
unclear.
And some of the information hed received about his fund value wasnt correct. 
ReAssure upheld Mr Ls complaint in part. It said that the service it had provided had been 
poor at times. Added to this, the information it had provided wasnt always correct. However, 
it said that it did correctly inform him, both in some of the telephone calls and in writing, that 
he couldnt take tax-free cash from his L&G plan and still contribute to it. It offered Mr L £250 
compensation for the inconvenience that its poor service had caused him. 
Mr L referred his complaint to our service. An investigator agreed that the service ReAssure 
had provided couldve been better and it had given him conflicting information at times. But 
he also said that ReAssure had provided the correct information about whether he could 
contribute to his L&G plan after he took tax-free cash. Because of this, he thought the offer 
ReAssure had made was fair. 
Mr L disagreed. He said that he wanted to concentrate on the two key issues of his 
complaint that is the information hed received about whether he could continue to pay into 
his pension plan and the reduction of his annual contribution allowance. Mr L essentially said 
that the quotes and surrounding information were incorrect in several ways. So, it was 
unreasonable to have expected him to rely on them at all. He expected to receive 
confirmation that his plan would remain the same after he had taken the tax-free cash from 
it. 
I can see there was some further correspondence after the Investigators initial opinion. And 
Mr L provided a copy of another letter he had received. And we did receive recordings of 
some of the telephone calls made between Mr L and ReAssure after the opinion. But these 
very closely match ReAssures and Mr Ls notes and commentary about them, which we 
already had. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, and Mr L had no new material 
points to make. So, the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
Its not disputed that ReAssure has provided incorrect information to Mr L about his pension. 
This is in relation to when he took some tax-free cash and how this would affect his plan 
going forward. But to be clear, as has been explained to Mr L, under HMRC rules he can 
only contribute certain amounts under certain circumstances if he has taken the benefits 
from a pension. And under the terms of the L&G pension he is no longer able to contribute to 
it after he has taken tax-free cash. 
So even if Mr L was misled, I wouldnt be able to put him back in the position that mirrors a 
situation where he can take tax-free cash from his pension, and still fully contribute to it. This 
is something he couldnt do. 
So, Ive firstly looked to see if the poor customer service, and incorrect information he has 
been provided, would have led to Mr L changing his decision to take the tax-free cash. And 
then Ive thought about the customer service ReAssure provided after Mr L took tax-free 
cash from his pension. 
What happened before Mr L took tax-free cash
Mr L has provided a detailed account of his contact with ReAssure. Ive also seen copies of 
the letters between him and ReAssure, both parties notes and communications and some of 
the recordings of the calls between them both. Ive looked at all of this, but I wont refer to all 
of the detail here as both sides are aware of it. 
In September 2020 Mr L started looking into taking some tax-free cash from his L&G 
personal pension. He was 64 at the time and, whilst he didnt want to fully retire, he was 
thinking about taking the benefits from this pension. I understand he wanted some funds to 
purchase a property. 
On 23 September 2020 Mr L was given information about his L&G plan by ReAssure. He 
was given the value of it, and he was told he could continue to contribute to the plan up to 
his age 70, up to a limit of £40,000 each year, as he was not fully taking the benefits. There 
were some later calls that gave similar information. Mr L says he understood from this series 
of telephone calls that he could simply take the tax-free cash and his pension would 
otherwise remain unchanged (broadly speaking). In October 2020 Mr L received some written information about the proposed tax-free cash 
withdrawal. This provided some information about what would happen to his plan after he 
withdrew the tax-free cash. 
Mr L was sent a letter dated 9 October 2020 in respect of the transfer. This included a Key 
Features document, with information about the pension, an application form and some notes 
to these documents. These notes say that after the tax-free cash is taken: 
It will no longer be possible to pay contributions into this pension plan.
I also note that under the heading What are the conditions for tax-free lump sum, the notes
say by taking a tax-free lump sum we must then allocate all the remaining money to 
drawdown at the same time.
Mr L had a telephone call after this, on 12 October 2020, in which he was also told that if he 
took any tax-free cash from the pension then he would be unable to contribute to it in the 
same way going forward.
On 23 October 2020 ReAssure sent Mr L information about the withdrawal he had requested 
from his L&G plan. The notes to the application form said that: 
In summary, the following are the effects of taking the withdrawal youve requested:
As you have chosen to take a tax-free lump sum, all of the remaining money in the policy will
be converted into a flexi-access drawdown (see what are the conditions for a tax-free lump
sum). It will no longer be possible to pay contributions into the plan. .
ReAssure has sent copies of Mr Ls pension withdrawal application which he signed on
27 October 2020. He also signed to confirm that he was aware of the written information he 
had received.  
Mr L withdrew tax-free cash of around £85,000 and this was received by him on 28 October 
2020.
Its clear that Mr L did want to release the tax-free cash urgently, as he wanted to purchase a 
property. Because of this, he was in contact with ReAssure about this a significant number of 
times. And ReAssure, by its own admission, was struggling to progress Mr Ls transaction. 
But I think its reasonable to say that, whilst the information Mr L received was contradictory, 
he was given the incorrect information, in the main, when he started to make enquiries about 
his pension. But as time went on, he was given better information both in telephone calls and 
in the written information which Ive outlined above. 
In particular, the letters are clear enough in that they do explain that his pension wouldnt 
carry on in the same way after he had taken tax-free cash from it.
So, Mr L should have been aware that it was likely that he wouldnt be able to contribute to 
his pension going forward. And he did proceed with the knowledge that, at best, this issue 
wasnt resolved. And I dont think its reasonable to say that he could disregard the 
information he was given about the ongoing pension contributions due to errors elsewhere. 
So, I think that if Mr L had been provided with better information, he still would have 
proceeded to take the tax-free cash from his pension. And so, I cant say that he would now 
be able to contribute to this pension going forward. What happened after Mr L took the tax-free cash
Mr L has provided a letter he received in February 2021 from ReAssure that also said he 
could continue making contributions to his pension. He thinks that this should supersede the 
earlier correspondence he received. 
But as I explained above, even if the information he has been provided is misleading then 
this doesnt alter the terms of the contract he has and the rules it must operate under. Mr L 
cant now contribute to his personal pension as he has taken some tax-free cash from it. As I 
think this is what he would have done in any event, I cant change this. 
I appreciate all of this has caused Mr L some distress and inconvenience. Especially in the 
early part of the contact between him and ReAssure. But Im conscious that this was a 
complicated transaction that was also time pressured. So not all of the distress would have 
been down to the mistakes that Reassure made. Because of this I think the £250 
compensation amount that ReAssure has offered is reasonable. 
Putting things right
ReAssure should pay Mr L £250. If it has already paid this, it doesnt need to pay this again. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
ReAssure Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman