DRN-2877196
The complaint
Mrs B complains TFS Loans Limited irresponsibly approved her as a guarantor for a loan. 
She says reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown she was already reliant 
on credit herself and she wouldnt have been able to sustainably afford to make repayments 
to this loan had it been necessary. 
Mrs B also says she was coerced into taking the loan by the borrower and wasnt fully aware 
of her obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement.
  
What happened
In 2017 Mrs B was approved as a guarantor on a loan with TFS. The loan was for £4,500 
over a term of 60 months, with a monthly repayment of £175.91 and total repayable value of 
£10,554.60
In 2020 Mrs B complained to TFS. It investigated her concerns and didnt uphold her 
complaint. TFS said it completed reasonable and proportionate checks as part of the 
application process. It also said it had listened to the multiple telephone calls with Mrs B from 
the point of the loan application; which showed it obtained her informed consent. It was 
therefore satisfied she understood the responsibility of being a guarantor before approving 
the loan. TFS also said there was no indication during the calls with Mrs B that she was 
being coerced into being the guarantor. And that she had multiple occasions to withdraw as 
a guarantor before the loan was approved. 
Mrs B brought her complaint to us for review. Our investigator upheld the complaint. They 
said TFS had completed proportionate checks  but hadnt taken account of the information 
it had obtained. They said had it done so; it should have prompted TFS to ask more 
questions which should have led it to conclude Mrs B wasnt a suitable candidate to act as a 
guarantor for the loan. 
Mrs Bs representative replied to the assessment and had nothing further to add. TFS 
responded to say it completed proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision. It said 
Mrs B had no defaults or CCJs registered on her credit file, which it said would have flagged 
potential financial difficulty. And Mrs Bs bank account didnt show unpaid items and fees. 
TFS further said it hadnt seen anything to suggest Mrs B wouldnt be able to make 
payments if the borrower wasnt able to. And there was no evidence to suggest Mrs B had 
doubts about her responsibility as a guarantor. 
As TFS didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Bs complaint.   
TFS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly accepted Mrs B as a 
guarantor to this lending. 
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time TFS lent required it to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mrs Bs ability to 
afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term  without causing her financial 
difficulties  should she be called upon to do so under the guarantee and indemnity 
agreement.  
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the guarantors individual circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for TFS to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider 
the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision.
TFS has said it completed an affordability assessment and conducted a credit file search to 
establish Mrs Bs creditworthiness to act as a guarantor for the loan. It obtained details of 
Mrs Bs income  and verified this via her bank statements. It also says it confirmed Mrs B 
had no mortgage commitment as she owned her property outright, and the credit file search 
it completed at the time of the loan didnt show any defaults or CCJs  which it says would 
have indicated potential financial difficulties. TFS also said Mrs Bs bank statements showed 
no unpaid items or fees  which it said further supports its position that these checks 
combined were proportionate and as such it made a fair lending decision. 
Ive carefully considered TFSs arguments. And having done so, Im not persuaded it did 
make a fair lending decision in approving Mrs B as a guarantor for this loan.
I say this because Im satisfied, from the information it obtained at the point of the 
application, it should have been clear to TFS that Mrs B was not a suitable candidate to act 
as a guarantor for the loan. 
The credit file search TFS completed showed Mrs B had six active accounts with a total 
outstanding balance of £11,476. Mrs B had an overdrawn balance of over £300 on her bank 
account against her approved limit of £400. And she was largely using her credit and store 
card accounts, with three of the four nearing their limits. Mrs B has told us she was 
struggling to meet all of her commitments at this time; and her credit file reflects this. I think 
the markers on the credit file were sufficient to raise concerns to TFS; and demonstrate 
someone who is struggling to meet all of their existing commitments; or at the very least is 
using credit increasingly to supplement their income. 
This is further supported by the bank statements TFS obtained when verifying Mrs Bs 
income. TFS should have taken account of all the information that was available to it within 
these statements to further validate its checks  but it doesnt appear it did. 
Had it done so; it would have seen Mrs Bs income was lower than shed declared. The three 
pension credits Mrs B received across both February and March 2017 totalled just under 
£1,126. This is broken down as roughly £1,026 from Mrs Bs state pension and just under 
£100 from her two private pensions. This is around £85 less than the income TFS used in its 
income and expenditure calculations. It would also have seen Mrs Bs regular commitments to her household bills. These 
statements show, averaged across both February and March 2017, that Mrs Bs direct debits 
to utility companies and insurance total about £184 per month.
TFS noted Mrs B had credit commitments totalling £849.77 within its affordability 
assessment. This was broken down as £334.37 towards her four outstanding credit and 
store cards and £515 towards other committed exp (specify): gtor for apps amigo loan. 
This second expense indicates Mrs B was a guarantor for another loan the borrower had 
with another lender. Ive asked TFS to clarify the breakdown of the £515 commitment as I 
consider it appears relatively high for one loan. However, TFS havent been able to provide a 
breakdown for this figure other than as Ive detailed above. As this expense clearly asks for 
specific details, I think its likely, on balance, that if it was covering anything in addition to the 
loan with another lender TFS would have documented this. So, as Ive no evidence to 
suggest otherwise, Ive considered it as the payment solely for the other loan Mrs B was 
acting as a guarantor as for the borrower.
Therefore, it doesnt appear TFS took into account Mrs Bs regular monthly commitments 
when completing the income and expenditure assessment. As detailed above the regular 
monthly commitments shown on Mrs Bs bank statements, which TFS obtained at the point 
of the loan, total about £184. 
Considering Mrs Bs documented lower income, the regular commitments evidenced within 
her bank statements and the credit commitments TFS obtained at the time, Mrs B would be 
left with roughly £92 per month  before this loan repayment was taken into account. This 
loan had a monthly repayment of £175.91 which would have left Mrs B in a negative position 
each month had she needed to meet her obligations as a guarantor for this and the other 
loan shed guaranteed. 
Further, within the 12 months leading up to this loan application, Mrs B was making monthly 
payments to some of her credit and store cards below 1.0% of the total outstanding balance. 
And from looking at the credit file, and the bank statements, I can see this level of payment 
has been consistent for a continued period of time. This, along with what Ive outlined above, 
indicates to me someone who wasnt managing their finances well.
So taking this information into consideration, Im satisfied it was clear to TFS at the point of 
the application that repayments to this loan wouldnt have been affordable or sustainable for 
Mrs B - and it therefore follows TFS made an irresponsible lending decision as Mrs B wasnt 
a suitable candidate to act as a guarantor. 
Mrs B has also complained about coercion  and that she wasnt fully aware of her role 
under the guarantee and indemnity agreement. Whilst Ive no reason to doubt Mrs Bs 
account here, no finding I make on this aspect of her complaint will substantially impact its 
outcome.
Putting things right
To settle Mrs Bs complaint TFS should:
Release Mrs B from any obligations she has under the Guarantee and Indemnity 
agreement, and then terminate it;
Refund any repayments Mrs B has made towards the loan, with 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement; 
Remove any information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file as a result of the loan.  HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint about 
TFS Loans Limited and direct it to put things right as detailed above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman