DRN-4225060
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank PLC unfairly closed his bank account. He wants Barclays 
to reopen his account sometime in the future.
What happened
Mr L had an account with Barclays. In December 2022, Barclays reviewed how Mr L was 
using his account after it became concerned that the account was being used for fraud. 
Following its review, Barclays decided to close Mr Ls account and wrote to him giving him 
two months notice that he needed to make alternative banking arrangements. Barclays 
closed Mr Ls account on 19 February 2022.
In April 2023, Mr L applied to open another account with Barclays. However, a few days later 
Barclays closed the account. Mr L complained to Barclays and explained that during the time 
hed had his first account with the bank hed become the victim of financial abuse. He said 
an individual had threatened him to hand over his account details, which under duress he 
did. And then the individual misused his account without his knowledge or consent. 
Mr L apologised for the inconvenience this activity had caused Barclays. And accepted that 
he should have taken precautions to safeguard his account. He explained that he had since 
taken measures to prevent his account being misused again. And he asked Barclays to offer 
him an account in the future.
In response, Barclays said it acknowledged what Mr L had told them about his 
circumstances, but it wasnt willing to reopen Mr Ls account. Mr L wasnt happy with the 
banks response and brought his complaint to this service. He wants Barclays to offer him an 
account sometime in the future and to explain why it closed his account.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She thought Barclays hadnt done anything 
wrong when it had closed Mr Ls account.  And that it wasnt obliged to provide Mr L with the 
reasons why it didnt want him as a customer. Barclays accepted what the investigator said. 
Mr L disagreed. He said he doesnt want his account reopened but he wants to be able to 
open an account with Barclays in three to five years time. And he wants the bank to know 
what hes said about how his account was misused.  
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr L is unhappy Barclays closed his account. But banks are entitled to 
decide for themselves whether to do business or continue doing business with a customer. 
Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to 
continue providing accounts and providing an account to a customer is a commercial 
decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Thats because it has the commercial 
freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good reason to do so, 
this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But they shouldnt decline 
to open an account without proper reason, for instance of unfair bias or unlawful 
discrimination. And they must treat new and existing customers fairly.
Having looked at all the information available to me, including Barclayss actions and the 
information its provided, which includes it being aware of what Mr L has said about the use 
of his first account, Im satisfied that Barclayss decision to close Mr Ls account was 
reached legitimately and fairly. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and circumstances of 
this complaint, and Im satisfied Barclays acted in line with them, so, it was entitled to close 
the account as it has already done. Barclays have provided Mr L with the full notice period, 
so I cant say Barclays have acted unfairly in taking the actions it did, when it decided to 
close his account in December 2022.
Mr L applied to open a new account with Barclays in April 2023, but the bank closed this 
within a couple of days. Mr L has said that he doesnt want Barclays to reopen his account, 
but he wants to be able to open an account with Barclays sometime in the future  in three to 
five years time. I should explain to Mr L, that Barclays and other banks use the information 
given by a customer on their account application form together with information they may 
hold already, as well as information from credit reference agencies to help them decide 
whether or not to offer an account to a customer. So, Barclays wont be able to say that at 
some future date a customer would be successful in their application for a bank account. 
Barclays also isnt obliged to tell Mr L why it doesnt want him as a customer. 
Mr L has told this service that Barclays are still holding onto his account balance, after it 
declined his application for a new account. I can see that the bank wrote to Mr L and let him 
know that he can access his funds by attending branch with identification. Im afraid I cant 
add much more to what the bank has already told Mr L. If he hasnt already done so, Id 
encourage him to follow the banks instructions to get his money. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was upsetting and stressful for Mr L when Barclays closed 
his account and declined his application for another account. So, I realise Mr L will be 
disappointed by my decision. But based on the available evidence, I dont think Barclays 
acted inappropriately in taking the actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman