DRN-3781624
The complaint
A director complains on behalf of business L that Yachtline Ltd (Yachtline) mis-sold a 
marine insurance policy which led to a claim being declined.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
In August 2021 Ls boat was involved in a collision causing damage to another 
vessel.
L tells us the claim was declined because the vessel was incorrectly insured on a 
laid up basis, and not covered whilst being sailed.
L has shown an email from April 2020 in which it states the boat will not be used at 
all until April 2021 next year. And says it was clear it only wanted the boat to be 
insured on a laid up basis until April 2020, and should have cover to include sailing 
the boat from April 2021.
Yachtline say the June 2020 renewal reflected that the boat was laid up. And the 
June 2021 renewal was also issued on a laid up basis. So there was no cover whilst 
the boat was in use.
Yachtline say they were advised of the August 2021 collision in January 2022 by the 
third party.
Our investigator didnt think Yachtline had done anything wrong. She said the 2021 
renewal explicitly said the quote was still based on a laid up basis, and Yachtline had 
asked L if there had been any changes. She added the onus was on L to read the 
policy terms and ensure its suitable. 
L disagreed with the outcome and asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for largely the same 
reasons.
Ive seen that in the April 2020 email L does state the boat will not be used at all until April 
2021. However, it doesnt explicitly state it will use it from April 2021. L was provided with a 
partial refund of premium to reflect the change in risk for the period from April 2020 to the 
renewal in June 2020. And the policy was renewed in June 2020 on a laid up basis.
Of more importance, and the crux of this complaint, is the 2021 renewal as the collision 
happened approximately 2 months later. Ive seen the 2 page renewal quote and the 
covering email. The renewal quote includes the following details:
NAVIGATION LIMITS ;   Laid up ashore, location
IN COMMISSION PERIOD ;   Nil  Laid up full period
The covering email contains 2 sentences and says:
 Please find the renewal invitation attached, based on laid up ashore (12 months) basis. 
Please advise if any changes and if the value remains the same.
L and its representative say it was not aware the renewal was on a laid up basis, but Im 
satisfied the information provided at renewal was clear. 
I note Ls comments about not reading the small print. I agree with our investigator that the 
onus is on L to read the policy terms and ensure are suitable. However, in this case L didnt 
need to read the policy terms or any small print, it was explicit in the renewal invitation and 
covering email that the policy was on a laid up basis. And it had the opportunity to advise of 
any changes prior to the renewal date.
Taking everything into account in the circumstances of this case Im not persuaded Yachtline 
has done anything wrong, so I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman