DRN-2818824
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as L and L, is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc 
(AXA) handled its claim on a Commercial and Accidental Landlords Insurance policy. 
What happened
There was a fire at L and Ls premises in late May 2020. The fire caused damage to the 
ground floor commercial premises and the first-floor residential accommodation. 
L and L made a claim to AXA under its Commercial and Accidental Landlords Insurance 
policy. AXA accepted the claim.
The entire business premises was damaged by the fire and would require extensive 
restoration, during which the business couldnt operate.
L and L hired a loss assessor to deal with its claim. 
L and Ls loss assessor appointed a drying out company to visit the premises. They reported 
on 26 May 2020 that when the fire had been put out an excessive amount of water had been 
used. And this had caused water damage to certain areas of the building. Photos of the 
damage were also taken at this time. 
AXA arranged for a virtual site visit to take place on 23 June 2020. L and L dispute that this 
visit took place.
L and L complained to AXA on 26 August 2020 about the service itd received throughout the 
claim. It said it hadnt been able to get hold of the claims handler who was dealing with its 
claim. It felt that AXAs inaction had delayed the claim by at least eight weeks. L and L also 
noted that part of the claim was still to be paid. L and L felt that the delay had cost it between 
£3,500 and £4,000 a week.
AXA acknowledged L and Ls complaint but didnt address it. So L and L brought its 
complaint to this service. 
Before our investigator had reached her view, L and L confirmed that all outstanding 
payments relating to the claim had been received by the end of January 2021.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. As the claim had been fully settled she didnt feel AXA 
needed to do any more on that. But she felt that AXA had delayed the processing of the 
payments on the claim. To put things right, she recommended AXA paid L and L £200 
compensation.
L and L didnt think this was fair. It didnt believe that AXA had visited the site until 14 August 
2020, eight weeks after the fire. It felt that AXA had caused delays to the restoration works 
that had cost it significant amounts of money. So the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the information provided, Im going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
The issue at the heart of this complaint is whether AXA caused avoidable delays to the 
restoration process. AXA say they arranged a virtual site visit on 23 June 2020. L and L 
doesnt believe this took place. Instead, it believes AXA first visited the premises on 14 
August 2020. 
Looking at the policy documentation, it appears L and L didnt have cover for business 
interruption, so the only way I think AXA could be responsible for covering such costs would 
be if they were only incurred because of AXAs fault. 
I know this will be extremely disappointing to L and L, but having looked at all the evidence, 
Im satisfied that AXA didnt cause avoidable delays to the restoration process. The initial 
drying out works were quickly assessed through L and Ls own loss assessor. AXA arranged 
for a virtual site visit around a month after the fire. I dont think this is unreasonable.
I acknowledge that L and L doesnt think that the 23 June 2020 site visit took place. But AXA 
have confirmed that a digital visit took place on that date. These were normal practice 
throughout most of 2020 due to the pandemic. AXA told us that the digital visit was arranged 
at L and Ls loss assessors request. They said theyd tried to arrange an earlier appointment 
but kept missing each other. So Im not persuaded that AXA did anything wrong by 
conducting this type of visit when they did. And Im satisfied that the digital site visit did take 
place. So I dont hold AXA responsible for any delays to the restoration process.  
L and L has also complained that AXA delayed the processing of the payments on the claim. 
From what Ive seen, there were some issues here. The loss assessor AXA allocated to their 
case was on notice and doesnt appear to have been engaged in their claim. And its clear 
that the case wasnt transferred to a new loss assessor in a seamless manner. Although L 
and L has confirmed that all payments have now been made, the process has clearly been 
stressful. So I agree with our investigator that AXA should award compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience they caused. And I think that £200 is reasonable under the 
circumstances.
 
Putting things right
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay L and L £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delays to the processing of the payments on the claim.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is to uphold the complaint. 
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay L and L £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L and L to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Jo OccleshawOmbudsman