DRN-2248662
The complaint
Mr K complains Barclays Bank UK Plc will not refund two ATM transactions which he says 
he did not make. It then gave him notice to close his account.
Barclays says the evidence suggests he authorised the transactions.
What happened
Mr K complained about two ATM withdrawals made on 18th April 2020.  He said he had not 
made them.  He told Barclays his card and wallet had been stolen from his locker at work 
and he had not realised until later that evening  but this was a few days before the 
transactions.
Barclays said Mr Ks PIN had also been used successfully to make the transactions and 
there had been no credible explanation as to how it could have been compromised.  It also 
said it was entitled to end its business relationship with Mr K and so, was entitled to give him 
notice that his account would be closed.
When Barclays did not uphold Mr Ks complaint, he came to this service.
He told us he worked as a security guard and two days before the disputed transactions, he 
had been chasing some shoplifters.  This was when he had dropped his wallet on the floor, 
and it had been picked up by a woman.  He was certain this woman had shoulder surfed him 
a few days earlier and so was able to use his card and PIN a few days later in order to make 
these transactions.
Our investigator did not think she could ask Barclays to do anymore.  She said Mr K had 
been inconsistent in the accounts he had given to Barclays and then to this service.  But Mr 
K was not happy and asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am afraid that I arrive at the same conclusion as the investigator  and for very much the 
same reasons.
Mr Ks version of events has changed from what he told Barclays to what he told this 
service.  The accounts he gives are so far apart that I dont think its likely Mr K has got them 
confused.
I also note Mr K logged onto his online banking just minutes before the first transaction, 
during the transactions and then a few hours after them.  This is when he complained to 
Barclays.  He hasnt been able to tell this service why he wasnt alerted to the first 
transaction when he logged on just after it had taken place.
He also has not been able to explain why he hadnt reported his card lost or stolen on the 
day he says he lost it.  Especially if he had suspicions that the lady who took it was the same 
lady who had shoulder surfed him a few days earlier.
Barclays has also queried why a fraudster would steal Mr Ks card and then wait for two 
days before they used it.  I have considered that submission and think there is some 
strength in that argument.
I remind myself that Barclays needs to show Mr K authorised these transactions.  Its not for 
Mr K to show he did not.  But when I look at the evidence available, I am satisfied Barclays 
was neither unfair nor unreasonable in how it dealt with Mr Ks complaint.
With regards the account closure, the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account allow for 
Barclays to terminate its business relationship with him.  In some circumstances, it needs to 
give the appropriate notice and I am pleased to see this was done in Mr Ks case.
My final decision
My final decsision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman