DRN-4503267
The complaint
Mr V complains that Monzo Bank Ltd irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr V says that Monzo should have never approved an account for him with such a large 
overdraft (£500). He says that when he applied for the account, if they would have checked 
his credit file, they would have seen missed payments towards other debts and saw he used 
other overdraft facilities and had taken several payday loans. Mr V made a complaint to 
Monzo.
Monzo did not uphold Mr Vs complaint, but they said they added £25 to his account due to 
an admin error in delaying the complaint response. Monzo said they were confident that they 
lent in a responsible manner based on the information available to them, that he earned 
£1,505 net per month and they estimated he had £340 a month affordability capacity. 
Monzo said when they performed their manual review they noticed a bug in this calculation 
in that they didnt take into account the balance of any credit cards or overdrafts with other 
banks. They said reviewing this now, using data from when he applied, they estimated he 
had £182.12 a month affordability capacity. Mr V brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Vs complaint. He said the checks Monzo did before 
giving Mr V the overdraft were reasonable and proportionate, and he didnt think there would 
have been any concerns that Mr V wouldnt be able to repay this. So he couldnt say that 
Monzo acted irresponsibly when they gave Mr V the overdraft facility. Our investigator said 
Monzo have recognised that an overdraft isnt suitable for long term borrowing. But Mr V had 
been using all of his overdraft for around 18 months and he hadnt demonstrated any ability 
to be able to manage the debt, and he wasnt gaining any benefit from having the overdraft 
because he never had any credit available, and he was mostly paying overdraft fees. 
Our investigator said that Monzo were aware that Mr V had been experiencing financial 
difficulties, and our investigator thought Monzo should have taken more effective measures 
at this point. He said there was a reference to a Notice of Default on 29 January 2021, and it 
was unclear whether this was sent or the terms of repayment that might have been set out in 
the notice. But he thought that calling in the debt, applying appropriate forbearance 
measures and coming to a sustainable arrangement for the outstanding balance would have 
been a sensible thing to do. So he said the default should be backdated to 29 January 2021, 
any fees/charges/interest from this date should be removed, and for them to make a 
repayment arrangement with Mr V.
Monzo asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said it did appear Mr V was 
experiencing financial difficulties, but as this wasnt his main account, they never had a full 
picture of his financial circumstances. They said they made many attempts to contact Mr V 
to provide support. When he messaged them, they always responded, but he never engaged 
in further questioning. Monzo said if Mr V does not engage, they are limited in what they can 
do.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve or increase the credit available to Mr V, Monzo needed to make 
proportionate checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for him. 
Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect 
lenders to consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the 
borrower's income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as 
the consumer's personal circumstances. Ive listed below what checks Monzo have done 
and whether Im persuaded these checks were proportionate.
Monzo have said as part of their creditworthiness assessment they use a variety of data 
including data from Mr Vs credit file and credit score from a named credit reference agency 
(CRA), information on his profile, information he supplied as part of the application process, 
and information about his usage of the Monzo account. They did not identify any defaults or 
instances where Mr V recently missed two payments. They identified he had six accounts. 
But Monzo have admitted that due to an error, they didnt take into account the balance of 
any credit cards or overdrafts with other banks. So Im not persuaded that the checks they 
carried out at the application stage were proportionate.
So I asked Mr V for a copy of his credit file which I thank him for providing me. This is to see 
what Monzo should have seen about his accounts with other lenders prior to them approving 
him for a £500 overdraft. The credit file shows that Mr V already had a £2,300 overdraft with 
another company. 
So as part of a proportionate check, Im persuaded that it wouldve been proportionate for 
Monzo to take a closer look at Mr Vs credit file to see how much or if any of this overdraft 
was being used for the three months prior to approving him for a £500 overdraft with 
themselves. As Mr V already had an overdraft which was nearly five times the amount of the 
overdraft they approved him for. 
Mr Vs credit file shows that prior to Monzo approving the £500 overdraft for him that he was 
exceeding his credit limit. So it would appear that Mr V could not manage his existing 
overdraft, and this was before Monzo increased his borrowings by £500. So Im persuaded it 
would have been proportionate to take a closer look at his overdraft elsewhere as part of a 
proportionate check to see if the £500 was affordable and sustainable for him. 
The credit file Mr V has provided me with shows that he regularly exceeded his overdraft for 
a longer time period than just three months prior to being accepted for the Monzo overdraft. 
But there is also information on his credit file that could evidence that Mr V was experiencing 
financial difficulties prior to the overdraft being approved by Monzo.
I say this because Mr Vs credit file shows that only 15 months prior to Monzo approving the 
£500 overdraft, his overdraft elsewhere was at £1,000, but only three months later  the year 
before Monzo approved his overdraft  he increased this by 50% to £1,500, which could 
indicate he was needing to borrow more money to meet his outgoings. But the following 
month  11 months prior to Monzo approving the overdraft  he increased the overdraft by 
more than another 50%, so the total overdraft on his current account elsewhere was £2,300. 
So as Mr V had recently increased this twice within a short period of time and twice within 
the 12 month period prior to Monzo approving the £500 overdraft limit, Im persuaded that there were signs that Mr V could not manage his own overdraft, and therefore he would be 
unlikely to be able to afford a new £500 overdraft with Monzo.
Mr Vs credit file shows that he often exceeded his overdraft limit. And given that Monzos 
figures showed Mr V received £1,505 a month net income, then the reality is that for Mr V to 
pay back his Monzo overdraft, he would need to use debt to pay this debt back, which is not 
sustainable. So I do think that if Monzo had made proportionate checks prior to the overdraft 
being approved, they would have been able to foresee what actually did happen  that Mr V 
almost immediately used the overdraft limit and often exceeded it, which was the same 
behaviour as he displayed with his other overdraft. 
While this alone would suggest that Monzo did not make a fair lending decision, Mr Vs credit 
file shows he also opened another current account just over four months before he opened 
his Monzo account. While information is limited on this account on the credit file, this account 
may have also been approved with an overdraft which in light of the recent overdraft 
increases on his main current account would have supported what Im persuaded that 
happened with Mr V not being able to meet his outgoings from his income, hence the 
constant, frequent increasing of his debt, but Im unable to say this for certain based on the 
information on his credit file. 
But I suspect this is a possibility given his credit file shows this current account defaulted 
with a balance of £529. And while based on Mr Vs previous behaviour, its likely he always 
had an overdraft on this account, I also accept that its possible Mr V applied for an overdraft 
after his Monzo overdraft had been approved, but regardless of this there were signs that Mr 
V was already in financial difficulty prior to the Monzo account being opened. So Im not 
persuaded that Monzo made a fair lending decision here, so it follows I intend to ask them to 
put things right for Mr V.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Monzo did not respond to the provisional decision, Mr V accepted the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask 
Monzo Bank Ltd to do the following;
Monzo should arrange to transfer any debt back to themselves if it has been passed to a 
debt recovery agent or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out below is carried out 
promptly;
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, and charges, that have been applied;
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr V along with
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of
settlement. Monzo should also remove all adverse information regarding this account from
his credit file;Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Monzo should arrange an
affordable repayment plan with Mr V for the remaining amount. Once Mr V has cleared
the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be removed from
his credit file.
Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously
*If Monzo consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr V how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
Mr V a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd should settle the complaint in line with the 
instructions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman