DRN-3079881
The complaint
Mrs N complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly increased the credit limit on her credit card 
account to unaffordable levels.
 What happened
Mrs N says she accepts that NewDay was entitled to allow her to open her credit card 
account in 2017. She says she was working at that time but lost her job in around April 2018. 
Mrs N says her credit history was poor and NewDay shouldnt have increased the credit limit 
to unaffordable levels. Mrs N would like the debt written off and any adverse information 
removed from her credit file.
NewDay says it upheld the complaint in part and shouldnt have allowed the last credit limit 
increase. It says the account was opened in 2017 and Mrs N had an income of £19,000 a 
year with debts of about £7,700. It also says she had four previous defaults the last being 
some 22 months old. NewDay approved a credit limit of £450 which was increased to £1,700 
in January 2019. The limit was further increased in May 2019 to £2,700 and again to £3,450 
in September 2019 before the final increase to £5,450 in January 2020. NewDay says 
appropriate checks were carried out and it considered Mrs Ns account management. It has 
agreed to refund charges and interest from the last increase date.
Mrs N brought her complaint to us and has provided evidence of her financial position in the 
form of bank account statements but says she cant obtain a copy of her credit report. Our 
investigator thought the original lending was affordable and didnt think Mrs N raised any 
concern about that. The investigator thought Mrs N managed her account appropriately 
before the first credit limit increase and thought NewDay carried our appropriate checks. The 
investigator also thought appropriate checks were carried out in May 2019 and didnt think 
Mrs N had told NewDay about the change in her circumstances.
The investigator didnt think the credit limit increase in September 2019 was affordable or 
appropriate and thought NewDay ought to have considered that it had only been four months 
since the last increase and in that time Mrs Ns account had been suspended. The 
investigator also thought that Mrs Ns spending and cash advances ought to have triggered 
further credit checks. She recommended interest and charges be refunded from that date 
and adverse information removed from Mrs Ns credit file.
NewDay doesnt accept that view and says it is not required to carry out income/expenditure 
calculations with customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view as the investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. I make clear to Mrs N that without her credit file I cant fairly comment on 
what she says was adverse information on it. I can of course comment on the evidence that I 
do have.
NewDay knows that it must carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any credit 
application or on an increase in a credit limit. Those checks will of course vary depending on 
the type and amount of any lending. This was a credit facility rather than for example a 
mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected NewDays checks to have been as detailed as for 
that type of lending.
Im satisfied that Mrs N applied for the account in 2017 and that she was working with an 
income of about £19,000. I can see that NewDay did carry out checks on Mrs Ns credit file 
and the level of her debt. So, Im satisfied that NewDay carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on the original application and approved what I think was a modest 
credit limit of £450. And that the lending was affordable.
The first credit limit increase took place in January 2019 and again I think was relatively 
modest. I can see that NewDay did carry out checks on the increase and was entitled to 
consider Mrs Ns account management which I think was appropriate. The credit limit was 
again increased in May 2019 which I think was some time after the last increase. And I m 
satisfied that checks were carried out and that there was nothing to suggest financial 
difficulties at that stage. So, I think NewDay did carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on those two-credit limit increases and that on the face of it they were not 
irresponsible but affordable.
The next credit limit increase took place in September 2019 which I think was within a 
relatively short time period after the last increase. In those circumstances I would have 
expected NewDay to have looked carefully at Mrs Ns account management since the last 
increase. I can see from NewDays account statements that Mrs Ns account had been 
suspended and that she had exceeded her existing credit limit. I can also see that Mrs N 
was using her account for numerous gambling transactions and was using the account to 
withdraw cash. There was also a late payment fee before the increase.
So, I dont think there could be any justification in those circumstances to increase Mrs Ns 
credit limit and think that NewDay ought to have had reasonable concerns about her account 
and her spending as it had just suspended it. I appreciate NewDay says Mrs N didnt tell it 
about the change in her circumstances but equally I think it ought to have been obvious to it 
that there were problems in June/July 2019 and enough warning signs.
I appreciate Mrs N would like this debt written off, but I find that would be unfair and clearly 
Mrs N had the benefit of the money.
Putting things right
NewDay should refund all interest and charges from the credit limit increase in September 
2019. It should also remove any adverse data that it has registered on Mrs Ns credit file 
caused by that increase. NewDay should agree a repayment plan with Mrs N on the balance 
over that credit limit amount which should be interest free and it should pay her £100 
compensation as recommended by the investigator for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. I think such an award to be fair and reasonable. I dont think it likely that there will 
be an actual overpayment due to Mrs N after these amendments as I can see there is a 
significant balance outstanding that the refund will be deducted from.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order NewDay Limited to refund 
any charges or interest applied to Mrs Ns account from September 2019 caused by the credit limit increase that month. It should also remove any adverse information from Mrs Ns 
credit file caused by that increase and agree an interest free repayment plan with her. I also 
order NewDay Limited to pay Mrs N £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman