DRN-2319441
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) delayed opening their new savings 
account. They also complain about Lloyds handling of their complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had an appointment at their local Lloyds branch on 17 February  this was to 
move their savings into a new account. The appointment couldnt go ahead due to problems 
with Lloyds IT systems. Mr and Mrs S werent told about this - they had a wasted journey. 
Lloyds offered Mr and Mrs S £50 as a goodwill gesture.
After further delays and phone calls, another appointment was made for 23 March. Lloyds 
apologised for the delay and offered to increase their goodwill gesture to £100.
 
On 23 March Mr and Mrs Ss new account was opened. But they struggled to progress their 
complaint about the customer service theyd received  Mr S says he spent a long time 
trying to get a response from Lloyds.
On 26 June Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs S. They apologised for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by their delay in opening the new account - they said theyd pay £100 
into Mr & Mrs Ss account to make up for this. Lloyds also recognised the delay meant Mr & 
Mrs S had missed out on £11.01 in interest. Lloyds added this to the account - to be paid as 
part of the annual interest payment the following March.
One of our investigators looked in to things for Mr and Mrs S. He thought the £100 
compensation plus £11.01 interest already offered by Lloyds was a fair outcome. Mr and Mrs 
S werent happy with this  they thought they should receive more compensation. They also 
thought they should receive the interest on their savings the following February, instead of 
having to wait until March. The case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds have accepted that things went wrong. They recognise that Mr and Mrs S would have 
received interest on their savings from 17 February if their appointment hadnt been 
cancelled. To put this right, Lloyds have credited Mr and Mrs Ss account with the amount of 
interest they would have earned between 17 February and 23 March. I think this is fair.
All interest on this account is paid annually. I recognise that Mr and Mrs S would have 
received their interest payment a year from when the account was opened  which would 
have been 17 February if the account had been set up on their first visit to Lloyds. But I 
havent seen any evidence to show receiving their interest on 23 March has caused them 
financial loss or inconvenience. So I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything more here.
I agree with the investigators view that a total of £100 is fair and reasonable compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs S in this case. I can see that Mr 
and Mrs S feel very strongly that this isnt enough. Theyd like to know how we make 
decisions about compensation, so Ill explain how we do this.
Theres no set formula we can use to calculate how much compensation is appropriate. 
Every case is different, because each of our customers circumstances are different. 
Businesses do make mistakes - were not here to punish them for getting things wrong. Our 
role is to decide what impact their error had on the customer, and whats needed to put that 
right. 
In this case Mr and Mrs S had a wasted trip to their local branch, and their appointment 
couldnt be rearranged straight away. Mr S made several phone calls before a suitable 
appointment was confirmed, which must have been frustrating. But their account was 
opened just over a month later, so Mr and Mrs S didnt have to worry about their potential 
loss of interest on their savings for very long. 
Mr and Mrs S made further phone calls chasing Lloyds for compensation. I realise Lloyds 
delays in dealing with this have increased Mr and Mrs Ss frustration - but I think £100 
compensation is fair and reasonable for the amount of inconvenience caused here. 
My final decision
To settle this complaint Lloyds Bank PLC paid £100 compensation and £11.01 interest to Mr 
and Mrs S. I think this is fair in all the circumstances, so Im not going to ask Lloyds to do 
anything more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman