DRN-3446299
The complaint
Miss G complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
irresponsibly provided her with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Miss G with a loan as follows:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
payable
30 August 2019 £1,350 24 months £107.47 £2,579.28
When Miss G complained to 118 118 Money it didnt uphold her complaint so she brought 
her complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. After completing his investigation, our 
adjudicator thought that a default added to Miss Gs credit file suggested there was a 
significant risk that she wouldve been unable to sustainably meet her repayments for this 
loan and it shouldnt have been provided. Our adjudicator set out the steps he felt 118 118 
Money should take to put things right.  
118 118 Money disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said that the default our 
adjudicator had mentioned had been put on Miss Gs credit file over a year earlier and 
Miss G had been paying £100 per month towards this each month and the balance was 
coming down.  
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
I can see that 118 118 Money gathered some information from Miss G about her income and 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It said it completed industry standard verification checks 
to validate the information Miss G provided and it checked her credit file to understand her 
existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. 118 118 Money recorded information 
showing that Miss Gs monthly income was around £1,850 and after allowing for her 
declared monthly outgoings and an amount to cover her existing credit commitments seen 
on the credit report it obtained,118 118 Money said the loan monthly repayments looked 
comfortably affordable out of her disposable income.
The credit checks 118 118 Money carried out showed that Miss G wasnt involved in any sort 
of arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. She had no active county 
court judgements registered and no significant recent defaults on her record. 
She had a credit card account that had defaulted around 14 months earlier in June 2018. But 
she had managed to reduce the original default balance on that account by more than 
£1,000 by the time she applied for this loan. So I think its fair to say that this suggested she 
seemed to be on top of this debt despite her earlier payment problems. And I dont think 
there was anything else shown in 118 118 Moneys credit checks that was enough to cause 
a responsible lender to think the information it had gathered overall amounted to evidence of 
ongoing serious money problems. Miss G was well within the £200 overdraft limit on one 
current account and she had an unused £800 overdraft facility on another account which 118 
118 Moneys checks showed she hadnt relied on much during the previous 8 months shown 
on the credit report - or at all in the last 4 months. Her biggest monthly expense was her 
mortgage and she seemed to have managed the monthly repayments of more than £500 for 
the last 5 months and brought that account back up to date after missing some payments.
I think its fair to say that whilst the credit checks 118 118 Money obtained showed that 
Miss G had previously had some money problems, in the main, the information 118 118 
Money had gathered tended to suggest that Miss G seemed to be managing her credit 
without any signs that she was struggling with financial difficulty. 
It wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending to have an impaired 
credit history. And this wouldnt necessarily be a fair reason to decline a loan application. 
I dont think the overall amount of unsecured debt shown on Miss Gs credit checks was 
excessive having regard to her income  she didnt have any other loans or credit cards or 
mail order accounts for instance. 
And I dont think that anything else revealed in the credit checks 118 118 Money carried out 
was enough for me to say that a responsible lender shouldve realised it needed to find out 
more before lending or that it should have refused the loan application altogether. 
It was fair for 118 118 Money to decide Miss Gs lending application based on the 
information it was reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. I dont think it was unreasonable 
for 118 118 Money to provide this loan as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it 
had, to suggest Miss G wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. The loan 
appeared to be affordable looking at Miss Gs income and expenditure. 
And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required 118 118 Money to probe any more 
deeply into Miss Gs finances or ask Miss G to prove what she was declaring (by requiring 
her to send in her bank statements for instance) or check other information sources to verify 
what she had told the lender (or omitted to say) about her financial circumstances. So for these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint. 
I accept that Miss Gs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the other information 118 118 Money obtained. But in order to 
uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
In this case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan 
to Miss G. And I havent seen enough to make me think that 118 118 Money acted towards 
Miss G in any other way that wasnt fair and reasonable.
I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Miss G but hope setting out the reasons as 
Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. 
If Miss G would like help to manage her spending theres more information about how to get 
free debt advice and other support on our website  or we can provide contact details if she 
gives us a call.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Miss G hasnt sent me any further information. 118 118 Money has acknowledged my 
provisional decision and has nothing further to add. I asked for responses by today so I think 
its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman