DRN-3872122
The complaint
Miss J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) is holding her liable for a 
utilised overdraft facility in her name.  Miss J argues she was coerced into opening the 
associated account and transferring funds out from it.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In March 2018, a NatWest student account with a £2,000 overdraft facility was opened in 
branch in Miss Js name.  A few days later, £1,993 of the facility was transferred to another 
account.  Miss J says that her mother coerced her into opening the account and transferring 
the funds to her (mothers) account.  Because of this, Miss J argues she should not be held 
liable for the associated overdraft facility and that her credit file should be amended 
accordingly.
Miss J raised a complaint about this matter with NatWest through our Service.  As NatWest 
did not find in her favour, one of our investigators considered the complaint and did not 
uphold it.
As Miss J does not accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Miss J accepts that she opened the account concerned which included an overdraft facility 
(the Account).  However, Miss Js argument is that she opened the Account under duress.  
That is, her mother coerced her into doing so.
I have considered all the material Miss J has submitted to support the difficult relationship 
she says she has with her mother  and I do sympathise with the position she is in; 
particularly her personal circumstances which she has described.  
However, when considering whether NatWest should hold Miss J liable for the credit facility 
 I must bear in mind the fact that NatWest was not aware of the situation Miss J says she 
was in at the time.  That is, based on the evidence before me, there is nothing to suggest 
that when Miss J opened the Account in branch: NatWest knew, or ought reasonably to have 
known, she was doing so under duress.  For this reason, I cannot fairly say that Miss J 
should not be held liable for the Account.  As far as NatWest was concerned at the time, the 
Account was opened in good faith.
In Miss Js submissions, she says, amongst other things, Once these accounts were open, I 
did not have control of them, and the overdraft amount was shortly transferred to my 
mothers account.  Having considered this point, I have not seen any satisfactory evidence 
to show that Miss Js mother made the transfer without Miss Js consent.  Therefore, I 
cannot safely conclude that the transfer was unauthorised.
To my mind, there is an argument to say that the transfer concerned should have flagged on 
NatWests systems  therefore prompting it to intervene.  I say this in particular given the 
transfer took place shortly after the account was open and that it amounted to almost all of 
the overdraft limit.  However, whilst it could be argued this transaction should have 
triggered, I am not satisfied that had NatWest stopped the payment and spoke to Miss J 
before releasing it  this would have made a difference in the circumstances.  That is, I take 
the view that had NatWest intervened, Miss J would have assured it all was well and 
alleviated any concerns it may have had  thus continuing with the transfer.  
I say this because if, as Miss J says, her mother was able to coerce her to the extent of 
going into branch to open the Account  I find it unlikely that Miss J would have told NatWest 
anything untoward was happening when the transfer was made only a few days later.  
Further, I note Miss J only informed NatWest about the matter complained of more than a 
year after the transfer was made.  This also leads me to conclude that it is unlikely Miss J 
would have told NatWest what was happening if it had stopped the transfer and spoke to 
her.
If Miss J has any issues with NatWest regarding repayment towards the Account  this is 
something she will need to raise with it separately.
Taking all the above factors together  I am satisfied that NatWest has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.  Therefore, I will not be asking it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman