DRN-3066907
The complaint
This complaint is about an application Mr O and Mrs W made for a Halifax-branded 
mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc. Theyre unhappy that Halifax initially offered an 18-year 
term, but then re-offered the mortgage on a 19-year and then a 20-year term.
What Ive decided  and why
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them 
again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, 
and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job 
of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts.
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the 
ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow money; but a lender must treat customers 
(or potential customers) fairly. In the context of an application for lending, that means 
assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria. Lenders criteria are 
commercially sensitive and not generally made public.
Also, generally speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders 
commercial judgement on how much or on what terms it will lend, and I see no reason to 
depart from that position here. My role is to judge whether Halifax applied its lending 
criteria to Mr O and Mrs Ws application fairly when reaching its judgement, not to 
substitute my judgement in place of Halifaxs.
Having looked at all the available evidence, nothing in the evidence supplied by either 
party gives me reason to think Halifaxs assessment of Mr O and Mrs Ws application was 
anything other than a fair reflection of its lending criteria. Decisions like this are rarely the 
result of just one factor on its own; theyre more likely to flow from the combined effect of 
several.
Mr O and Mrs W believe                              may be embedded in Halifaxs decision-
making process, and thats entirely their prerogative. Theres nothing in the available 
evidence pointing to that, but if Mr O and Mrs W wish to, they can raise their concerns 
with the regulator.
All thing considered, there are no grounds for me to second-guess or otherwise interfere 
with the decisions Halifax made. I realise Mr O and Mrs W think differently, but whilst 
Halifaxs refusal to revert to the initial 18-year term was unwelcome to them, it wasnt unfair, 
and thats the test I have to apply. The fact that a previous lender has offered them a similar 
mortgage in the past on the basis of a lesser income isnt relevant. Each lender has its own 
appetite for risk and exercises its own judgement on what it considers affordable.
The investigator recommended Halifax pay Mr O and Mrs W £200 compensation for 
unnecessary stress caused by the time it took to finalise the terms on which it was willing 
to lend. In all the circumstances, I think thats fair.
Ill make one last observation. Mr O and Mrs W took exception to being asked by our 
investigator if theyd taken the mortgage with Halifax or gone to another lender; they say 
the question was irrelevant and a distraction. For completeness, I dont agree. Its for our 
judgement to decide what is relevant to an investigation, and here the question was 
appropriate and relevant, as it went towards establishing whether and to what extent Mr O 
and Mrs W had changed their position in response to Halifaxs final mortgage offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part by ordering Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to pay Mr O and Mrs W £200. I make no other order or award. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman