DRN-1720403
 
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Metro Bank PLC dealt with his chargeback.
What happened
Mr A says he bought items online that he didn't receive. He says he spoke to the merchant 
to cancel the order and also told Metro to cancel the transaction. Mr A says he received a 
refund which he spent but later found out Metro had taken the money for the purchase out of 
his account twice. He says he couldn't have signed for the items as he was out of the 
country at the time and the signature is not his. Mr A says he is prepared to repay the money 
that he was given in error but says he should receive a refund for the item he bought which 
cost him over £500. And the problems have affected his credit score.
Metro says it raised a chargeback for the disputed amount of just over £580 but the 
chargeback was defended. And evidence of delivery was provided. It says it wrote to Mr A 
with that information in November 2018 and told him he needed to comment within a time 
limit. But Mr A didn't respond and so it closed the chargeback. It accepts it credited Mr A's 
account twice and didn't deal with parts of his complaint, when it spoke to him appropriately. 
Metro has paid £40 compensation for that part of the complaint.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
explained the chargeback rules and thought Metro was entitled to close the claim when Mr A 
didn't respond. He also thought the letter sent in November 2018 was correctly addressed 
and that Mr A ought to have noticed he had received the money back twice and not spent it. 
The investigator thought the £40 compensation fair and reasonable for that mistake and for 
the poor service during the calls.
Mr A doesn't accept that view and says Metro could have considered other ways of 
communicating with him and says he should not have to pay for items not received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons. I realise Mr A will be disappointed 
by my decision and I appreciate his frustration that he has paid for an item he has not 
received. But for the reasons I will explain I'm satisfied that it's not Metro's fault for what took 
place, and that Mr A  will need to take up his concerns with both the delivery company and 
the company he bought the item from.
The chargeback scheme is run by the card providers and not, as in this case, Metro. Metro is 
not responsible for the chargeback rules and time limits and it doesn't decide on the merits 
of a chargeback. We would expect a bank or building society to raise a chargeback in these 
circumstances and I'm satisfied that is what took place here. I'm also satisfied that Metro 
wrote to Mr A and told him that the chargeback was being defended and that it would need further information to continue to progress the chargeback. There is no dispute here that Mr 
A didn't provide that information. I appreciate Mr A says he didn't receive that letter, but that 
is not something I can fairly hold Metro responsible for as it doesn't deliver the mail.
Mr A didn't provide Metro with any further information within the chargeback time limits, and 
so I don't think Metro made a mistake or acted unfairly by closing the chargeback. In those 
circumstances I don't think Metro made a mistake by debiting the money out of Mr A's 
account. But I accept it made a mistake by crediting the account twice in the first place, and I 
can see Mr A agrees that Metro should be entitled to that money back. I agree with the 
investigator that it ought to have been clear to Mr A that a mistake had been made and I 
wouldn't have expected Mr A to have spent that money. I'm satisfied that Metro has fairly 
apologised for that mistake and for the way in which it dealt with parts of the complaint. And 
has paid what I think is a fair and reasonable level of compensation. I appreciate that is not 
the main part of Mr A's complaint.
I appreciate that Mr A was out of the county when the item was delivered and that the 
signature used to sign for the item was not his. But those are not matters I can fairly hold 
Metro responsible for and  as I have explained, Mr A will need to raise those issues with the 
companies involved.
I'm satisfied that it's up to Metro to decide how it communicates with its customers, and I 
can't fairly conclude it ought to have tried to speak to Mr A or e-mail him a copy of the 
November 2018 letter.
Overall I'm satisfied Metro did what it could to help Mr A under the chargeback rules and I 
also make clear that even if Mr A had received and responded to Metro's letter in November 
2018 - there would not have been any guarantee the card provider (not Metro) would have 
found in Mr A's favour
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman