DRN-2658422
The complaint
Mrs M says Fisher Brown Financial Services Ltd (FBFS) did as follows:
Advised her to encash two bonds in 2016 to mitigate Inheritance Tax (IHT) but did 
not advise her about the tax implications of doing so  leading to an unexpected tax 
liability of almost £25,000; and failed to place the bonds into an appropriate vehicle 
(like a trust), so the IHT mitigation objective was not achieved. [issue 1]
Did not provide, since 2016, the annual reviews she was entitled to. [issue 2]
Made unauthorised changes to her portfolio without her knowledge. [issue 3]
What happened
FBFS position on issue 1 is mainly as follows:
Mrs Ms profile must be noted; she was a retired widow without dependents and she 
lived alone; her annual income was around £15,000 which more than covered her 
monthly outgoings of around £600; her total estate was worth between £1.2 million 
and £1.4 million, including investments with Fidelity, Prudential and Old Mutual; she 
also had a trust, for which she was joint trustee alongside her solicitor.
She always favoured mitigation of her tax liabilities, so in 2016 her objective was to 
mitigate the potential IHT liability on her estate; she had made gift provisions in her 
will for two specific prospective beneficiaries of the Prudential and Old Mutual bonds, 
respectively; and there were unrealised gains (and untaken income) within them. 
The initial plan to assign the bonds to the prospective beneficiaries  in order to start 
the seven year clock and potentially mitigate IHT for the estate if Mrs M survived that 
period  was abandoned when the bond providers said this could not be done; an 
alternative was then agreed whereby a substitute/new (and slightly cheaper) bond 
would be set up; its tax calculation at the time, based on an annual income of 
£25,000 (used for the sake of caution, in case Mrs Ms income was more than 
£15,000), showed that she remained within the basic rate band and that there would 
be no tax liability arising from the transaction.
After the new bond was set up Mrs M changed her mind and decided against the 
assignment to the prospective beneficiaries. The bond has remained within her 
estate since. Had she not changed her mind, the IHT mitigation objective would have 
been achieved around now, given the passage of around seven years. It should also 
be noted that the option of placing the bonds in a trust was presented to Mrs M, but 
she declined it.
With regards to issue 3, FBFS accepts that it made a change, in 2019, to one of the funds in 
Mrs Ms trust without her knowledge. However, it says it acted with authority, that the 
solicitor/joint trustee requested the change and that no financial loss resulted from it. It also 
accepts that it should have informed Mrs M of the change at the time and it apologises for 
not doing so.
With regards to issue 2, and in correspondence with Mrs Ms representative around August 
2019, FBFS explained that she was aware of the personal reasons why its Director could not 
and did not conduct reviews with her in person, but he continued to review her portfolio 
nevertheless and it is a fact that the portfolio continued to prosper and make gains of over 
5% per year during the relevant period. It disputes criticisms about the lack of fundamental 
changes in the portfolio and it argues that it considered it sensible not to make such changes 
to a portfolio that was consistently performing well. 
FBFS also says this service should be aware that, as a gesture of goodwill, it reduced its 
fees significantly from the level applied by Mrs Ms previous adviser; and that after the 
industry wide Retail Distribution Review it erroneously serviced her portfolio for around two 
years without charge and it has never sought to recover the relevant charges.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded it should not be upheld. 
She noted a lack of evidence that the potential tax consequences of FBFS recommendation 
were discussed with Mrs M and she took the view that it should have done more to explain 
that to her. 
However, she considered that Mrs M had not incurred a financial loss in the matter, 
compared to what her position would have been if she followed the recommendation. The 
investigator said:
If Mrs M retained the two bonds, 40% IHT would have applied to them (and to the 
value of her estate) upon her death  post application of the nil rate band.
If Mrs M had followed the recommendation, in full, the tax liability of around £25,000 
she incurred would have been offset by the mitigation of IHT for the value of the two 
bonds; so, overall, she would have been better off.
FBFS cannot fairly be blamed for her decision not to follow the recommendation in 
full  by not assigning the new bond to the prospective beneficiaries  and the same 
applies to her decision not to follow the option to set up a new trust arrangement that 
it recommended.
With regards to issue 3, the investigator agreed with FBFS position that it acted with the 
joint trustees authority, that it should have informed Mrs M and that the fund change did not 
lead to a financial loss.
Mrs Ms representative disagreed with this outcome and he made the following main points:
FBFS advice to Mrs M should have included a tax impact assessment, but it did not. 
This is a serious regulatory failing on its part.
Had such an assessment been shared with Mrs M she would have been aware of 
potential Capital Gains Tax (CGT) liability arising after execution of the 
recommended bond liquidations; and she would not have proceeded with the 
recommendation. 
FBFS failure cost Mrs M the CGT liability of almost £25,000, almost £500 in fees 
incurred from having an accountant double check the matter and £2,000 in FBFS 
fees.
 if [FBFS] advice had been taken then [Mrs Ms] estate may have paid less 
inheritance tax, this is no benefit to [Mrs M], whereas the personal payment of over 
£24,000 in tax is a personal detriment to her.
Mrs M is prepared to ignore issues 2 and 3 as they could be difficult and time 
consuming for this service to determine. But she retains her strength of feeling about 
issue 1 and would like an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken on board Mrs Ms representatives recent comments about ignoring issues 2 
and 3. However, neither issue appears to have been expressly withdrawn from the 
complaint, so I consider that they should be addressed. 
Evidence appears to be mixed on issue 2. Whilst the parties appear to acknowledge that 
reviews in person should have taken place since 2016, there is a section towards the 
conclusion of the suitability letter sent by FBFS to Mrs M in 2016 which says  
Future Contact and Ongoing Services
We believe it is important to review your investment strategy at regular intervals to ensure it 
continues to meet your aims and objectives. Through a range of service levels we offer you 
have selected;
To receive a Transaction only service as detailed in our Service Proposition and 
Engagement. This means we will not review your circumstances or the investment. We do 
however recommend you review the ongoing suitability of your financial arrangements to 
account for any change in your circumstances and any changes to investment markets and 
legislation. This does not prohibit you from contacting us at any time. Please note separate 
charges will apply and will be notified at the time.
[my emphasis]
The content I have emphasised above suggests that there was no obligation upon FBFS to 
review Mrs Ms circumstances or the [bond] investment. If, as it appears, the above evidence 
holds merit, then issue 2 falls away because FBFS had no duty to provide a review service 
to Mrs M  so it cannot reasonably be said that it did wrong by not providing such a service.
However, I should not ignore what appears to be a mutual understanding between the 
parties that a form of review service should have been provided to Mrs M. FBFS explanation 
is that it performed that service remotely and that its Director was unable to meet her for the 
purpose of such reviews due to particular personal circumstances. Relevant correspondence 
makes those circumstances clear. In order to observe the Directors right to privacy  with 
regards to his personal matters   I will not set them out in this decision, but I can note that 
they were of a serious nature and I have not seen evidence to show that they are in dispute 
 so, on balance, I consider FBFS reference to them to be reliable.
In the above context, I can understand the absence of face-to-face review meetings between 
FBFS and Mrs M. I am also persuaded by FBFS argument about reviewing the portfolio 
remotely and making no fundamental changes because none were deemed necessary for 
investments that were performing well. Reviews and portfolio changes should be meaningful, 
and the latter should not be applied just for the sake of appearance  that is, for the sake of 
keeping up an appearance that work is being done on the portfolio. Mrs Ms representative 
could argue that reviews conducted without contact with her fell short of being informed 
about any changes in her circumstances. I agree, but in the present case no such significant 
change appears to have been missed by FBFS and there appears to have been an open 
channel of communication between it and Mrs M during the relevant period.
Available evidence supports, overall, FBFS assertion about the performance of Mrs Ms 
assets. Her representative might argue that perhaps even better performance could have 
been achieved with changes to or within those assets, but that would be speculation. If the 
portfolio had been unnecessarily altered and had thereafter declined in performance it is 
possible, or probable, that FBFS would be criticised for tinkering, unnecessarily, with a prospering portfolio. Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above I am not 
persuaded to uphold issue 2.
Issue 3 appears to be resolved by evidence that the portfolio change performed by FBFS 
was done alongside the joint trustee (Mrs Ms solicitor). This shows it was not unauthorised 
as alleged. I welcome FBFS acceptance that it should have kept Mrs M informed. I agree 
that it should have done so, and I note that it has apologised in this respect. I have not seen 
evidence that establishes a financial loss resulting from the relevant change. Overall and on 
balance, I do not consider there are ground to uphold issue 3.
Issue 1 features a complaint about a recommendation that was only partly followed. This 
aspect should not be ignored, especially as the part of the recommendation that was not 
followed was the part designed to deliver Mrs Ms IHT mitigation objective. By this, I mean 
the assignment of the new bond to the prospective beneficiaries of the previous two bonds.  
This was the part of FBFS recommendation that was intended to show value of advice for 
Mrs M, but she changed her mind about it, and it did not progress any further.
Unfortunately, implementation of the first part of the recommendation  that is, liquidation of 
the two previous bonds  without implementation of the second part (assignment of the new 
bond) meant that the net benefit between the tax liability arising from the former and the tax 
mitigation and savings achievable from the latter (after seven years) was never given a 
chance to materialise. Mrs M was left, only, with the tax liability.
I share the investigators finding that FBFS failed to provide the tax impact assessment that 
Mrs Ms representative has referred to. This part of issue 1 is upheld, because it is a matter 
of fact that the suitability letter sent to Mrs M was devoid of such an assessment and I have 
not seen any wider evidence of an alternative form of assessment shared with her.
If Mrs M considers this as a matter of regulatory breach, she is entitled to consider referring 
to the regulator. This service is not the regulator, so we do not make awards to punish firms 
for regulatory breaches. Instead, our awards are based on whether (or not) a complaint has 
been upheld and, if so, whether (or not) a financial loss has been incurred by the 
complainant as a result of the firms wrongdoing.
The complaint in issue 1, as it has been presented, is essentially that FBFS 
recommendation was unsuitable  because of the absent tax impact assessment (and lack 
of notice of the potential CGT liability) and because the alternative of using a trust was not 
addressed. FBFS failed to do the former but it did not fail to do the latter. There is evidence 
in the suitability letter that it considered the use of a trust and shared its advice on this with 
Mrs M. It appears that Mrs M did not wish to proceed with the trust alternative.
The next consideration is whether (or not) FBFS recommendation was unsuitable because it 
lacked a tax impact assessment and/or because of the potential CGT liability. I am not 
persuaded that it was. I appreciate that Mrs Ms representative says she would not have 
proceeded with the recommendation had she been given prior warning of a CGT liability. He 
considers the absent tax impact assessment and absent warning to be pivotal. However, I 
do not consider that they should be viewed in isolation. 
If such an assessment and warning had been shared with Mrs M it is more likely (than not) 
that would have been done in the context of her IHT mitigation objective. In other words, 
information and/or advice about potential CGT liability would probably have been presented 
for her consideration alongside the potential IHT savings the recommendation could achieve. 
The question to her would probably have been whether (or not) it was worth incurring a CGT 
liability for the prospective benefit of the IHT savings after seven years.The same question applies in terms of determining suitability of FBFS recommendation. I 
agree with Mrs Ms representative that the CGT liability was/is a notable cost to her, but I am 
also mindful that unrealised gains existed in the bonds and that CGT would have applied if 
those gains continued (or increased) whenever she chose to liquidate them. In addition, I am 
mindful that the liquidation happened because the bond providers did not permit the initial 
idea of assigning the two bonds.
Beyond the above points, available evidence is that the bond liquidations-substitute/new 
bond investment-assignment of new bond plan was aimed at avoiding a potential IHT liability 
of around £80,000 if nothing was done and if the two bonds remained/formed a part of     
Mrs Ms estate upon her passing. With assignment of the new bond, there was a prospect of 
achieving this aim after seven years. If she needed the bond at any point in the interim, the 
recommendation explained that it could revert to her. It is also FBFS evidence that the new 
bond was slightly cheaper - which appears to have been the case.
I acknowledge that the plan was inherently prospective, and I have avoided any 
considerations with the benefit of hindsight  that is, with the benefit of knowing that Mrs M 
has lived through the years since 2016. FBFS says she was of relatively good health at the 
time of the recommendation, and its argument in this respect seems to be that this made it 
safe to recommend such a prospective plan. However, I consider that her representative 
could counter argue that she was also in her late 80s at the time of the recommendation and 
this could arguably call such a seven years-based plan into question. 
Overall, my attention is drawn to her overriding objective to ensure the bonds eventually 
reached the beneficiaries. She needed FBFS help to achieve this in a tax efficient way but, 
at the time, her options were somewhat limited. Recommending use of the seven years 
assignment strategy and the alternative of a trust were reasonable in the circumstances. 
FBFS had to address the matter as it was at the time and, on balance, I do not consider that 
either of these approaches were unsuitable. If the assignment recommendation is to be 
criticised for being uncertain, I do not consider there were any meaningful and certain 
comparable alternatives. A trust arrangement, depending on which, could have faced the 
same seven years waiting period prior to achieving mitigation of IHT. 
On balance, in the context of an arguably unavoidable waiting period and in the context of 
incurring CGT of around £25,000 for the sake of saving IHT of around £80,000 I do consider 
FBFS recommendation to have been unsuitable. I acknowledge that it did not factor the 
CGT liability into its considerations  because it says the tax calculation it conducted 
suggested there was no such liability  but this finding remains relevant to determining 
suitability of its advice. Had it recommended the aforementioned plan and advised about the 
potential CGT liability against the potential IHT saving, I am persuaded that the 
recommendation would not have been unsuitable  and was not unsuitable for Mrs M. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman