DRN-3709327
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA declined a claim they made under 
a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H were covered by a travel insurance policy through a bank account. The 
insurer was Inter Partner. Mr and Mrs H were due to go on a cruise in March 2022, but this 
was cancelled by the organiser as the company went into administration.
Mr and Mrs H received refunds for everything except their flights, so they made a claim for 
these costs to Inter Partner. It declined the claim as it said the reason for cancellation 
wasnt an insured event under the policy terms and conditions. Unhappy with this, Mr and 
Mrs H brought a complaint to our service. They say the relevant policy terms are 
ambiguous, so these should be interpreted in their favour.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. She said that the claim wasnt 
covered under the policy terms Mr and Mrs H held with Inter Partner, and she didnt think 
the terms were ambiguous. So, she didnt think Inter Partner had done anything wrong in 
declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers 
must handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these 
rules, relevant law (including The Consumer Rights Act 2015), and other industry 
guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
The relevant terms in Mr and Mrs Hs policy with Inter Partner are in Section C. 
Cancellation or Curtailment Charges. This is the section Inter Partner considered the claim 
under, and Mr and Mrs H say are ambiguous. These say the following:
What IS Covered
We will pay you, up to the amount shown in the Benefit Schedule, for any irrecoverable 
unused travel and accommodation costs and other prepaid charges which you have paid 
or are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred 
if:
a) cancellation of your trip is necessary and unavoidable, or
b)your trip is curtailed before completion
as a result of any of the following changes in circumstances, which is beyond your 
control, and of which you were unaware at the time you booked your trip:
1. Unforeseen illness, injury or death of you, a close relative, a close business 
associate or any person with whom you are travelling or staying during your 
trip.
2. Compulsory quarantine, jury service attendance or being called as a witness at a 
Court of Law (other than in an advisory capacity) of you or any person with whom 
you are travelling or have arranged to travel with.
3. Redundancy (which qualifies for payment under the current redundancy payment 
legislation in the United Kingdom and at the time of booking your trip there was 
no reason to believe anyone would be made redundant) of you or any person with 
whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with.
4. The withdrawal of leave for members of the Armed Forces, Police, Fire, Nursing 
or Ambulance Services or employees of a Government Department, provided 
that such cancellation or curtailment could not reasonable have been expected 
at the time of receiving these benefits or booking your trip (whichever is later).
5. The Police requesting you to remain at or subsequently return to your home 
due to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, 
flood, subsidence, malicious persons or theft.
6.You having your passport or visa stolen in a burglary within 7 days of your 
scheduled departure date and you cannot obtain a replacement in time.
7.Your pet dog or cat requiring life-saving treatment within 7 days of your scheduled 
departure date.
Mr and Mrs H say the above terms arent clear. In short, they say their claim should be 
covered under a) cancellation of your trip is necessary and unavoidable, as the points 1 
to 7 only refer to the circumstances where theres cover under b) your trip is curtailed 
before completion. In other words, they say that a) is a standalone statement, and the 
policy wording is grammatically ambiguous.
But I dont agree with Mr and Mrs H. I dont think the terms are ambiguous; I think the 
above terms set out clearly that points 1 to 7 refer to both points a) and b). And the reason 
Mr and Mrs Hs trip was cancelled isnt listed as an insured event above in points 1 to 7. 
That means that I dont think Inter Partner acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining their 
claim.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, but I dont think Inter Partner has done anything 
wrong here. So, I wont be asking it to take any action. The circumstances Mr and Mrs H 
found themselves in simply isnt covered by the terms of the policy with Inter Partner.
For completeness, I note that Section Q of the policy provides cover in the event of 
insolvency of the travel provider, subject to the terms and conditions. But this section is 
underwritten by a different insurer. If Mr and Mrs H think their claim could be covered 
under this section, they can approach the other insurer in the first instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about Inter 
Partner Assistance SA.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before .
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman