DRN-3087794
The complaint
Mrs W complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have unfairly turned down a 
claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision, setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive set out the relevant sections below, and these form part of my final decision.
In July 2020 Mrs W had to take her dog to the vets for an ear issue  which was seemingly 
caused by allergies. She submitted a claim to RSA, but it was turned down because they 
said it was linked to a previous condition in 2016. RSA said there was a 12-month limit for 
claiming for the same issue, so thatd expired when the claim was submitted.
Mrs W got in touch with her vet who wrote to RSA saying, Diagnosis seasonal allergy and 
unrelated to previous ear infections. And, when RSA still wouldnt meet her claim, Mrs W 
complained to them.
RSA said her policy covered each condition / illness for a maximum of 12 months. They said 
the first treatment was 17 March 2016, so the cover expired 12 months later. RSA added 
theyd contacted Mrs Ws vets asking for an explanation of why this illness was different to 
the previous illnesses, but said theyd not received an answer. So, they couldnt consider this 
further without any new evidence.
Unhappy with this Mrs W asked us to look into things saying she wasnt sure why RSA had 
said they tried to get hold of her vets when theyd already confirmed it wasnt linked to 
previous illnesses. 
Whatd actually happened is that RSA asked for confirmation they werent linked, the vets 
provided the one line Ive mentioned above, and RSA asked for further clarification. The 
vets said theyd already confirmed it wasnt linked and couldnt provide anything further.
One of our investigators considered everything. He said the condition diagnosed in 2016 
was otitis and one of the main causes of this is allergies. He didnt find the vets one line 
explanation persuasive, as it lacked detail. But he said there wasnt enough evidence to 
show the previous ear infections were caused by allergies  as itd not been mentioned in 12 
previous visits. He said the first mention was 18 October 2019, so felt it reasonable to start 
the 12-month period then. Thatd mean this claim is covered, so he felt RSA should pay it 
minus any excesses applicable.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for Mrs Ws case is to consider what the policy terms that RSA have relied 
on say. Ive quoted them below:
Treatment periods
Accident & Injury or Standard cover
We pay vet fees for 12 months from the first date of treatment or until your vet fee limit 
shown on your policy schedule is used up, whichever happens first.
Once that has happened you will no longer have cover for that injury or illness. Your vet fees 
limit can be used for treatment your pet needs for new health issues.
If your vet gives advice but carries out no treatment, the 12 months period doesnt start.
So, the key question in this case is whether the condition claimed for now, did appear, and 
was first treated, more than 12 months ago.
The entry recorded by Mrs Ws vets at the time in 2016 says:
LEFT ear  v inflamed pinna & vertical cana; purulent discharge
Swab taken
I dont think RSA have acted unfairly in asking questions about this  as the condition 
subsequently diagnosed is linked to allergies  which is the condition being claimed for in 
July 2020.
So, RSA did as Id expect which is to ask the vets for an explanation. They replied to simply 
say theyre not linked. I know Mrs W doesnt understand why RSA asked for clarification  
but I think they did this because, importantly, the vet doesnt explain why the two conditions 
arent linked.
At face value, Mrs Ws dog was diagnosed with, and treated for, a condition in 2016 where 
one of the main causes is allergies  and shes now claiming for allergies in July 2020. So, I 
think RSA arent acting unreasonably in expecting a more detailed explanation to help them 
understand why the two conditions arent linked. Particularly as RSA have provided a 
substantial amount of information on why they think the conditions are linked from their own 
vet experts  pulling out examples from Mrs Ws dogs clinical history in 2016, 2017, 2018 
and 2019 suggesting possible allergy related issues.
With that in mind, I wanted Mrs Ws vets to see all the information from RSAs vets and ask 
them to explain in more detail why the conditions werent linked. Mrs W has told us she 
passed that information over to them  but theyve not replied by the deadline set.
Given that, I dont find the one-line explanation from Mrs Ws vets persuasive enough to 
say, based on that alone, theyre not linked conditions.
Ive also noted what our investigator said about there not being enough evidence between 
2016 and 2020 to say they were linked. I can see where hes coming from, but in the 
absence of additional detailed explanations from Mrs Ws vets Im more persuaded by 
RSAs evidence which says they likely are linked. 
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs W  but I dont currently plan to uphold 
this complaint.
If Mrs Ws vets are able to provide further information before I issue my final decision, then 
Ill be able to take that into account. But overall, Im satisfied theyve been given enough opportunities to provide more detail to explain why the conditions arent linked to reach this 
outcome. If further information is provided after I issue my final decision, then I wont be able 
to take it into account.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs W replied and said she received the provisional decision and had nothing to add. She 
said it seems like her vet isnt co-operating, even though she knows they must be very busy.
RSA replied and said they had nothing to add either.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ws vets were asked for clarification by RSA before they issued their outcome. I 
arranged for us to ask as well before I issued my provisional decision, and theyve had the 
additional time since I issued it.
As they, along with Mrs W and RSA, have provided no further information, Ive seen no 
reason to change the outcome Ive reached. Im persuaded by the evidence from RSAs vet 
experts that the condition Mrs W claimed for is linked to the 2016 condition. With that in 
mind, I wont be requiring them to meet Mrs Ws claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman