DRN-3305346
The complaint
Mr W is complaining about Lloyds Bank PLC closing his accounts with them. He says 
this has severely impacted his financial position and his health.
What happened
Mr W held his current account with Lloyds. He also had two savings accounts with 
them. Hed been a customer of Lloyds for over ten years.
Mr W has some medical conditions which affect his behaviour. He explained to Lloyds 
he had autism and mental health conditions which can lead to aggression or abusive 
and threatening behaviour. Mr W asked Lloyds not to call him before 11am due to his 
epilepsy. He said this would give him time to take his medication.
At around 9am on 7 July 2020 Lloyds automated fraud system called Mr W. Mr W 
was briefly connected to an adviser but was then cut off.
Shortly afterwards Mr W called Lloyds to complain. During the call he was very upset. He 
said the early morning call had triggered an epileptic seizure. He explained hed told 
Lloyds repeatedly not to call him before 11am as this could kill him. At one point in the call 
he made a threat to kill the adviser he had spoken to in the previous call.
After this call, Lloyds reviewed their relationship with Mr W. They felt his behaviour during 
the call was unacceptable. They made the decision to close his accounts with them. On 
10 July 2020 they wrote to him giving 60 days notice. They closed his accounts around 
the end of September 2020.
Mr W brought a complaint to us. He explained that Lloyds closing his accounts had a 
significant impact on him, because he was unable to easily open another account due to 
his medical conditions. He thinks Lloyds have discriminated against him because hes 
disabled. Mr W told us hed been able to open a new bank account in May 2021.
An investigator looked at Mr Ws complaint. She didnt think Lloyds had acted fairly 
when they closed Mr Ws accounts. After looking into the effect this had on Mr W, she 
asked
Lloyds to pay Mr W £3,000 in compensation.
Lloyds agreed with our investigators view. But Mr W didnt agree. He feels compensation 
in the region of £8,000 would be fair, considering the significant impact this has had on 
his life.
Mr Ws complaint was passed to me for review and a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 13 January 2022. This is what I said.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr W, but Ive provisionally decided 
the compensation of £3,000 recommended by the investigator is fair and reasonable. Ill 
explain why.
Ive listened to the call between Lloyds adviser and Mr W during which the threat was 
made. Mr W was aggressive in his tone, but he made it clear this wasnt aimed at the 
adviser he was speaking to at that time. And I think the adviser could have shown more 
empathy and understanding of Mr Ws conditions and the reason for his call. I think this 
contributed to Mr Ws state of mind which led to the threat being made against her 
colleague.
Mr W had asked for reasonable adjustments from Lloyds which werent followed on this 
occasion. Hes explained why the consequences of them not following these could have a 
serious impact on his health. And hes also explained that his behaviour was likely to be 
aggressive if these werent followed. So overall I think its understandable he reacted the 
way he did to receiving the call. I understand that the call was automated, but I dont think 
its unreasonable for Lloyds to incorporate any reasonable adjustments needed by their 
customers for health grounds into their automated system.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws accounts allow Lloyds to close them if a consumer is 
behaving in a threatening and abusive way. And its quite right that threats against 
members of staff should be taken very seriously. But given what Lloyds knew about Mr 
Ws medical conditions, on this occasion I dont think their decision to close Mr Ws 
accounts was fair, because it didnt make enough allowance for the impact not following 
the reasonable adjustments had on Mr Ws health and behaviour.
Mr W has epilepsy and learning difficulties which make reading difficult. Hes said he 
didnt receive Lloyds letter about his accounts being closed. So he didnt know that he 
needed to make other banking arrangements. He spoke to Lloyds over the phone after 
the letter was sent about opening a credit card, so I think its unlikely he was aware his 
accounts were about to be closed. And given what Lloyds knew about Mr Ws disabilities, 
I think they could have done more to explain to Mr W that theyd taken the decision to 
close his accounts during his conversations with them. This may have limited the impact 
their decision had on Mr W.
Mr Ws explained the way his accounts being closed has impacted him. Ive summarised 
the main points hes raised about the impact below.
I want to reassure Mr W that Ive considered everything hes told us and all the 
information hes given to us, even if I havent referred to it specifically in my summary.
He had difficulty opening a new account as he didnt have the required 
identification and couldnt afford to replace it. Its more difficult for him to open a 
new account as he struggles to travel to branches or use technology due to his 
epilepsy. He wasnt able to
open a new account for around seven months. During this time he contacted us a 
number of times to explain that he was struggling to access money to buy food and 
other basic necessities such as hygiene products.
He was left with no account for his benefits to be paid into, so he arranged for 
these to be paid into his friends account, and then his partners. But he had 
difficulty reliably accessing the money as his friend wasnt always in contact and 
his partners account was closed down.His difficulties affording food affected his recovery from an eating disorder, and he 
had to rely on handouts and charities for food. He was put on nutritional 
supplements by his doctor which have adversely affected his health.
He was unable to pay his utility bills and has been left with significant debt to the 
utility companies.
He couldnt afford to look after his dog properly and was worried his dog 
would be permanently removed from his care and hed be prosecuted for 
cruelty.
His health has deteriorated and due to the stress hes suffered hes currently 
lost the sight in one eye and mobility on his left hand side.
He had a number of insurance policies which were cancelled when the direct 
debits werent paid. Mr W says that because of this he has lost the opportunity to 
claim a substantial lump sum on his policies when he lost his sight in one eye, 
and that he was unable to replace his games console which has broken since his 
appliance cover was cancelled.
I have considered everything Mr Ws said and provided in order to decide on fair 
compensation. Im sure the difficulties accessing his benefits caused great distress to 
Mr W. I was very sorry to learn of the struggle he had to buy food and basic 
necessities, and of his concerns for his dog  and also of the health problems hes 
been experiencing.
Mr Ws said he now owes a significant debt to the utility companies but these are 
services he would have needed to pay for anyway, so I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Lloyds to meet the cost of these bills. Weve been able to contact his water company 
and theyve explained they havent applied any charges to his account. Mr Ws other 
utility supplier hasnt given us any information about his account, but if they have added 
charges I would suggest to Mr W that he speaks to them directly about this to explain 
whats happened. And if Mr W can send us any evidence he has that hes been charged 
by his utility supplier Ill consider this.
Mr Ws also said hes lost the sight in one of his eyes and hed have been able to make 
a substantial claim for this on one of the policies he had, if it hadnt been cancelled 
when his direct debits werent paid when his account was closed. He said he isnt sure 
who this policy was with, but he remembers it would provide around £25,000 for loss of 
sight.
Ive looked at the insurance policies Mr W had in place at the time his accounts were 
closed. From the list of direct debits he had in place, it looks like he had a policy which 
wouldve paid a lump sum if he passed away, and a funeral care policy which hed taken 
out shortly before the accounts were closed. I dont think either of these policies 
wouldve provided the benefit hes referring to.
It also looks like Mr W had an active policy with another insurer at the time his 
accounts were closed which he thought could have offered the cover hes referred to. 
Weve now asked the insurer if they can give us more details about this policy and 
theyve told us thatthis policy was an over 50s life insurance policy which wouldve paid a lump sum if he 
passed away. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of this policy and it didnt include 
cover for loss of sight.
Ive thought about what Mr Ws said about being unable to claim for loss of sight very 
carefully. But I must bear in mind that we dont have any documents to show Mr W had a 
policy in place which would have paid him the benefit hes described, or that a claim would 
have been likely to succeed. So from what Ive seen so far I dont think it would fair to ask 
Lloyds to meet the value of any potential claim Mr W says he could have brought for the 
loss of his sight.
Mr Ws provided medical evidence from his doctor. The medical evidence doesnt directly 
link the deterioration in his health to the closure of his accounts, but it does say his 
seizures may be linked to stress. So I understand that the stress involved may have 
contributed to the problems hes been having with his health, and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding whats fair and reasonable compensation.
Ive also taken into account that weve spoken to Mr Ws policy providers and theyve said 
the policies that were cancelled cant be reinstated, and if Mr W takes out new policies it 
may be more expensive for him.
Mr W also says he had policies in place to cover his appliances if they broke down. Some 
of these policies had lapsed by the time the accounts were closed, but it looks like Mr W 
did have active policies for his television, his tumble dryer and his television package 
(including his games console) at the time his accounts were closed. He has mentioned 
that his games console has broken but he was unable to replace it. Ive taken this into 
account too.
I can see that the closure of Mr Ws accounts has had a significant effect on him, in 
many different ways. And I know that Mr W feels strongly that we should be awarding a 
higher amount. But in deciding whats fair and reasonable I must take into account our 
general approach to compensation, and awards made in similar circumstances to Mr 
Ws.
This doesnt mean I dont appreciate the impact this has had on Mr W. I have no doubt 
this was a terrible time for him. But I think £3,000 is fair, and recognises the sustained 
distress this has caused Mr W.
Lloyds have told us that when they closed Mr Ws account, there was a small balance of
£5.46. They sent a cheque for this to Mr W, but its not yet been cashed. Lloyds have 
now offered to pay this directly to Mr W with the compensation.
I understand that Mr W thinks Lloyds have discriminated against him because hes 
disabled. As the investigators explained, its our role to decide complaints based on 
whats fair and reasonable. The Equality Act 2010 is relevant law here, which Ive taken 
into account in deciding that Lloyds havent treated Mr W fairly. But whether or not Lloyds 
have breached the Equality Act would be for a court to decide.
My provisional decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr W £3,000 in compensation.
They should also pay an additional £5.46 which is the balance owing to Mr W from when 
his accounts were closed.Lloyds replied to say they accepted my provisional decision.
Mr W said he didnt think £3,000 was enough compensation. 
He said, in summary, his debts to the utility companies were around £3,500. So he thinks 
Lloyds should pay at least this amount, with additional compensation for his distress. He 
thinks around £8,000 would be fair.
He also said he had a policy which would have paid out between £15,000 and £30,000 and 
he thinks Lloyds should be able to give the information about this policy so he can prove it 
would have paid out. 
He doesnt think Ive taken his disabilities into account, and hes also mentioned that his 
credit ratings been affected as hes been unable to pay his bills.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr W now has debts to the utility companies and I appreciate that his credit 
rating may be affected by this. But as Ive explained in my provisional decision, although 
Lloyds actions made it more difficult for him to arrange to pay these bills during the time he 
didnt have a bank account, I dont think their actions directly caused his debt, because these 
are bills Mr W would have needed to pay anyway. 
Ive explained in my provisional decision that weve contacted the insurers Mr W was making 
payments to from his bank account at the time his account was closed, and weve not found 
anything to show there was a policy in place which would provide the benefit hes referred to. 
So Ive not changed my decision that it wouldnt be fair to ask Lloyds to meet the value of 
any potential claim.
I know Mr W feels strongly about his complaint. And I dont wish to minimise the impact this 
has had on him. But when I make an award, it must be fair and reasonable, taking into 
account our general approach to compensation, and awards made in similar circumstances. 
Overall, Im satisfied that £3,000 is fair, and recognises the impact Lloyds actions have had 
on Mr W. Although Im sorry to disappoint him, Im not going to ask Lloyds to pay the higher 
amount hes asked for.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint, for the reasons Ive explained above 
and in my provisional decision.
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr W £3,000 in compensation.
They should also pay an additional £5.46 which is the balance owing to Mr W from when 
his accounts were closed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Helen SutcliffeOmbudsman