DRN-1621728
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 2004, Mr and Mrs O took out a re-financing loan for £4,000 in a branch meeting. At the 
same time, they were sold a regular premium PPI policy to protect the repayments on this 
loan. It covered Mr O for up to twelve months if he became unemployed and for the agreed 
life of the loan if he was unable to work because of an accident or sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs O disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Os case. Having done so, Ive decided 
not to uphold the complaint for reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr and Mrs O say that they were pressurised into taking the PPI policy, being led to believe 
that it was a condition of getting their loan and not told that it was optional. 
Ive no doubt that this is Mr and Mrs Os recollection of what happened at the time. But I 
need to bear in mind that this all took place a long time ago and memories do tend to fade 
over such lengthy periods of time. So I dont think it would be fair for me to rely solely on 
what Mr and Mrs O think was said to them to decide that the policy was mis-sold. I need to 
look at all the available information to decide what I think is most likely to have happened.
BoS has also provided a copy of the loan application form which Mr and Mrs O signed. And I 
can see that in the section dealing with PPI on this form Mr O has signed in the box provided 
to confirm he wanted this cover. Theres an equally prominent box that could have been 
signed if Mr and Mrs O hadnt wanted the cover. And BoS has provided a copy of the loan 
agreement which Mr and Mrs O signed. This also has a section on it dealing with PPI. And I 
can see that a pre-printed cross has been placed in a Yes box next to the question: Do 
you want Personal loan Repayments Insurance?. 
From what I know about BoS normal sales process, I think its most likely that PPI was 
discussed with them. I think the cross would then have been entered on the loan application 
system after Mr and Mrs O had agreed to take out the policy. If Mr and Mrs O hadnt agreed 
to the PPI, I think they would have queried why a cross had been placed in this box before 
signing the agreement. I accept that its possible that the salesperson they spoke to wrongly 
misled them into thinking they had to take the PPI policy to get their loan. However, on balance, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs O actively agreed to the PPI knowing they 
could choose not to take it. But I can understand why Mr and Mrs O might not remember this 
now.
Both Mr and Mrs O and BoS say this was an advised sale, so Ive taken this to be the case. 
This means BoS had to check whether it was suitable for their needs. I dont know how BoS 
did this. But from what I know of their circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why 
it wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
 
Mr O appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
 
 Mr O says he was entitled to full sick pay from his employer for six months and some 
redundancy compensation. Mr and Mrs O also say they could have relied on their 
family for support in need. So they dont think they needed the cover the policy gave 
them. But this policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Os employee benefits 
and, potentially, for longer than these would have lasted. And I think it would have 
provided more security than having to rely on their family for support in need. So I still 
think that Mr and Mrs O would have valued the cover which the policy gave them.
 
The cost of the policy was £11.30 a month. And although this was a re-financing 
loan, I havent seen anything to make me think that this cost would have been 
unaffordable for Mr and Mrs O. And as the premiums were paid monthly, it could 
have been cancelled by them if it no longer met their needs.
 
BoS also needed to give Mr and Mrs O enough information for them to decide if they wanted 
to buy the policy. I think its quite possibly the case that the information which BoS gave to 
Mr and Mrs O could have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont 
think the policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs O, I dont think better information about the 
policy would have changed their minds about buying it. I think theyd still have thought it 
gave them useful cover at an affordable cost.
Ive carefully considered the reasons Mr and Mrs O have given for disagreeing with our 
adjudicators view. But Im afraid these havent changed my mind about not upholding their 
complaint. 
So, taking everything into account, I dont think Mr and Mrs O have lost out by anything that 
BoS may have done wrong when it sold them this PPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman