DRN-2696095
The complaint
Mr M brings the complaint on behalf of the estate of his late father. Mr M says Scottish 
Widows Limited has acted unfairly when refusing to release a life assurance payment 
without requiring a UK Grant of Probate. Mr M says that as the investment bond was sold to 
his father under a Channel Islands seal, asking for UK Probate was unnecessary. 
To resolve his complaint, Mr M sought the immediate release of the funds with adjustment 
for the time taken to pay them, along with compensation for the upset he has been caused, 
the time he has spent in corresponding with Scottish Widows and his legal fees. 
What happened
Mr Ms father took out a Flexible Options Bond through an independent financial adviser in 
June 2006. The bond provided life cover at 101% of the value of the units held at the time of 
any such claim. Mr Ms father lived in one of the Channel Islands, and Mr M explains he had 
never been a formal resident of the UK during his lifetime. 
Sadly, Mr Ms father passed away in March 2020. With the assistance of his fathers IFA, Mr 
M sought to make claims under various policies held with different businesses including a 
claim to Scottish Widows for life assurance benefit under the bond. 
Following his dealings with Scottish Widows in respect of the policy, Mr M complained. He 
said that the IFA had needed to chase Scottish Widows five times before any settlement 
figure was provided. Further, he said that it had mixed up his details with that of the IFA, 
which caused him upset. It had then sent him two conflicting settlement figures of 
£357,214.73 on 27 April 2020 and £339,560.85 on 28 April 2020.  
In May 2020, Probate was granted from the specific Channel Island and supplied to Scottish 
Widows. However, in June 2020, it told the IFA that Probate had to be registered in the UK 
in order to pay the proceeds of the investment to Mr M. The IFA also complained.   
Mr M therefore lodged additional complaint points with Scottish Widows. Scottish Widows 
responded to the initial complaint in July 2020. It upheld it, noting it had delayed matters 
unreasonably because of the impact on its resources following the outbreak of Covid-19. It 
recognised Mr M had suffered avoidable delays and awarded him £150 for that. It also paid 
a further £50 to represent the delay in providing the correct settlement value, which was the 
second, lower sum.    
In the interim, Scottish Widows also wrote to the IFA regarding his complaint. It did not 
uphold it. Scottish Widows reiterated that it had caused unacceptable delays but it had 
compensated Mr M for those. In respect of the Grant of Probate, it said it would not progress 
the claim until it received acceptable documentation  which was a UK Grant of Probate. 
Scottish Widows explained that its bereavement team confirmed as the policy was UK 
based, that necessitated a UK court to access the estate and grant confirmation to the 
appropriate executor. It said it took the view that this was a legal requirement. 
Mr M again addressed the matter with Scottish Widows. He said the Channel Island where 
his father had lived was a crown dependency and he had never been UK domiciled. Further, 
his fathers original policy had been set up under seal for that Channel Island. Three other 
businesses who were also based in the UK had set up policies similarly for Mr Ms father and 
these had all now settled his claims promptly and efficiently.   
Further, he pointed to his fathers policy paperwork which he said clearly pertains to the fact 
that his father was a non-UK resident  therefore the policy would be treated differently and 
not as a UK asset. He asserted that it couldnt be a legal requirement, or three other 
businesses would not have paid proceeds of similar policies to his fathers estate. He said 
that he believed he couldnt apply for UK Probate as his father had never lived in the UK.   
After several further emails from Mr M and the IFA, Scottish Widows issued a further final 
response to Mr Ms complaint in August 2020. It said it had already issued the same reply to 
the IFA the previous month. And it recognised that it should have issued the same letter for 
Mr M at that time, so it paid Mr M a further £100 in recognition of that error and the further 
delay caused.  
However, Scottish Widows remained of the same view that it could not pay the claim to Mr M 
on behalf of his late fathers estate without satisfactory documentation  that being a UK 
Grant of Probate.     
Mr M therefore lodged the matter with this service. An investigator firstly reviewed whether 
the complaint was one this service could consider. She said that without a UK Grant of 
Probate, the complaint could not progress further. 
Mr M asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. He said his father had no assets 
in England & Wales or the UK. The policy was kept outside the UK and all the other 
requirements within the policy terms had been met.
The IFA continued to correspond with Scottish Widows directly. He received advice from a 
different Scottish Widows servicing department which said if the policy was written under 
seal in the Channel Islands and the policyholder was domiciled there, then if an original 
sealed grant of probate was issued from that Channel Island and legalised appropriately, a 
claim could be paid. That department then agreed to pay the claim in December 2020.  
Mr M also confirmed he had sought legal advice in the interim, following which he obtained a 
UK Grant of Probate for the value of the claim payment in January 2021. This meant he had 
incurred further cost for the advice, and he believed Scottish Widows ought to reimburse that 
as it had now agreed to pay the claim in any event. 
Scottish Widows said that whilst the servicing department had issued a different reply, it had 
acted independently and that it had actually still required a UK Grant of Probate because the 
policy itself was held under UK law.  
Since the UK Grant of Probate was issued, an investigator looked into the merits of the 
complaint. She said that even though the policy was sealed in one of the Channel Islands, it 
is still subject to the law in England and Wales and Scottish Widows wasnt unreasonable in 
requiring UK Probate.  
Whilst she recognised other businesses had acted differently, she felt it was not 
unreasonable for businesses to have individual procedures and policies in place  and that 
this service wasnt able to interfere in those providing they were reasonably exercised.  
Our investigator did note that Scottish Widows had prolonged and confused matters for Mr M and that it issued mixed communications to him. But she wasnt able to award compensation 
for that or the sort of payment Mr M was seeking for distress. That is because he was not an 
eligible complainant in his own right and awards for inconvenience or upset could only be 
made to eligible complainants.  
Mr M asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. He said that if Scottish Widows 
chose to release the funds without UK Probate, this must be because it was not required. He 
also did not understand why Scottish Widows would direct him to this service if the 
representative of an estate could not be awarded compensation for upset, inconvenience or 
associated costs in relation to its mistakes.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Id also like to pass my condolences to Mr M and his family. Having reviewed all of 
the information carefully, I am unable to uphold this complaint. Ill summarise my reasons for 
that below.  
Mr M rightly points out that the policy was written under seal in one of the Channel Islands 
where his father resided throughout his life. He also has referred to a statement issued 
alongside his fathers bond relating to non-UK residents and taxation. 
That statement sets out in clear terms that provided a) Mr Ms father kept the policy in force 
until his death b) he was not domiciled in the UK at the time of his death and c) the policy 
document was outside of the UK at the time of his death, the proceeds will not be liable to 
UK inheritance tax. Those conditions were met and it was this statement that both Mr M and 
the IFA believed showed that the claim payment ought to be made to the estate of Mr Ms 
father without further delay.  
However, the policy schedule and provisions go further. Firstly, the schedule confirms the 
law of the contract is that of England and Wales. And the policy schedule says:
        13.2 Payment of benefits
We will pay benefits only if we receive such proof as we may reasonably require of 
the happening of the event on which, or the continuation of the circumstances under 
which, the benefits are payable, of the legal entitlement of the claimant, and of the 
date of birth of any person on whose life the benefits depend.
Scottish Widows has clarified that whilst UK Probate is not required for inheritance tax 
purposes, the policy provisions in respect of legal entitlement of the claimant -that being Mr 
M on behalf of the estate of his late father- must be satisfied. 
It says that UK Probate (though this is in fact a Grant of Probate issued from the High Court 
of Justice for England and Wales) grants the administration of the policyholders estate to a 
representative  in this case, Mr M. That is true, and the Grant of Probate Mr M has obtained 
confirms as such. Scottish Widows says it requires this because the law of the contract is 
governed by the jurisdiction of courts in England and Wales. 
What that means is UK Probate is still required by Scottish Widows in this circumstance 
because that documentation proves that the executor has the right to the policy proceeds 
under the law of England and Wales. Scottish Widows says this is necessary because if it paid a claim without that evidence and a 
new claimant then presented a UK (England and Wales) Probate to it at a later date, it could 
possibly end up liable for a second claim. Therefore, though the policy was under seal in the 
specific Channel Island where Mr Ms father lived, it is still subject to English and Welsh 
jurisdiction. 
Given the explanation of the differential basis of the tax liability and the law of the contract 
itself between Mr Ms father and Scottish Widows, I do not consider that Scottish Widows 
has acted unfairly by requiring the additional UK (England and Wales) Grant of Probate. It is 
entitled under the terms of the policy provisions to establish the legal entitlement of Mr M as 
a claimant on behalf of the estate of his late father.  
Like our investigator, I believe that the multiple lines of communication between Mr M, the 
IFA and a number of Scottish Widows departments and the early settlement of the claim 
without the required evidence to satisfy the contractual terms has made this matter 
particularly difficult, prolonged and upsetting for Mr M. I can see that Mr M feels that the 
£100 he has been paid to date is woefully inadequate for the time and confusion he feels 
Scottish Widows has caused.  
I accept that, but I cannot make any further award for upset, distress or inconvenience 
caused to Mr M. Firstly, the associated cost of the England and Wales Grant of Probate is a 
separate financial loss; I would not be able to propose this is repaid to Mr M in any event, 
given the requirement for it is justified within the bonds terms and conditions. 
Though this service can, and does make further modest awards for the distress a business 
has caused in relation to a complaint, those awards must be made to an eligible 
complainant. I understand our investigator has directed Mr M to the Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) rules which apply to this service as set out in the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook. 
Those rules require that awards are made to an eligible complainant. And whilst a complaint 
can be made to this service by a representative on behalf of the eligible complainant (or the 
estate of a complainant that has passed away), that does not confer the right to receive a 
money award to the representative. 
As an aside, I know Mr M also felt that the delay unfairly influenced the valuation of the life 
cover payable to the estate under the terms of his fathers bond  but that would not have 
changed matters in terms of the final value of the life assurance claim. The policy terms (at 
section 9) make clear that the amount of death benefit (equal to the value of all units 
allocated to the policy, increased by 1% of that value) will be valued at the appropriate bid 
prices as at the date the cash sum becomes payable. That date is the date on which 
Scottish Widows receives written notification of the death of the life assured.   
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr Ms position, I am unable to uphold this complaint or make any 
award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman