DRN-2609029
The complaint
Mr H complains about the information JAJA FINANCE LTD has reported to the Credit 
Reference Agencies about his account and about the information it holds about him.
What happened
Mr H held an account with a business that was transferred to JAJA which he closed prior to 
that transfer. He says his details were still passed to JAJA which caused him concern and 
says it has registered incorrect information with the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) 
about the account. Mr H says that incorrect information has affected his credit score which 
has impacted on a mortgage application. He would like compensation of about £1,000 and 
the incorrect information amended. He would also like JAJA to provide information about the 
information it holds about him and his account, and for it to remove any unnecessary data.
JAJA says its obliged to hold information about Mr Hs account even though it was closed 
but accepts it ought to have updated the CRAs sooner. It says it has updated the CRAs and 
offered £100 compensation for the mistake it made.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and in summary our investigator upheld the complaint in 
part. The investigator accepted JAJA had made a mistake and not updated the CRAs when 
it ought to have. She recommended JAJA increase its compensation offer to £150 and 
thought Mr H ought to make a Subject Access Request (SAR) to find out what information 
JAJA held about him and his account. The investigator thought it difficult to assess the 
impact of what took place on the mortgage application if Mr H will not provide evidence of it.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and in summary says the compensation recommended 
doesnt go far enough and doesnt reflect the time hes spent on this complaint. He says 
some of the CRAs are recording incorrect information about the account but says he will not 
provide the mortgage information. Mr H says he has not been given evidence that the CRAs 
have been updated.
JAJA has agreed to pay the compensation of £150.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint in part, but Im 
satisfied the £150 compensation offer is fair and reasonable. I appreciate Mr H will be 
disappointed by my decision and how strongly he feels about what took place.
I dont think JAJA has made a mistake or acted unfairly by keeping a record of Mr Hs 
account even though it was closed. Im satisfied that JAJA is obliged to keep such records 
and as we are not its regulator, then I cant interfere in that issue.
If Mr H is concerned about the information that JAJA holds about him and his account, then I 
think he will need to make the appropriate information request. And if he is concerned about 
the information, will need to make a separate complaint about it. I can see that JAJA hasnt 
looked into such a complaint and so that is not something I can fairly decide upon.
There is no question that JAJA made a mistake about how long it took to make sure an 
accurate account position was reported to the CRAs. I find that ought to have been a 
straightforward matter and shouldnt have taken as long as it did. I accept in those 
circumstances that Mr H was caused distress and inconvenience. But Im satisfied that JAJA 
has fairly accepted it made a mistake and offered what I think is a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount of £150. I dont think Mr H has provided any evidence of a financial 
loss. And whilst I accept he has told us that his mortgage application was adversely affected 
by what took place, I dont think he has provided us with that application result or evidence 
about how the information on his credit file impacted on that application.
Im satisfied having looked at JAJAs records that it has updated the CRAs and can see that 
information is correctly recorded by at least one of the CRA. I appreciate Mr H says one of 
the CRAs has deleted reference to the account, but I cant fairly hold JAJA responsible for 
how a CRA has recorded information. And no doubt Mr H will raise that issue with the CRA 
in question.
Overall, I accept JAJA didnt deal with this issue as it ought to have. But Im satisfied the 
compensation offer is fair and reasonable and I have not seen any evidence about any 
financial loss caused by what took place. 
Putting things right
I intend to order JAJA to pay Mr H £150 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order JAJA FINANCE LTD to pay 
Mr H £150 compensation. Mr Hs acceptance of that offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman