DRN-4237656
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complains that Santander has declined to refund the money they lost in 2017 
and 2018 to what now appears to have been an investment scam. They bring their complaint 
with the assistance of professional representation, but for readability, in what follows I will 
refer predominantly to Mr and Mrs R.
What happened
In 2017, Mr and Mrs R made an initial investment in an unregulated property scheme (that Ill 
refer to as W). They made three subsequent investments to the scheme in January 2018 
and November 2018. All payments were made by cheque from Mr and Mrs Rs joint bank 
accounts held with Santander. These four cheques amounted to a total of just over £37,000.
While Mr and Mrs R received some interest or dividend payments initially, these later halted. 
W has since entered liquidation and Mr and Mrs R have highlighted significant concerns that 
it may have been operating fraudulently.
Mr and Mrs R reported what had happened to Santander in 2022. They complained when 
the bank did not reimburse them. They said Santander had breached a duty of care by 
failing to question them about the cheques and, had Santander done so, it would have come 
to light the investment was not legitimate, and the loss would have been prevented. 
Santander says it is not responsible for the loss. Mr and Mrs R had authorised the cheques. 
It had no reason to block Mr and Mrs Rs cheques or otherwise intervene before they were 
cleared. 
Mr and Mrs R referred the matter to our service. Our Investigator didnt uphold their 
complaint. These payments had been made before the APP scam code (the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model code or CRM Code) had been introduced, and the code doesnt 
apply to cheque payments. That meant the code simply didnt apply to Mr and Mrs Rs 
payments.
While Santander noted a Police investigation into W is ongoing, the Investigator considered 
that the results would not affect the outcome of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about Santander  
that depended on what Santander did or did not do at the time of the payments. 
The Investigator thought Santander might have been at fault for not speaking to Mr and 
Mrs R prior to clearing the cheques. But even had Santander done so the Investigator didnt 
think Santander (or Mr and Mrs R) would have had sufficient grounds to conclude the 
investment was not legitimate, given what it could reasonably have uncovered at the time. 
The Investigator didnt think Santander could have prevented Mr and Mrs Rs loss. 
Mr and Mrs R maintained that had Santander intervened it would have been able to identify 
several concerning aspects of the investment, and therefore should have warned them this 
was a scam. And even without giving Mr and Mrs R financial advice, the bank could 
nevertheless have given them relevant warnings. Had it done so, this would have meant 
they wouldnt have gone ahead with the cheque payments and would have avoided the loss 
they have now sustained.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The starting position in law is that Mr and Mrs R are responsible for transactions theyve 
carried out themselves. Mr and Mrs R dont dispute that at the time, they intended to make 
these cheque payments, albeit in the belief they were investing in a legitimate scheme. 
Santanders primary duty here was to process their instructions without delay.
However, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id expect Santander to 
have been on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions, as well as other 
indications that its customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud or scam.
I consider it to be appropriate for a customers previous account activity, among other 
factors, to be taken into account when deciding whether a cheque payment does, or does 
not, present a sufficiently heightened risk that it would justify an intervention before the 
cheque is cleared.
Here, Santander did not intervene. Given the relatively lower value of the first cheque and 
the low velocity of the subsequent cheques, arguably it did not need to. The pattern would 
not obviously have indicated fraud.
But even if I were to accept that Santander ought to have intervened here and spoken to 
Mr and Mrs R about one or more of these payments prior to processing them, I consider it 
unlikely this would have prevented their loss. While there are now significant concerns about 
the legitimacy of Ws business, these first began to surface in the period surrounding Ws 
liquidation, and some years after Mr and Mrs Rs four cheque payments.
I cannot rely on the benefit of hindsight  I must consider what Santander could reasonably 
have established in the course of proportionate enquiry to Mr and Mrs R about their cheques 
back in 2017 or 2018.
And with that in mind, I dont think it wouldve been apparent at the time that W was likely 
fraudulent rather than simply a risky investment. Im not persuaded sufficient information was 
readily and publicly available at the time which would have caused Santander (or Mr and 
Mrs R) to have specific concerns about this. 
Mr and Mrs R have provided copies of investment literature I understand they received at the 
time. This appears professional and not obviously anything other than legitimate. It gave an 
explanation of the risks involved, recommended investors should seek independent financial 
advice prior to making an investment decision and indicated that the financial promotion had 
been approved by an FCA regulated firm. On the face of it, I dont think there was enough 
here for Santander to have reasonably suspected W was other than it seemed  even if had 
insisted on seeing the material, which I do not think it saw at the timeIt is possible of course that the investment might have represented a greater degree of risk 
than was suitable for Mr and Mrs R to take. But Santander didnt have any obligation to step 
in to protect its customers from potentially risky investments. Taking steps to assess 
suitability without an explicit request from Mr and Mrs R (which there was not) would have 
gone far beyond the scope of what I could reasonably expect of it in any proportionate 
response to what, on the face of it, were legitimate payment requests from its customers.
And while it is plausible to think that had Santander spoken to Mr and Mrs R it might have 
given them general information about investment scam risks, I dont think a proportionate 
response from the bank would have led Mr and Mrs R not to proceed of their own accord  
again I simply dont think theyd have been able to uncover information that would have 
caused them to question what theyd been told about W, disbelieve the literature theyd 
received, or have significant doubts about proceeding with the payments they were planning 
to make.
Mr and Mrs Rs representatives have also stated that information has been obtained 
indicating that Santander had previously held an account for W. They state this had been 
closed, and that this meant the bank should have known Mr and Mrs Rs payment to W at 
another bank might be fraudulent. Ive considered this argument, but it doesnt alter my 
findings. 
Firstly, W appears to have been able to open an account with a different bank (the account 
that received Mr and Mrs Rs cheques). Had a previous account with Santander been closed 
through suspicions of fraud, that would seem extremely unlikely, and on balance I find that 
implausible. 
And more importantly, even if this could be established to the contrary, I dont consider 
Santander could realistically be expected it to have uncovered that connection in the course 
of a proportionate intervention in relation to Mr and Mrs Rs cheques. That would have 
required a level of forensic investigation beyond what I consider would be reasonable to 
expect of good industry practice at the time, and out of proportion to the level of risk it could 
have identified.
In short, while Ive carefully reviewed all of Mr and Mrs Rs submissions, I dont find that 
significant concerns would (or could) have been readily uncovered by either Santander or 
Mr and Mrs R at the relevant time. I can only reasonably expect any enquiries by Santander 
to have been proportionate to what the perceived level of risk could have been at the time 
(not as it seems now). All considered, I dont think it likely that Santander could have 
prevented these payments from being made, or otherwise caused Mr and Mrs R not to 
proceed.
Finally, by the time Mr and Mrs R reported the matter to Santander, I understand that the 
receiving bank account was no longer active and so no funds would have remained for 
recovery at that point. So, it simply was not possible for Santander to have retrieved Mr and 
Mrs Rs money.
Having carefully considered everything Mr and Mrs R and Santander have submitted, I dont 
find Santander could have reasonably prevented Mr and Mrs Rs loss here. Neither do I find 
it materially at fault otherwise. 
I appreciate this will not be the answer Mr and Mrs R would like me to give, and I am sorry to 
have to disappoint them, They have lost a significant sum. But it is simply the case that I 
dont consider I can fairly and reasonably hold Santander liable for that loss.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Rs 
complaint about Santander UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman