DRN-2434422
The complaint
Mr K says HSBC Bank plc (HSBC trading at the time of sale as first direct) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in July 2000. Mr K applied for the 
card and insurance through a postal application.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint and will explain why.
I think HSBC made Mr K aware that the PPI was optional, and he chose to take it. I say this 
because I can see on the application form provided by HSBC that PPI was presented as an 
optional requirement. Mr K would also have had to have ticked a box to agree to it. So, I am 
persuaded after seeing this that Mr K was given a choice to have PPI and he agreed to it by 
ticking in the box on the application form. If he didnt want PPI, he could have ticked the box 
for not having it or he could have left that section blank.
As this was a postal application, I dont think HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr K. So, it 
didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. HSBC did have to ensure that the information it 
gave Mr K was clear, fair and not misleading so that he could make an informed choice 
about the insurance. 
It is possible the information HSBC gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But I think he would have taken the policy anyway. It would have paid more than 
his minimum credit card repayments, for up to 12 months if he couldnt find work, providing a 
useful extra benefit at a difficult time. He doesnt appear to have had means to make his 
credit card repayments if he couldnt work for an extended period of time, at least not 
enough that it would have put him off from having the insurance. The policy was also 
affordable and competitively priced. 
Mr K was self employed at the time of sale. So, I have checked the policy document from the 
time the PPI was sold to him to consider whether the terms given for self employed people 
making a claim for benefit was restrictive in any way. I can see that Mr K would have been 
able to claim benefit as a self employed policy holder and the conditions that applied were 
not restrictive or onerous on him. So, I dont think this was a significant term that he needed 
clearer information on or was something that would have put him off at the time of sale. I 
also couldnt find any other exclusions or limitations within the policy that would have 
affected him either.
In conclusion, I think Mr K would still have bought the policy if the information that HSBC had 
given him about the PPI had been better. This means Mr K isnt worse off as a result of 
anything HSBC did wrong, and theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman