DRN-2328347
The complaint
Mr W and Miss S complain that TSB Bank plc mis-advised them when they applied for a 
mortgage with it.
What happened
Mr W and Miss S met with a TSB advisor in late September 2019 to discuss re-mortgaging. 
The advisor explained she was a TSB tied advisor and would seek to provide the most 
appropriate and cost-effective product for them from the banks range of mortgages. They 
received a recommendation in this meeting and, in principle, agreed a mortgage.
Around two weeks later Mr W and Miss S discovered a table in a newspaper showing the 
best mortgage rates available. This showed a lower rate for TSB than the mortgage product 
they had agreed to. They contacted TSB, but it explained this rate was only available 
through a broker and not directly.
Mr W and Miss S complained to TSB as it considered they had been mis-advised, as the 
advisor hadnt told them about this better rate. They said theyd expected to be receiving the 
most competitive terms from the banks own range.
TSB responded to the complaint not upholding it. It set out that the product Mr W and Miss S 
had seen was an intermediary-only product, so was only available through a mortgage 
broker. It advised them to contact a suitable broker if they wanted this product and said that 
it was common practice in the industry for this situation to occur, as this helped financial 
providers cater for customers needs in different ways. 
Mr W and Miss S brought their complaint to our service. They considered the advisor 
shouldve told them about this rate and said they were aggravated that they were told they 
couldnt benefit from this rate directly. Our investigator didnt uphold their complaint, so they 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ultimately my role is to look at this individual case and decide if the business complained 
about has done something wrong. Its not to act as a regulator for financial businesses, or to 
set out to them how they should operate as a whole. 
In this case, I havent seen any evidence that Mr W and Miss S have suffered a financial 
loss. While I appreciate they had begun the mortgage process directly with TSB, they 
werent tied into anything at the time they discovered the lower rate. So when they continued 
taking out the mortgage product directly with TSB, they did so knowing that if they instead 
went through a broker, they may have saved money. While I appreciate there wouldve been 
a level of inconvenience in restarting the mortgage process at this time, its accepted that 
they couldve done this without any fees etc. But instead, they completed their application 
with TSB, on the rate previously agreed. So I dont see how theyve suffered any loss, 
considering they went ahead with this mortgage knowing their options.
Mr W and Miss Ss complaint really seems to be that TSB allows independent brokers to 
offer different mortgage rates than it offers to customers directly. But this is a commercial 
judgement TSB has made. And our service cant interfere with these  I can only look to see 
if the judgement made is legitimate. I see no evidence that this policy discriminates against 
any customers or that it prevents anyone from accessing this rate  TSB has confirmed that 
it was available to new and existing customers, as long as they used suitable broker and met 
the criteria. So Ive not seen anything to suggest the decision to only offer this rate through 
brokers wasnt a legitimate commercial judgement. 
Mr W and Miss S say that TSB told them its advisor would provide them with the most 
appropriate and cost-effective product from TSBs range of mortgages. And so it hasnt done 
this, as TSB did have other, better rates that werent offered to them. However, I agree with 
our investigator that as they were told this in branch, by an advisor, this statement applies to 
the transaction between those individuals. Im satisfied the advisor set out their role and 
followed the right steps, offering Mr W and Miss S the best rate they could. Also, even if I 
was to agree with Mr W and Miss S that the advisor shouldve told them they might be able 
to get this other rate via a broker, Id then have to consider what they wouldve done. And, as 
Ive already set out, when Mr W and Miss S discovered they could get a better rate via a 
broker, they didnt go to one. So I cant be sure that the advisor telling them about a 
marginally better rate elsewhere wouldve changed the situation theyre now in.
Also, as our investigator also pointed out, some brokers do charge a fee. While Ive already 
set out how Mr W and Miss S havent shown theyve suffered a financial loss, its possible 
that theyve saved money by going direct. Theyve calculated they couldve saved £550 over 
five years with the broker rate. But its entirely possible that the broker fee would be more 
than this  so they could well be better off.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont consider TSB has done anything wrong in how its 
treated Mr W and Miss S. I also cant agree they should be put in a better position by making 
this complaint. When they applied for their mortgage it wasnt possible to get the lower rate 
directly from TSB, so other customers who got this rate did so by going through a broker. 
Mr W and Miss S either needed to do this, or accept the rate they were offered in branch  
which is what they ultimately did. It wouldnt be fair for them to now receive the broker rate 
despite going directly to TSB, as this isnt a situation they couldve ever been in. And I see 
no reason to award them any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr W and Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2021.
 
Amy OsborneOmbudsman