DRN-4107695
The complaint
Miss S complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle), trading as Oodle Car 
Finance, irresponsibly granted her a hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In November 2021, Miss S acquired a used vehicle financed by a hire purchase agreement 
from Oodle. Miss S was required to make a first payment of £418.06 followed by 58 monthly 
repayments of £368.06, with a final optional payment of £418.06 if she wanted to own the 
vehicle at the end of the agreement. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£26,183.60.
Miss S says that Oodle didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Oodle didnt agree. It said that it carried 
out a thorough assessment which included using credit checks and statistical data. But it 
offered her compensation for the delay in looking into her complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the affordability complaint be upheld. He thought Oodle 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss S didnt agree and said Oodle ought to have carried out better checks at the time. 
The case has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oodle will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Miss S previously had two other hire purchase agreements with Oodle. However, Oodle 
carried out a new set of checks to see if her new agreement would be affordable. Oodle 
asked Miss S about her income and says it took steps to validate the amount she said she 
was receiving. But it doesnt seem to have taken steps to further verify her income before 
approving the finance. One way to do this would be by asking her to provide some copy 
payslips. 
Oodle says it also relied on national statistics data to help it to calculate if the agreement 
was likely to be affordable. The regulator has said firms can estimate expenditure unless it 
knows or there are indicators to suggest an estimate is unlikely to be accurate. The credit 
check Oodle completed for Miss S shows she was generally managing her credit well with 
her credit cards and other unsecured borrowing, although there was evidence of having had 
at least two missed payments on one of the mail order accounts she had. So I think, taken 
together with the fact that Miss S was planning to borrow a relatively large sum repayable 
over a five year period, there was some risk that Miss S could start to struggle with meeting 
the repayments for the agreement. In those circumstances I think it would have been 
reasonable and proportionate for Oodle to have done more to understand Miss Ss specific 
financial circumstances, rather than relying on a statistical data to check if it was affordable.  
Ive considered what Oodle would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks. One of the ways that Oodle could have verified Miss Ss  
expenditure was by reviewing bank statements. In the absence of anything else, Ive 
reviewed three months of statements which I think give a good indication of what Oodle 
would likely have found out had it completed proportionate checks. 
The statements show that Miss Ss typical monthly income was between £2,800 and £3,000, 
taking into account her employed salary and state benefits. And I agree with our adjudicator 
that her monthly spending on household costs, such as utilities, food and housing costs, plus 
her existing credit commitments, was around £1,700. So, based on her monthly income, 
Miss S looks likely to have had disposable income available of at least £1,100 each month. 
Ive also noted that Miss S took out a consolidation loan in October 2021 of around £12,000. 
Its not clear to me if this showed up in the credit checks Oodle carried out, but I think the 
agreement was still likely to have been affordable to Miss S with her taking on this additional 
credit. 
Taking these figures into account, it therefore appears to show the agreement was 
affordable to Miss S. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Oodle acted unfairly in 
approving the finance. 
I know Miss S is unhappy that she ended up making payments that were more expensive 
than she wanted to pay. She says she felt pressured by Oodle into taking the agreement. 
She says this was because the vehicle she wanted was no longer available. But Ive seen 
that she was given the opportunity to look over and consider the agreement and supporting 
paperwork before signing it. So although I have no doubt that Miss S has given us her best 
recollection of what happened at the time, I think it was open to her not to go ahead with the 
agreement. 
It follows that I dont think Miss S has been able to demonstrate that the agreement was 
unaffordable. So I cant reasonably conclude that Oodle ought to have known she would 
struggle to make the repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that Oodle acted unfairly in 
approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman