DRN-3840573
The complaint
Miss B complains that Argos Limited, trading as Argos Financial Services (Argos) shouldnt 
have provided her with credit as she couldnt afford to repay it.
What happened
Miss B was approved for an Argos credit card in April 2019, the credit limit was set at £500 
and in October 2019 the limit was raised to £750.
Miss B says it was irresponsible of Argos to have provided the credit and our investigator 
agreed. To resolve the situation our investigator suggested that Argos should refund any 
interest and charges, but she didnt think Argos should refund the capital as she thought 
Miss B had the benefit of that. Argos agreed to that resolution.
Miss B didnt agree. She said shed suffered from poor mental health for years and that was 
something Argos should have asked about. She explained that she simply didnt have the 
money available to her to pay this debt back and she asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and
reasonable here.
Theres no longer a dispute that the credit shouldnt have been provided as Argos have 
accepted that. But for completeness I would add that I agree. There was evidence on Miss 
Bs credit file at the time of her application that she was in a payment arrangement with a 
creditor. That arrangement had defaulted by the time the credit limit was increased and I 
think that meant the checks completed by Argos werent reasonable and proportionate. 
I think they should have asked for more information to clarify Miss Bs income and 
expenditure. Whilst they didnt have to ask for bank statements, in the absence of other 
information I think theyre a good guide to what Argos would have found if theyd asked for 
further information. The statements show Miss B was struggling financially, she was 
regularly in overdraft and was missing payments to her creditors. Her income was only about 
£400 a month when she applied for the card and by the time the limit was increased she was 
on benefits and in fact had told Argos about that only a month before the increase was 
applied. I think all that suggests the credit wasnt affordable for Miss B and Argos were 
irresponsible to provide it.
Putting things right
When we decide that credit shouldnt have been provided its usual for us to tell the business 
to refund any interest and charges that have been applied to the account as, if the capital 
hadnt been provided, the interest wouldnt have accrued.
However, we dont tell a business to waive the capital debt as that wouldnt be fair to them 
when, as is the case here, the consumer has had the benefit of the capital.
I was sorry to hear that Miss B had been experiencing mental health problems, but I cant 
see evidence that she told Argos about that, its not for instance, recorded in their system 
notes. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask them to take that into account now. 
However, as the capital was irresponsibly provided I think its fair for Argos to help Miss B 
and agree an affordable repayment plan with her for any balance that remains after they 
have carried out the redress Ive set out below. 
My final decision
As I dont think Argos Financial Services should have provided the credit, I dont think
its fair for it to be able to charge any interest or charges. But I think Miss B should pay back 
the amount she has borrowed as shes had the benefit of that money. Therefore, Im 
expecting to tell Argos Financial Services to:
Refund any interest or charges, so all interest (including any Buy Now Pay Later 
(BNPL) interest) and charges are removed*.
Work out how much Miss B would have owed after the above adjustments.
If after all adjustments have been made Miss B no longer owes any money, then all 
adverse information regarding this account should be removed from Miss Bs credit 
file from today.
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, Argos should look to arrange an affordable 
payment plan with Miss B for the outstanding amount. Once Miss B has cleared the 
balance, any adverse information should be removed from her credit file.
Argos sold the account in October 2021 so theyll need to buy it back before they can apply 
the redress Ive set out above. Argos have confirmed theyve already set that buy back in 
motion.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Argos to deduct tax from any award of interest.
It must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for
one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after
deducting the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman