DRN-4262128
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Santander UK Plc misinformed her about the terms of an ISA.
What happened
Mrs M opened a variable rate ISA with Santander. The staff member she spoke with 
convinced her to open the ISA and explained that Mrs M wouldnt need to monitor the ISA 
account because any interest rate increases would be applied to the ISA automatically 
during the twelve-month term. But when Mrs M did review her ISA at the end of the twelve-
month term, she noticed the interest rate had remained the same for the whole term, despite 
several base rate increases. Mrs M wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Santander responded to Mrs M and explained while Mrs Ms ISA was a variable rate ISA, it 
was at Santanders discretion as to whether to lower or increase the interest rate for that 
product and that the interest rate was directly linked to the UK base rate as Mrs M inferred. 
And Santander explained that they had issued newer twelve-month ISAs with better interest 
rates, which Mrs M had been free to move her money into, but that it had been Mrs Ms 
responsibility to have monitored her account and requested such a transfer. Mrs M wasnt 
satisfied with Santanders response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Santander had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that Mrs M has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding 
her complaint. Id like to thank Mrs M for these submissions, and I hope she doesnt consider 
it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an 
informal dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mrs M notes that I havent addressed a specific point shes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mrs M and Santander. Rather, it should 
be taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it 
directly in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
 
It's clear from Mrs Ms complaint that she had an incorrect understanding of the terms of the 
ISA that she signed up for and about which she now complains. I say this because Im 
satisfied from the terms and conditions and the key features document for the ISA that 
Santander have administered the ISA in line with those terms. But Mrs M has explained that 
she was misled by the Santander staff member she spoke with at the point of sale, who gave 
her incorrect information about the ISA, and who was therefore the cause of her developing 
the incorrect understanding of the ISA terms that she did.
Mrs M notes that the point-of-sale staff member told her that the ISA had a variable interest 
rate that would increase automatically when Santander increased interest rates. Because of 
this, Santanders staff member told Mrs M that there was no need for her to take any action 
to obtain a more favourable interest rate and that therefore she didnt need to monitor the 
ISA account at all during the twelve-month term.
But the truth of the matter was that while the interest rate for the ISA was variable, any 
changes in the ISA interest rate were entirely at the discretion of Santander and werent 
automatically applied in response to any stimuli or factor. And, in this instance, Santander 
didnt elect to change the interest rate during the ISA term.
There were, however, opportunities available for Mrs M to obtain a higher interest rate during 
the ISA term. And this was because during the term Santander issued a series of new ISAs 
which benefitted from better interest rates to which Mrs M was free to move her money at 
any time. But Santander didnt automatically transfer money from one ISA to another. Such a 
transfer had to be requested by an ISA account holder.
Mrs M is adamant that Santanders staff member told her that she didnt need to monitor her 
ISA account and that all interest rate increases would be automatically applied for her. But 
theres no record of the conversation between Mrs M and Santanders agent for this to be 
verified, and Santander dont feel that their advisor was likely to have given such clearly 
incorrect information.
In circumstances such as this, where the positions of a complainant and a respondent 
business sit against one another, and where theres no corroborating evidence available, I 
have to deicide which of the two versions of events I feel is most likely to have happened, on 
balance, and in full consideration of all the information and evidence that is available to me.
However, in this instance, I dont feel that its necessary for me to decide which version of 
events is most likely to have happened. This is because Mrs M was presented with the terms 
and conditions and key features documents for the ISA  which confirmed the correct terms 
of the product. And I feel that it should have been apparent to Mrs M from these documents 
that her understanding of the nature of the ISA was incorrect.
Additionally, it was Mrs Ms responsibility as the account holder to have monitored her ISA 
account. And if Mrs M didnt want to monitor the account online as shes explained was the 
case, and if was told by Santanders agent that she didnt need to monitor the account 
online, then there were several other channels available for her to regularly access her 
account. And I feel it stands to reason, whatever Mrs M may have been told by Santanders 
agent, that the responsibility for monitoring an account, rests with the account holder.
Because of this, I dont feel that Santander have acted unfairly towards Mrs M as she feels is 
the case here. This is because if Mrs M was given incorrect information about the ISA by 
Santanders agent, she was given correct information about the ISA in document form, which 
I feel Mrs M reasonably should have reviewed. And because I feel that if Mrs M did miss the opportunity to transfer her ISA balance to a new ISA with a better interest rate, that this was 
because Mrs M didnt monitor her ISA account, which ultimately it was her responsibility to.
None of which is to say that I do or do not accept Mrs Ms position that Santanders agent 
gave her incorrect information as shes explained. But it is to say that if that were the case, I 
dont feel that Mrs Ms responsibilities to have reviewed the ISA documents and to have 
understood the account, or to have then monitored the ISA, were reasonably diminished in 
the manner that Mrs M contends.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs M was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action. I hope Mrs M will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman