DRN-2850851
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC treated him unfairly when he asked for 
additional borrowing on his mortgage. He asks that it arranges the additional borrowing at a 
good interest rate, apologises and pays compensation for his time, stress and 
inconvenience.
What happened
Mr H had an offset mortgage with Barclays. He contacted Barclays in late 2020. He wanted 
to take out additional borrowing of £10,000 for home improvements. 
Barclays agreed the additional borrowing. However, it said Mr H would have to take out a 
new interest rate product. Mr H wanted to keep his existing product as this had a lower 
interest rate.
Mr H says he had difficulty arranging a meeting with a mortgage adviser, and when making a 
complaint.
Our investigator said Barclays had acted fairly and in line with its usual process when it said 
Mr H would have to take out a new product for the additional borrowing. She said Barclays 
responded to Mr Hs complaint and offered him a meeting with a mortgage adviser. It didnt 
have to keep the complaint open.
Mr H didnt agree. He said he was passed around by Barclays, having to explain his 
personal details repeatedly instead of being put through to someone who could help. He said 
Barclays closed his complaint despite not having resolved it.
Mr H says when a meeting was eventually arranged the mortgage adviser recommended he 
exit his existing product and take out a new product with a higher interest rate for the whole 
mortgage (not just the additional borrowing). He said the mortgage adviser wasnt willing to 
discuss a new product just for the additional borrowing despite him asking about this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H contacted Barclays in November 2020 about additional borrowing. Mr H said in his 
complaint he was told he couldnt have additional borrowing. Barclays notes say it told Mr H 
hed have to forego his existing offset product and choose a new product if he wanted the 
additional borrowing. Barclays notes say it told Mr H he could raise a complaint, but as this 
was policy the outcome wouldnt change.
Mr H raised a complaint. Barclays arranged a meeting with a mortgage adviser. It says the 
mortgage adviser suggested options, but these werent acceptable to Mr H. Mr H wanted to 
retain the product he had and take out extra borrowing.
Barclays policy is that customers are only allowed one offset product, and they cant take 
out additional borrowing while retaining the product. If a customer wants to take out 
additional borrowing they have to undertake an internal re-mortgage and take out a new 
product for the whole amount.
Mr H has an offset mortgage with a lifetime fixed interest rate, which he wants to retain. The 
product rates on offer in late 2020 were less favourable. Mr H says having to change to the 
less favourable rate available at that time would have increased the overall cost of his 
mortgage by about £25,000. He says this is disproportionate when he only wants to borrow 
£10,000 extra. 
I sympathise with Mr H here. Barclays policy means Mr H has a difficult decision  he can 
take out additional borrowing and change products or he can look for the borrowing 
elsewhere. Mr H can of course check what product rates are available from time to time as 
they do change, and its possible a new product will become available which is acceptable to 
him. 
I think though that Barclays applied its policy correctly. I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
require Barclays to make an exception from its policy and offer Mr H additional borrowing 
while allowing him to retain his existing product. 
Mr H says when he tried to make a complaint he was put on hold, given the wrong telephone 
number and asked to give personal information and describe his complaint repeatedly. He 
says Barclays closed his complaint against his clear instructions and refused to re-open it. 
I should explain that complaint handling isnt itself a regulated activity. This means it isnt 
something we can look into. While we can look into how a complaint was dealt with if it 
impacted on the underlying problem being resolved, I dont think that was the case here. 
Barclays told Mr H from the outset it couldnt offer additional borrowing on the terms he 
wanted. Mr H didnt agree and made a complaint. He spent time pursuing this and from what 
he says experienced some poor service. But I think Barclays had already done what it could 
to resolve the matter, by explaining the terms on which it would offer further borrowing.
I appreciate that Mr H was frustrated and disappointed that he wasnt able to take out further 
borrowing on the terms he wanted. But I dont think Barclays acted unfairly and I dont think 
its fair and reasonable to require it to pay compensation or take any further steps.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman