DRN-1440787
 
The complaint
Mr I and Miss F say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy in December 1999. 
What happened
Mr I and Miss F took out an MPPI policy alongside a mortgage in December 1999.
The policy cost £21.27 each month and it covered both Mr I and Miss F in the event either of 
them lost their job and was unemployed or if either wasnt working due to accident or 
sickness. And it wouldve provided a monthly benefit of £437.50 for up to 24 months 
following a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mr I and Miss F disagreed so 
the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr I and Miss Fs case. And, having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold.
I think its likely Halifax made it clear that Mr I and Miss F didnt have to take out the MPPI 
and they chose to purchase the policy  although I can understand if they cant remember 
this given how long ago it was  more than 20 years ago.
Mr I and Miss F says they didnt know that the policy was optional, and believed they had to 
take it to assist their application. Its impossible for me to know what, if anything, Mr I and 
Miss F were told about the policy when they discussed it with the adviser, and I accept its 
possible they was told they had to have it. However, having weighed up the available 
evidence, and based on what I know about Halifax MPPI sales at this time, I cannot safely 
conclude Mr I and Miss F was not given an option.
In order to take out the MPPI, Mr I and Miss F needed to complete a separate application 
form, which indicates that the policy was not an integral part of the mortgage application. 
And this suggests to me that the policy was not compulsory. So, having weighed up the 
evidence and arguments from both parties, I cannot conclude Mr I and Miss F was told they 
had to have the policy or that taking it would assist their mortgage application and the 
granting of credit. It seems just as likely they were advised that they should have the policy 
(rather than must) and opted to take it out based on the information provided to them.
Halifax confirms that this was an advised sale, so it needed to take appropriate steps to 
ensure that the policy was suitable for Mr I and Miss F. And for the reasons set out below I 
think it was suitable for them, taking into account the policy benefits, cost of cover and their broader financial circumstances at that time. And I dont think its likely that they wouldve 
acted differently; and not taken out the policy, if theyd been better advised and informed.
I say this because:
 
The policy covered Mr I and Miss F and given their circumstances at the time of the 
sale, (and taking account of the policy conditions), I am satisfied they were both 
eligible for the cover.
 
Their circumstances do not suggest that they wouldve been affected by any of the 
significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating to health 
conditions or unusual employment arrangements  they told us they were both 
employed and in good health  so they could expect to benefit from the full extent of 
the cover provided by this policy.
 
Whilst Mr I and Miss F received some occupational benefits; between six and twelve 
months sick pay, this does not automatically mean that the policy was unsuitable. 
This is because if they were they unable to work, the MPPI was intended to remove 
the additional pressure of maintaining mortgage repayments, at what would likely be 
a difficult time. And of course, the benefit this policy wouldve provided would be in 
addition to any occupational sick pay and wouldve lasted for longer.
 
Mr I and Miss F told us they had some savings  but the policy would also have 
allowed Mr I and Miss F to leave these savings for the purpose that theyd intended 
as well as other essential expenses at what is likely to be a difficult time financially if 
either of them wasnt working.
 
Mr I and Miss Fs mortgage represented a significant debt and there would be 
serious implications for them if they were unable to make the mortgage repayments. 
It is reasonable to think someone in their situation would want to make sure they 
were protected, if they faced the unfortunate situation of being unable to work for an 
extended period of time.
 
So, Im satisfied that if a recommendation was made, the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for someone in their circumstances.
I dont know for certain how the costs of the policy were explained during the conversation 
with the Halifax sales adviser. The policy provided a monthly benefit at a cost of around £21 
per month. And it seems to me that someone in their circumstances might have concluded 
that the policy provided valuable cover at a very reasonable price. And, in the event that they 
no longer wanted to have the benefit of the cover, Mr I and Miss F could have cancelled the 
policy at any time without penalty.
 
 
SummarySo, having considered all the evidence carefully, although I accept there may well have been 
some failings in how the policy was sold, I dont think Mr I and Miss F would have decided 
against taking it out if they had been better informed. It seems more likely to me that they 
had some interest in protecting their mortgage repayments and chose to go ahead with the 
policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman