DRN-3759010
The complaint
Mr W complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) unfairly blocked card payments.
Mr W also complains about the service provided by Co-op when he calls to discuss the
blocked payments.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr W complains that Co-op unfairly blocked card payments. Mr W also complains about 
the service provided by Co-op when he calls to discuss the blocked payments.
In 2020 Mr W complained to Co-op after payments were blocked. Mr W says the payments 
were genuine and the fraud blocks unnecessary. Mr W also says the process of releasing 
the blocks took too long and call handlers were argumentative.
Co-op issued a final response on 6 October 2020 and said a payment had been correctly 
picked up by its fraud prevention system for further checks. Co-op apologised for the call 
wait time Mr W had experienced and didnt agree the members of staff he spoke with were 
rude or argumentative. Co-op paid Mr W £20 as a gesture of goodwill.
In May 2021 Mr W complained again after further card payments were blocked. Co-op 
sent Mr W another complaint response on 19 May 2021 but didnt agree it had made 
mistakes. Co-op said the card block was correctly used after payments were flagged for 
further checks. Co-op didnt agree it had acted unfairly or that its staff were rude.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ws complaint. They didnt agree that card 
payments had been incorrectly blocked. But the investigator thought Mr W had been unfairly 
inconvenienced due to the number and length of calls hed had to make. Both Mr W and 
Co-op asked to appeal, so this complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has made a number of points when bringing their complaint. Ive considered and 
read everything that all parties have said and sent to us. If I havent directly mentioned 
something thats happened or responded to each point raised it isnt because I havent 
considered it. I have. In line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be 
focusing on the key issues of this complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
An approach our rules allow me to take. Id like to assure all parties that no discourtesy is 
intended by this approach.
I think its reasonable to start by saying Co-ops account terms and conditions set out how 
payments are made. The terms say:
Well make a payment from your account if you ask us unless we suspect fraudulent or 
criminal activity.
Given the terms and conditions contain a provision that allows Co-op to decline a payment 
if it suspects fraud, Ive looked at whether its done so fairly in Mr Ws case.
Co-op says each of the blocked card payments came about following an automated alert 
from its fraud prevention systems. Co-ops provided systems evidence and Im satisfied 
that each time a payment has been blocked or held it followed a fraud warning from its 
systems. I appreciate the attempted payments were all genuine, but Im satisfied Co-op 
had legitimate concerns so its decision to block the payments was reasonable.
In response to the investigator, Mr W provided details of payments that were blocked. And 
they are in line with the payments Co-op says were stopped. I appreciate there were 
several occasions in 2020 and 2021 where payments were picked up by Co-op. In my view, 
that reflects the level of debit card payments being made rather than a mistake. For 
instance, Co-op says Mr W made nearly 1,000 debit card payments in 2021 but only six 
were held by its systems. And its provided evidence that shows all the blocked transactions 
were picked up by its fraud prevention systems. I havent found evidence that shows Co-op 
acted unfairly by blocking payments.
Mr W says calls following fraud blocks were poorly handled and that staff were 
argumentative. Ive looked at the available evidence and dont doubt that Mr Ws calls took 
a reasonable amount of time. I can see that caused Mr W some inconvenience. But I think 
the length of time Mr W spent discussing the issues with Co-op was due to the questions it 
had to ask and reflects his requests for a more detailed picture of how its fraud prevention 
systems work. I can see Mr W disagreed with Co-ops decision to block card payments. In 
my view, thats impacted the time taken to complete calls.
I accept the call handlers mayve had to ask questions Mr W felt were unnecessary and 
referred to potential fraud. And I can see a growing frustration with the card blocks that 
were put in place and references to fraud generally. But I havent found that Co-op treated 
Mr W unfairly overall. Ultimately, it had legitimate concerns over fraud and had to ask 
difficult questions to ensure Mr Ws account was protected. I havent been persuaded that 
Co-ops call handlers treated Mr W unfairly.
Im very sorry as I understand my decision is likely to disappoint Mr W but I havent found 
grounds to tell Co-op to take further action. In my view, Co-op dealt with Mr Ws complaints 
fairly, so Im not telling it to do anything else.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional points or information before I made my 
final decision. Co-op confirmed it had nothing further to add. Mr W confirmed he didnt 
accept the conclusions I reached and asked for more time to provide further evidence. We 
gave Mr W more time to respond but havent received anything further.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information, I see no reason to change the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. I remain of the view that Co-op dealt with Mr Ws 
complaint fairly, for the same reasons. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman