DRN-3771824
The complaint
Miss C complains that Nationwide Building Society gave her wrong information about when 
her cheque would be cleared and the funds available.
What happened
On Saturday 14 May 2022, Miss C visited a Nationwide branch to deposit a cheque. She 
tried to use the ATM to do so, but the machine was out of service and wouldnt accept it. So, 
she contacted Nationwide via its online webchat service for assistance. The agent Miss C 
spoke with advised her to use the branch post deposit box instead, which she did. 
Miss C expected the money to be available by Monday 16 May but, when she checked, the 
money hadnt cleared  so Miss C complained. She said that the agent shed spoken with 
had told her the money would be available by Monday. Miss C said she had payments which 
needed to be made but, because the money wasnt available, she wouldnt be able to make 
them. Miss C was also unhappy with how shed been treated in branch. 
Nationwide sent its final response to Miss C on 24 June. Having reviewed things, Nationwide 
said Miss Cs cheque had been processed correctly. And it clarified that if a cheque was paid 
in on a Saturday then the day of deposit would be the next working day, which is what had 
happened in Miss Cs case. Nationwide explained that it hadnt seen a copy of the webchat 
transcript during which Miss C was told her cheque would be cleared by Monday. But it said 
that if Miss C was willing to provide a copy then it would investigate further. Finally, 
Nationwide said that its branch staff had tried to support Miss C  not shout at her. And it 
apologised for any frustration which may have been caused.  
Miss C remained unhappy, and she complained to Nationwide again. She reiterated her 
main complaint points, about misinformation and staff, but also raised some additional 
concerns. Primarily, she didnt feel that her complaints  about several issues  had been 
logged correctly. 
Nationwide sent a further response to Miss C on 22 July 2022. In it, Nationwide referred 
Miss C back to its final response letter. It also said that Miss Cs complaint had been logged 
correctly, and that the two key points shed raised had been responded to. 
Miss C contacted our service for an independent review of her complaint. An investigator 
here looked at what had happened and, overall, he didnt think Nationwide had done 
anything wrong. 
He said, in summary, that:
Miss Cs cheque had been handled in-line with Nationwides cheque clearing 
process. 
Nationwide had responded to Miss Cs concerns appropriately. While there may have 
been some confusion over how some of her points had been logged and dealt with, 
this hadnt had a detrimental impact. 
Overall, Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong and didnt need to take any further 
action. 
Miss C didnt accept what our investigator had said. She maintained that shed been given 
incorrect information about when her money would be available, and she still didnt think that 
Nationwide had correctly dealt with her complaint points. 
So, as no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I think its important to explain that my role here requires me to decide how a complaint 
should be settled quickly and with minimal formality. As such, in this decision, Ive focussed 
on what I believe are the key issues. 
Its clear that Miss C feels very strongly about what happened. So, I wish to reassure her 
that I have read and considered everything shes said. But if I havent mentioned a particular 
point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I 
dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy. 
Rather, its a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Ive looked first at the information Miss C was given about her cheque when she used 
Nationwides webchat service. Miss C has kindly provided a copy of the conversation with 
Nationwides agent. I think the part of relevance here is:
you can pop [it] in the post box with a note of sort code and account number and they will 
do it for you on Monday
It appears that Miss C interpreted that message as confirmation that her money will be 
available on Monday. But, in my view, thats not what it says. Instead, I think that when 
Nationwides agent said they will do it they were explaining that the branch would 
process Miss Cs cheque on Monday  not that the funds will be clear by that day and 
available for her to spend. 
Theres nothing Ive seen which suggests to me that Nationwide guaranteed or assured 
Miss C that her money would be available on the Monday after shed paid in her cheque. So, 
with that in mind, I dont find that Nationwide provided any misinformation to Miss C about 
her cheque. Nor, from what Ive seen, do I think any unnecessary delays occurred. The 
information I have available suggests Miss Cs cheque was processed and cleared just as it 
should have been. And all thats happened here, it seems, is simply a misunderstanding. 
Separately, I know Miss C doesnt think Nationwide has correctly dealt with or addressed her 
complaint points. And shes provided copies of webchat transcripts where shes referenced 
issues like staff attitude and how Nationwide logged her concerns, which she says shes not 
received a specific response to. 
From my reading of Nationwides responses, it has addressed multiple complaint points at 
once. Its final response letter covers the alleged misinformation provided to Miss C and the general attitude of staff. It also refers to Miss Cs unhappiness at suggestions she was given 
by staff for how to overcome the problem  albeit not in great detail. Nationwides further 
response then covers the logging of her complaints and branch opening hours. 
I appreciate that Miss C might have expected each issue that she raised to be logged as a 
separate complaint and responded to individually. However, I think that the points shes 
complained about stem from and are a continuation of the crux of the matter  which is her 
cheque deposit. So, on that basis, Im satisfied that it was reasonable of Nationwide to 
consider everything under one complaint. While its quite possible that theres been some 
confusion here, overall, I cant fairly conclude that Nationwide has ignored the concerns that 
Ive seen Miss C raised.
To sum up, then, I can understand Miss Cs frustration that the money wasnt available when 
she needed  or expected  it to be. And I know that shes been disappointed by the general 
experience she had. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont find that Nationwide acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here. And while I realise this outcome isnt what Miss C will be 
hoping for, I dont require Nationwide to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman