DRN-3054142
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service Connells Limited provided when he was trying to buy a 
property as a first-time buyer.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr S approached Connells Limited for help with getting a mortgage on a 
flat through a shared ownership scheme. Connells looked into getting a mortgage for him, 
but he didnt go ahead at the time and his plans were put on hold due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. Mr S went back to Connells in around May 2020 hoping to go ahead and buy the 
same property.
Mr S made a new application to the housing association concerned, which was approved. 
His mortgage application was also successful. But Mr S found out from his solicitors in early 
July that the flat had been sold to someone else.
Mr S was understandably very upset as hed lost his chance to get on the property ladder. 
He blamed Connells for losing the flat. He thought they were contacting the estate agents to 
confirm his interest in buying the property. Mr S had paid Connells a fee of £599 to provide 
him with a lifetime mortgage broker service as well as an administration fee of £99 for 
arranging the mortgage. He thought contacting the estate agent on his behalf was part of the 
service Connells were providing.
Mr S wanted Connells to refund the fees hed paid them as well as a telegraphic transfer fee 
of £35 hed paid to the lenders and an arrangement fee of around £1,500 which was going to 
be added to his mortgage.
Since Connells didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint, he brought it to our service. Our investigator 
didnt think it was Connells responsibility to contact the estate agent as their role was to 
organise the mortgage. She noted Connells had offered to refund their lifetime mortgage 
broker fee of £599 and felt this was a reasonable way to resolve things. Mr S disagreed and 
thought Connells should refund the £99 fee as well and pay him compensation for the impact 
events had had on him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr S was a first-time buyer and the process was unfamiliar to him. But Mr S 
confirmed hed been given Connells key facts document which set out their services. And I 
think the information Connells provided made clear, as Id expect it to, that the £599 fee Mr S 
paid them was a transaction fee for arranging mortgages and remortgages over his lifetime, 
subject to an additional administration fee for each mortgage they arranged. It didnt say 
Connells would contact estate agents on Mr Ss behalf about properties he wanted to buy.
Connells say they understood Mr S had had an offer accepted on the property and went 
ahead and arranged the mortgage for him based on that understanding. I think it was 
reasonable for Connells to think that. Its what would normally happen. And I havent seen 
anything to suggest Connells gave Mr S the impression theyd be dealing with the estate 
agent for him or that he asked them to. So, whilst there was clearly a misunderstanding, I 
dont think Connells are to blame for Mr S losing the flat.
I can understand that Mr S will have been very disappointed by what happened and lost faith 
in Connells because he felt theyd made a mistake. But Connells offered to refund the £599 
fee Mr S had paid to release him from the lifetime mortgage broker service agreement. I 
think that was reasonable in the circumstances and, whilst I dont make any finding about it, 
Id encourage Connells to allow Mr S to accept that offer now if he hasnt already. I dont 
think it would be fair to ask Connells to refund the £99 transaction fee as they carried out the 
work necessary to obtain a mortgage offer for Mr S and were successful in doing so.
Since I dont think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld, I wont be asking Connells to make 
any payments to Mr S in respect of any other fees hes paid or to pay him compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman