DRN-3553493
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy about the way John Lewis Financial Services Limited handled her claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In July 2016 Mrs S purchased a mattress and bed base and paid using her JLFS credit card. 
The mattress cost £2050 and the base cost £1200.
The mattress was invoiced to Mrs S and delivered to her daughters address.
In March 2021 Mrs Ss daughter contacted the supplier to complain about the mattress. An 
inspection was arranged, and it was confirmed that there was a fault. A replacement 
mattress was delivered in July 2021.
Mrs Ss daughter wasnt happy with the replacement mattress. An inspection was arranged. 
The inspector found no faults and stated that the dips and ridges were normal features of the 
mattress.
Mrs S raised a claim under section 75 with JLFS seeking a refund for the mattress and base.
JLFS rejected the claim. It said the inspection report confirmed that there were no faults.
Mrs S remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that there was a fault with the mattress.
Mrs S didnt agree. She said the inspection wasnt independent because JLFS had chosen 
the company who carried out the inspection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mrs Ss complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract and that JLFSs response to the section 75 claim wasnt fair or reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality. The quality of goods 
includes their general state and condition as well as other things like fitness for purpose, 
freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Mrs S has said that the replacement mattress was uncomfortable and that it had dips and 
ridges. Ive looked at the independent inspection report dated 4 October 2021. This states 
that theres no fault with the mattress or the base. I havent seen any evidence to support a 
finding that theres a fault with the mattress, or that the mattress isnt of satisfactory quality.
In the absence of such evidence Im unable to say that JLFS has acted unfairly in rejecting 
the section 75 claim.
Ive taken into account what Mrs S has said about the independence of the independent 
inspection report. She says it was too reliant on an earlier inspection carried out by the 
manufacturer. Ive looked at both reports. In relation to the independent inspection report, I 
can see that this was carried out by a third party. I havent seen anything to suggest that it 
wasnt independent. And I dont think the fact that the independent report references an 
earlier report makes it unreliable.
Taking everything into account, Im unable to say that theres been a breach of contract 
here. Because of this, I dont think JLFS response to the section claim was unfair or 
unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman