DRN-4086069
The complaint
Mr B complains that his Experian Limited credit score reduced without good reason. 
What happened
Earlier this year, Mr B contacted Experian after he noticed the credit score it provides went 
from excellent to fair, bypassing good. Mr B noticed a drop from 950 to 870 but has 
explained his financial situation remained unchanged. Mr B contacted Experian and asked it 
to explain the reduction in his credit score. In addition, Mr Bs address details were updated 
with Experian. 
Experian issued a final response that said Mr Bs credit score had dropped as he wasnt 
showing as registered on the electoral roll and that his outstanding unsecured debt had 
increased after a new commitment to pay for insurance was reported. Experian added that 
Mr Bs credit score increased when his address was updated to show he is on the electoral 
roll. Experian also said that the credit score is a tool for customers to use to get an 
understanding of how businesses may view their credit file but isnt shared or used to make 
lending decisions. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Experian had dealt with Mr Bs case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr B asked to 
appeal and said his financial situation hadnt changed so it was unreasonable for his credit 
score to drop. As Mr B asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Experians explained that the credit score isnt shared with businesses that complete a credit 
search and is a tool it provides customers so they can get a better understanding of how 
businesses will view their credit. So whilst the credit score may have dropped, it wasnt 
reported on Mr Bs credit file and wouldnt have been visible to any lenders that carried out a 
search. As a result, even though the credit score Experian gives did go down, it wouldnt 
have impacted any credit applications Mr B may have made. 
Mr Bs asked why his credit score dropped. Experians explained the credit score went down 
because Mr B wasnt showing as being recorded on the electoral roll but has pointed out it 
went up when his address was updated in February 2023. In addition, Experians explained 
that an increase in unsecured debt due to an insurance commitment being recorded also 
brought Mr Bs credit score down. So whilst I understand why Mr B wanted to know the 
reasons behind the drop in his credit score, Im satisfied Experian has provided a reasonable 
and clear explanation. I note that Experians final response also gave some guidance on 
ways Mr B could increase his credit score. Given the nature of Mr Bs complaint, I think that 
was a reasonable step for Experian to take. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I havent been persuaded that Experian made a mistake in 
terms of how it calculated his credit score or that its response to his complaint was unclear. 
As Im satisfied Experian dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman