DRN-3221758
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with BUPA Insurance Limiteds decision to decline his claim. 
What happened
Mr B has private medical insurance with BUPA. Hes been a customer for many years and 
feels as though BUPAs decision to decline his claim is not only unfair but has made him feel 
less valued as a longstanding consumer. 
Mr B was diagnosed with sleep apnoea in August 2020 and so he submitted a claim for 
further diagnostics and treatment. Mr B said BUPA withdrew cover for sleep apnoea, without 
telling him, which is ultimately the reason for his complaint. Mr B said that BUPA shouldnt 
be allowed to withdraw benefits without good reason. 
Mr B also said that BUPA has taken advantage of the situation as its aware hes unable to 
find competitive cover elsewhere without declaring his pre-existing conditions. Hed like 
BUPA to cover his claim for sleep apnoea and his referral to a sleep clinic for further 
diagnostic tests.
BUPA declined Mr Bs claim saying that theres no cover available in the circumstances. It 
said that although Mr B had been a customer since 1991, he didnt always renew the same 
policy. It said his current policy was taken out in 2016 and that it was made clear in the 
documentation that sleep problems, including sleep apnoea were excluded.
Our investigator agreed with BUPA and so didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said that sleep 
apnoea was listed as one of the policy exclusions. He thought it fair that BUPA would 
reconsider his claim, should there be any further investigation which determines Mr Bs 
symptoms are related to a separate issue. He also disagreed that BUPA had withdrawn 
cover which previously included sleep apnoea as this was always an exclusion on Mr Bs 
policy since 2016. He didnt ask BUPA to do anything in respect of this complaint. 
Mr B disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. He didnt provide any new arguments and so its now for me to make a final 
decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. My reasons for doing so are similar to those 
already explained by our investigator. I think BUPA declined Mr Bs claim fairly because the 
policy doesnt provide cover for sleep problems. This is a clear exclusion which was present 
on the policy since it was incepted in 2016. Ive not seen any evidence which successfully 
shows that sleep problems were ever covered under Mr Bs policies and so I disagree with 
the suggestion itd been discreetly removed from cover. 
I should also say that BUPA is entitled to determine the risk its willing to cover for its 
consumers and so it can withdraw cover for conditions it doesnt want to insure. This is 
standard industry practice. 
The rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) say that BUPA must not decline a 
claim unfairly, or avoid a claim. And so, Ive thought carefully about its obligations under the 
FCA rules and I still think it hasnt declined Mr Bs claim unfairly. Ill explain why. 
The policy terms say;
under the General Exclusions  what is not covered section of the policy;
General Exclusion GE22 Sleep Problems and Disorders
Excluded treatment
Treatment for or arising from sleep problems or disorders such as insomnia, snoring or sleep
apnoea (temporarily stopping breathing during sleep)
Mr B claimed on his medical insurance for treatment of sleep apnoea. Im satisfied, 
considering the above term, that this condition is not covered by the policy he holds with 
BUPA. Therefore, Im satisfied that BUPA has declined his claim fairly because theres no 
cover for his condition in the current circumstances. I say that because BUPA has extended 
the offer of potential cover, should Mr Bs sleep problems end up being the result of another, 
acute medical condition thats covered by the policy. But as things stand at this time, Ive not 
seen any medical evidence that supports this and so theres nothing more that BUPA can 
reasonably do. 
Ive also thought about Mr Bs arguments about this exclusion not being clear but Im not 
persuaded by that either. I say that because not only is there a clear exclusion within the 
policy terms, but it was also listed on the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
which was sent to Mr B each time the policy was renewed. The IPID says on page 1;
What is not insured?
Treatment of or relating to sleep related disorders
And so, I disagree with Mr Bs arguments in relation to the clarity and prominence of the 
exclusion too. Its for these reasons I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint because, put simply, 
theres no cover for sleep related problems, including sleep apnoea and so BUPA hasnt 
declined his claim unfairly in the circumstances. 
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman