DRN-2486077
The complaint
Mr M had a motor insurance policy with Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited. He 
says it shouldnt have settled liability jointly for an accident that wasnt his fault.   
What happened
Mr M says his car was stationary in traffic on 19 October 2019 when an ambulance tried to 
pass it to attend an emergency. He says the front of the vehicle cleared his car, but the rear 
of it scraped the side and the front of his car on the passenger side. The ambulance driver 
accepted liability at the time. The other insurer also did so on 7 November 2019 and then 
paid for the repairs to Mr Ms car and for his hire. But on 27 November 2019 Watford advised 
Mr M that the other insurer now said it thought he was at fault for the accident and wanted to 
reclaim the costs it had paid.
 
Watford asked Mr M for a description and a sketch of the accident, which he provided. 
Watford advised him on 24 February 2020 that it had decided to offer to settle liability for the 
accident equally. As there was no independent evidence, Watford said it came down to one 
word against another - although it also said that it thought the damage favoured the other 
drivers version of events. The other insurer later accepted that liability should be split. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. She thought Watford had considered all 
the available information, including Mr Ms account of events, and that it had updated him 
appropriately. She said that under the policy, Watford had the right to settle claims as it 
thought fit. In her view it had done so reasonably, based on the evidence.
 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator pointed out, under the policy Watford has the right to settle any claim as it 
sees fit. We only intervene if we think an insurer has acted unreasonably, by not considering 
all the available evidence or by making a perverse decision. Although I quite understand why 
Mr M feels aggrieved by what has happened, I dont think Watford acted unreasonably. 
In my opinion, Mr Ms version of events is just as plausible as the other drivers version. I 
dont think it helped matters at all for the other insurer to suggest that Mr Ms account was of 
no weight because the ambulance couldnt have driven sideways into his car. In my opinion, 
its obvious that all that would have been required for the rear end of the ambulance to 
scrape the front end of Mr Ms car would have been for its driver to change the angle at 
which the vehicle was moving forward. And thats exactly what Mr M said had happened. 
I think the difficulty is that Watford also had to consider whether it was possible that Mr M 
could have moved his car as the ambulance was passing, as the other driver had claimed. 
Given the proximity of the vehicles, it wouldnt have taken much movement for his car to 
come into contact with it. As the facts were strongly disputed - and there was no 
independent evidence - Watford had to decide whether it could argue successfully in court 
that Mr Ms version of events was the accurate one. I can see why it thought the prospects of 
success with that werent such that it was worth risking legal action. Insurers generally settle 
claims unless they think theres a good chance of success in court.
It must be galling for Mr M that the other driver apologised at the scene and admitted liability, 
only to retract the admission later and argue that Mr M was to blame for the accident. But 
that isnt unusual, and Mr M cant prove exactly what was said at the scene anyway. It 
seems the other insurer must have been told initially that the other driver was at fault. But for 
whatever reason, the formal account later submitted by the other driver blamed Mr M for the 
accident, and I think the other driver was likely to maintain that account of events. 
By settling the claim with liability shared equally, Watford wasnt accepting that Mr M caused 
the accident, but it couldnt prove he didnt contribute to it. And the other insurer didnt think it 
could argue that the ambulance driver wasnt at fault. In the circumstances here, I think it 
was always likely that liability would be split, as what actually happened on the day of the 
accident cant be determined with any certainty. 
Unfortunately, Mr Ms no claims discount will have been affected by Watfords decision and 
his premiums are likely to rise. I can see why hes so unhappy about that, but as I dont think 
Watford acted unreasonably in settling the claim, I cant uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman