DRN-2904076
The complaint
Mr K complains about the customer service received from MCE Insurance Limited (MCE) 
after he reported an accident involving his motorcycle. 
  
What happened
Mr K was involved in an accident where the front wheel of his motorcycle hit a pothole. Mr K 
says he reported this to MCE and they recommended his claim be passed to a firm of 
solicitors  who Ill refer to as company F. Mr K says he agreed as he wanted the claim to be 
brought to the attention of the relevant Council to prevent any further accidents. Mr K says 
he received no contact for four months despite chasing MCE and company F. Mr K 
complained to MCE about the lack of updates. 
MCE responded and explained, as Mr K is comprehensively insured, he has the option to 
claim from his own policy for the damage to his motorcycle and MCE would manage this on 
his behalf. MCE said, if Mr K isnt claiming against his policy, then all they needed to do 
would be to record that an accident had taken place. MCE said, Mr K didnt feel he was at 
fault, so they informed him he could claim against his policy or pursue a claim against the 
Council. And, as Mr K wished to claim against the Council, they referred the claim to 
company F. MCE explained they arent responsible for any errors by company F as they are 
a separate company. MCE did accept there had been an error by them when an agent had 
told Mr K they couldnt log a complaint on his behalf. MCE explained this wasnt correct and 
a complaint shouldve been recorded and dealt with in line with MCEs complaints process. 
MCE apologised and offered £100 compensation. MCE said, if Mr K wishes to claim under 
his policy, he should let them know and they would instruct the insurer to begin processing a 
claim. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K. He thought MCE werent responsible for any 
delays and lack of updates in relation to the claim. And, he thought the £100 offered by MCE 
was reasonable for the complaint issue. Mr K disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided MCEs offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr K 
will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr K was given the option of claiming against his policy or 
pursuing a claim against the Council. And, Mr K chose to pursue a claim against the Council. 
MCE then referred the case to company F. Such arrangements arent unusual in cases 
where a customer tells their insurance broker they werent at fault. 
In this case, there wasnt another vehicle involved and, according to Mr K, the presence of 
the pothole caused the accident. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for MCE to suggest a 
referral to company F as one of the options available to Mr K. 
Its clear Mr K is frustrated at receiving no updates but its important to note MCEs 
involvement and responsibility here. Once the referral is made, I dont think its MCEs 
responsibility to progress the claim against the Council and keep Mr K updated. I cant see 
anywhere in the terms and conditions it says MCE will be responsible for keeping Mr K 
updated after a referral is made. It would have been MCEs responsibility for dealing with the 
repairs to Mr Ks motorcycle and keeping him updated had Mr K chosen to claim against his 
policy  but Mr K didnt choose this option. So, I dont think MCE have acted unreasonably 
as I cant say they were responsible to keep Mr K updated on progress.   
Mr K says, as a paying customer of MCE, his contractual relationship is with MCE and not 
company F. And, he says, while company F are a separate company, they are still an agent 
of MCE. I accept the referral has been made through MCE but that doesnt then make them 
responsible for any errors on the part of company F. I do understand why Mr K feels 
company F are MCEs agent, but once a referral has been made its likely a separate 
customer relationship then exists between Mr K and company F. Its different where a claim 
is made against a policy and an insurer instructs an agent to look at damage to a vehicle. In 
those cases, there might well be an argument for saying the insurer should be held 
responsible for any errors by that agent who has been instructed by them. But in this case, 
this isnt a claim against the policy and Mr Ks case has been referred to a completely 
separate company to handle a litigation claim. 
I understand Mr K is concerned about what he feels is a lack of information from MCE to 
allow him to make an informed decision. He feels MCE shouldve told him that choosing 
company F might mean a year long delay without any communication pathway into MCE or 
company F. Mr K says, because of this, MCE havent treated him fairly. I can understand 
why Mr K is upset by the events which have occurred but I cant say there has been an error 
by MCE here. I havent seen any information which shows MCE would have been aware 
there was likely to be delays in progressing Mr Ks claim or that company F wouldnt have 
kept him updated. As mentioned above, MCEs involvement ended at the point they referred 
the claim. MCE say a referral was sent to company F the same day Mr K reported the 
accident. I can see MCE, when responding to Mr Ks complaints, do again offer him the 
option of pursuing a claim against his policy  and I cant see Mr K has asked MCE to do 
this. So, I cant say MCE have been unreasonable here. 
I can see Mr K says he hasnt received the £100 offered by MCE. He says this is for 
incorrect information given to him during one call but doesnt reflect the impact on him of 
having to make multiple calls over several months. He says he was told MCE couldnt assist 
or disconnected after being on hold. I do understand Mr Ks frustration at what he perceives 
as a lack of interest and concern shown by MCE. But, I dont think MCE were being 
unhelpful here. They have explained, given that Mr K wasnt making a claim against his 
policy, they only needed to record that an accident had taken place. So, I cant see MCE 
wouldve had any updates for Mr K as the case was with company F.        
I cant see we have obtained a record of the calls Mr K has made to MCE but I dont doubt 
he has made several calls to find out what was happening. I do recognise it will have been 
frustrating if calls were disconnected after being on hold or whilst trying to transfer Mr K to 
company F. But, I cant say MCE have deliberately disconnected calls. And, even if those 
calls had been answered by MCE, I cant say they wouldve been in a position to provide an 
update to Mr K as they werent handling his claim. 
MCE do accept they got things wrong when Mr K wanted to raise a complaint about their 
service and was told they couldnt record a complaint for him. I think its right that MCE compensate Mr K and I think the £100 they have offered is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Mr K was left frustrated at not being able to raise a complaint at the time. 
And, while this is an error by MCE, I cant see this has had a wider impact. I say this 
because Mr Ks complaints were later logged and his complaints were addressed about 
three months after he was told MCE couldnt record a complaint for him. So, I think the 
impact on Mr K was over a limited period of time.   
My final decision
MCE Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 compensation to Mr K to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that MCE Insurance Limited should pay Mr K £100, if they havent done so 
already.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman