DRN-3884538
The complaint
This complaint is about outstanding arrears on a repayment mortgage and three Home
Improvement Loans Mrs H and Mr C hold with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). Mrs H
also says Barclays continue to contact and refer to Mr C even though shes explained she
pays for the mortgage and Home Loans by herself. Mrs H is also unhappy with how shes
been treated by Barclays.
What happened
In April 2020, during the coronavirus, Covid-19 pandemic (the pandemic), Mrs H requested
a payment deferral. Barclays granted this from March 2020 to May 2020 and from June 2020
to August 2020. But Mrs H continued having some financial concerns after this, so, she
asked if she could make interest-only contributions for a period of six-months in June 2021.
This was also granted, and the agreement started in July 2021.
Towards the end of the agreement, Mrs H was asked to repay the outstanding balance that
had accrued during the interest-only period. Mrs H says, at the time it was arranged, she
was led to believe the outstanding amount would be added to the overall mortgage balance
 the same as the pandemic related payment deferrals shed had previously. Mrs H says she
wasnt aware shed be expected to pay the outstanding amount back immediately, so she
feels shes being chased for arrears unfairly.
Mrs H has also complained that she asked Barclays to make her the main correspondent as
she is the one making payments and Mr C is now a lodger. Mrs H says Barclays continues
to contact Mr C instead of her and addressed letters to Mr C before her for some time after
she asked it not to. In addition, Mrs H says she has been treated poorly including being
laughed at on the phone in relation to her understanding of the interest being added to the
overall mortgage.
Barclays looked into Mrs Hs concerns and apologised for how it handled her request to
correspond with her only. It offered Mrs H £50 to compensate her because, it said, she
should have been told Barclays would continue corresponding with Mr C. Barclays explained
that as Mr C remains on the mortgage, it would need to inform him of any changes as he is
still responsible for the mortgage. Barclays said, since Mrs H had specifically asked it to stop
corresponding with Mr C, it should have explained why it couldnt do this sooner.
Our investigator considered Mrs Hs concerns but didnt find that Barclays had done anything
wrong. As Mrs H remained unhappy, the complaint was referred to me to consider. I issued 
a provisional decision on 8 December 2022. Heres an extract of what I said:
Its expected that consumers are treated fairly under the Mortgage and Home Finance
Conduct of Business. And in addition to this, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) gave
additional advice to businesses about how to treat customers who struggled to meet their
CMPs during the pandemic.
Looking into what happened, Mrs H and Mr C were granted six payment deferrals in line with
the recommendations made by the FCA. Following this, Barclays agreed Mrs H could pay
the interest only element of her CMPs for a period of six-months. This meant Barclays would
continue to charge the normal CMP amount but would accept that Mrs H was only paying
the interest. This was agreed for July 2021 through to December 2021 and was separate
from the previous pandemic related agreement.
Mrs H says she and Mr C were not advised at any point during the set-up of the agreement
that the outstanding amounts would be due at the end. Mrs H says they were both left with
the impression the outstanding amounts would be added to the balance of the mortgage and
repaid over its term  the same as the pandemic deferral payments. Mrs H says there
wouldnt have been any benefit to her taking the interest-only period otherwise and the
whole thing has been very stressful. Not least because theyve been receiving letters, texts,
emails, and phone calls chasing the outstanding debt and Mrs H was concerned she was
told her home may be repossessed.
Ive listened to the call Mrs H had with Barclays to agree to the six-month interest only
period. During the call, Mrs H was made aware the agreement would have an impact on
both her and Mr Cs credit files. That the difference in the CMPs and the reduced monthly
amounts would accrue as arrears and would need to be repaid when the agreement came to
an end in six months time. Barclays also confirmed that this meant the account would incur
more interest. Following the call, a letter was sent to Mrs H and Mr C dated 21 June 2021
that confirmed:
The difference between the agreed reduced payments and your contractual monthly
payments will accrue as arrears. Upon expiry of this agreement you will need to contact us
to agree to an arrangement for repayment of any arrears that have accrued.
Considering this, Im satisfied Barclays did inform Mrs H the outstanding sum would be due
once the agreement came to an end  both on the phone and by letter. I think the
information was presented clearly and I didnt hear or see anything else that could have
given Mrs H the wrong impression about that. So, while I know this will be disappointing for
Mrs H, I dont intend to uphold this part of her complaint.
Mrs H has raised concerns about the impact on her and Mr Cs credit files. Looking into this
further, Ive found that Barclays didnt report any arrears when Mrs H and Mr C were
deferring their payments in line with the FCAs pandemic guidance. But Barclays has a duty
to report accurate information to credit reference agencies and Mrs H and Mr C were
informed the six-month interest only period would affect their credit files. They also didnt
repay the amount they owed when the agreement ended. So, Barclays is obliged to report
those arrears and in the circumstances, I cant tell it not to.
Ive gone on to think about the concerns Mrs H has raised in relation to her request to make
her the main correspondent for the mortgage. Mrs H feels, as she is the one making
payments, and Mr C is now a lodger, Barclays should correspond with her primarily. Ive
thought about this carefully and I agree with Barclays that at times it will have to discuss the
account with Mr C given he is still named on the mortgage, particularly when any changes
are being made such as when the interest-only period was requested. And Mrs H seems to
accept this herself. That said, I dont think Barclays response fully addresses Mrs Hs
concerns.Mrs H has specifically asked for letters to be addressed to her first, then follow with Mr Cs
name. Ive seen several letters that have been sent to Mrs H and Mr C and Ive seen
instances of both versions. Interestingly, Mrs H was named first on correspondence Ive
seen dated 2015 and 2017. But more recent correspondence addresses Mr C first then
Mrs H. So, it would appear Barclays has the ability to address Mrs H first and then Mr C. Its
not clear why the letters changed and perhaps there is a reason for it. But, if Barclays is able
to address Mrs H on correspondence first, then I think it should do this going forward.
Mrs H says there have been instances when shes spoken to Barclays about the account,
and Barclays has returned the call to Mr C instead of her, despite Mrs H having initiated
contact. And looking at Barclays records, I agree there have likely been instances of
Barclays contacting Mr C, when it probably should have contacted Mrs H first.
Ive seen call notes that confirm Mrs H was unhappy because shed requested a call back
concerning payment deferrals during the pandemic, but the call was returned to Mr C instead
of her. A note was added not long after that said, PLEASE SPEAK TO MRS ONLY. But it
appears this has happened again since, for example, on 25 October 2021, Barclays called
Mr C to discuss the account even though Mrs H had called to discuss the same issues
earlier the same month and appeared to have been in ongoing discussions with Barclays
around that time.
So, while Barclays may, on occasion, need further information or consent from Mr C, I think
its reasonable for Mrs H to have expected Barclays to call her back directly based on her
ongoing discussions with Barclays. And I can see why Mrs H would be frustrated by this.
Thats not to say Barclays cant contact Mr C  it can. And when routine contact is made, for
example, when arrears are chased automatically, its possible Barclays will still contact Mr C
if his number remains on the account. I cant ask Barclays to change its system in terms of
that. But when there is clearly an ongoing discussion with one party, I think it would be
appropriate to go back to that party in some instances, particularly given the warnings
already recorded on the account.
I dont think Barclays response goes far enough to address these issues given Mrs H has
raised the problem several times in the calls Ive listened to. So, I think Barclays should
compensate Mrs H with £150 to recognise the additional stress and inconvenience this has
caused her on top of the £50 it has already offered.
Finally, Mrs H complained about how shes been treated by Barclays throughout these
issues. Mrs H says shes already accepted settlements for the complaints she made in
relation to some of those issues. And she understands were unable to consider any issues
that have already been resolved. But It does appear Mrs H feels there have been further
instances of poor service since her previous complaints and we are able to consider any
examples of this that didnt form part of her previous complaints.
Our investigator asked Mrs H to provide more information about when she felt she was
treated poorly by Barclays, for example, she had mentioned an incident when she says
Barclays representative laughed at her on the phone. But Mrs H hasnt provided any further
information, to confirm precisely what or when incidents happened. Nevertheless, we asked
Barclays to send us recordings of all phone calls between October 2021 and April 2022.Having listened to the calls provided, I havent heard any inappropriate behaviour from
Barclays representatives, and I found the call handlers patient and understanding
considering Mrs H was clearly very frustrated at times. Mrs H has acknowledged that she
spoke to some very compassionate and understanding people during her complaints and
said this to some of the call handlers as well. Its possible the specific call Mrs H mentioned
she was unhappy with was unavailable. But from the calls Ive listened to, around the time
the call would have occurred, I havent found enough evidence to uphold this part of Mrs Hs
complaint.
In summary, while I empathize with Mrs Hs situation, she still needs to settle the arrears
accrued over the interest only period. I appreciate there have been several other problems
prior to the interest only agreement ending, but I think Barclays attempted to work with Mrs H
to resolve the outstanding arrears, and Im satisfied Barclays has treated Mrs H and Mr C
fairly in terms of that. So, Mrs H should contact Barclays to arrange a suitable repayment
plan if she wants to resolve those issues.
I looked into Mrs Hs concerns about how she was treated by Barclays representatives, but I
didnt find enough evidence to support what shes said. The call handlers didnt say anything
inappropriate or behave inappropriately during the calls I listened to. But, I have seen at 
least one instance of Barclays contacting Mr C when I think it would have been reasonable 
for it to have contacted Mrs H instead. And I think Barclays could do more to accommodate 
Mrs Hs request, such as putting her name first, before Mr Cs on written correspondence. 
So, under the circumstances, I think Barclays should compensate Mrs H with £150 for the 
stress and inconvenience caused. I recommend this award in addition to the £50 Barclays 
has already offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think part of Mrs H and Mr Cs complaint should be upheld.
Barclays responded to my provisional decision and said it would pay the £50 it previously 
offered as well as compensation for £150.00 for the distress and inconvenience caused in 
relation to the ongoing correspondence issues. But, it said it would be unable to amend the 
letters it issues to include only Mrs H. It said the mortgage accounts are joint, so any letters 
issued would be to both. 
Ive thought about what Barclays has said, but I didnt ask for Mr C not to be included in 
letters at all. I asked that Mrs H should be addressed first, followed by Mr C when possible. 
For example, letters should be addressed to Mrs H and Mr C, rather than Mr C and Mrs H. I 
explained that on some correspondence I have seen that this has been done previously, so 
Im satisfied Barclays should be able to make that adjustment going forward. 
Mrs H and Mr C havent responded to the decision, so I havent found any reason to change 
my findings as set out above in my provisional decision.Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by:
Paying the £50 it offered in its final response letter.
Paying £150 for the distress and inconvenience Mrs H and Mr C have experienced in 
relation to ongoing correspondence issues.
Amend letters so Mrs H is named first, before Mr C, if possible.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman