DRN-3618645
The complaint
Miss K, who is represented by a third party, complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay), trading 
as Aqua, irresponsibly granted her a credit card that she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss K entered into an agreement with NewDay to have access to credit with an Aqua credit 
card account. The account was opened in July 2017 with a credit limit of £250. There 
followed four credit limit increases, between January 2018 and August 2019, when the credit 
limit was increased from £800 to £3,300. 
Miss K says that NewDay didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened the  
account. She says if it had, it would have seen that it wasnt affordable for her as she was 
already struggling financially and having the card worsened her financial position. 
Our adjudicator said that NewDay shouldnt have increased Miss Ks credit limit in 
August 2019 as by that point its likely that the account was no longer affordable for her.  
As NewDay hasnt responded to our adjudicators finding, the complaint has come to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Account opening
The credit check NewDay completed looked into Miss Ks financial circumstances, using 
information obtained from credit reference agencies. New Day also relied on information 
Miss K gave on her application. Miss K said she had an annual income of around £21,000. 
There was no evidence of Miss K having any defaults, payment arrangements or arrears 
elsewhere, although the checks showed she had around £300 in outstanding unsecured 
credit. However, just because it looks as if NewDay carried out proportionate checks, it 
doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the 
evidence and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence NewDay gathered. Having done so Im satisfied 
that the opening checks showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable to Miss K. I 
say this because, given the available information about her income and debt, it was likely 
that the relatively modest opening credit limit of £250 would be affordable for her. I therefore 
dont think New Day acted unfairly when approving the finance application.
first, second and third credit limit increases
The initial £250 opening credit limit was increased three times in 2018: to £800 in January, to 
£1,550 in July and then to £2,300 in October.
I agree with our adjudicator that Miss Ks financial situation hadnt changed materially by 
January 2018, and she appears to have been managing her account reasonably well. 
For the other two increases in July and October 2018, I agree that it would have been 
proportionate for NewDay to have taken steps to find out more about any changes to 
Miss Ks income also to have checked her level of committed expenditure and living costs. I 
say this given that Miss K was using the card to take cash advances and that the frequency 
of those advances was steadily increasing during this time. Ive also seen that she had 
incurred a late payment fee shortly before the October 2018 increase. But having also seen 
Miss Ks credit report, I agree that on balance theres enough evidence to suggest that these 
increases were likely affordable for Miss K. 
Fourth credit limit increase
In August 2019 NewDay increased Miss Ks credit limit to £3,300. Again, I think it would 
have been proportionate for NewDay to have checked Ms Ks income and to have taken 
steps to find out more about Miss Ks committed expenditure and living costs. I say this 
having seen that Miss K was continuing to make regular use of the cash withdrawal facility. 
But also, and as noted by our adjudicator, Miss K took out a loan with NewDay at around this 
time which appears to have been used to pay off the existing balance on her card, only to 
then start building up a substantial balance once again. This is something I would have 
expected NewDay to be aware of. Since the last credit limit increase Ms Ks unsecured debt 
had also quadrupled. Ive also seen that in July 2019 Ms K had taken out a car loan that was 
due to repaid over 60 months  which is a significant additional financial commitment to have 
taken on. 
Taking all of these issues into account, I agree with our adjudicator that NewDay ought not 
to have increased Miss Ks credit limit after it gave her the increase to £3,300 in August 
2019. 
Putting things right  what NewDay needs to do
NewDay shouldnt have increased Miss Ks credit limit from £2,300 to £3,300 in 
August 2019. NewDay therefore needs to do the following: 
Rework Miss Ks account to ensure that all interest and charges should be 
removed from the account for balances over £2,300, being the previous credit limit 
increase. All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made, NewDay should contact Miss K to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for the account. Once Miss K has repaid the outstanding balance, 
it should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ks credit file from 22 
August 2019 onwards. 
ORIf the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss K, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. NewDay should also remove any adverse information from Miss Ks 
credit file from 22 August 2019.
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay 
must give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I therefore partially uphold this complaint and require NewDay Ltd to pay compensation as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman