DRN-3994399
The complaint
Mr S says Strategic Solutions Financial Services (SSFC) failed to deliver the ongoing 
advisory service that he paid for, following its initial advice in October 2018 and the initial 
transaction of transferring his Defined Benefits (DB) pension to a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). He seeks recovery of the fees he paid. He mainly alleges the following:
SSFCs failure to assist him with the transfer of another pension (the Standard Life 
(SL) pension) into the SIPP, despite his email in October 2018 requesting this.
No contact and no service from SSFC between January 2019 (when his SIPP was 
set up) and October 2020  no annual face to face or telephone review service; 
SSFC claims a telephone review happened in October 2019, he does not recall it and 
he did not receive the review report claimed to have been sent to him in November 
2019; and SSFC also failed to provide him with advice during the onset of COVID, 
did not give him an up to date valuation of his investments, failed to discuss with him 
the quarterly performance reports from the SIPPs Investment Manager (IM) and 
failed to discuss, with him, an increase in the IMs fees around August 2019. 
SSFC disputes the complaint.
What happened
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) for this complaint on 30 January 2023. 
In the PD I summarised the chronology of events and our investigation as follows  
Chronology of Key Events
August to October 2018  Mr S approached SSFC in August by email and enquired 
into its services, specifically for advice on transferring his DB pension. In September 
both parties met, further emails were exchanged and Mr S completed (and returned) 
the risk and pension transfer forms he had been given. In October SSFC presented a 
report of its transfer recommendation to Mr S. He agreed with the recommendation, 
signed SSFCs client agreement (for its initial advisory service and its ongoing 
Wealth Development (WD) service) and completed the relevant SIPP application 
forms. The transfer application and process began. SSFC says it confirmed, on 19 
October, that the transfer had been secured. On 22 October Mr S emailed SSFC, he 
referred to the SL pension and to his wish to transfer it into the SIPP.
January 2019  SSFC confirmed to Mr S, on 5 January, that the SIPP had been set 
up. He says he sent a valuation for his SL pension to SSFC in this month. SSFC 
says the SL pension was briefly discussed with him and that it agreed to address it in 
the annual review later in 2019.
October and November 2019  SSFC says it telephoned Mr S on 2 October to 
arrange the annual review meeting, but he opted to discuss the review over the 
telephone so the review proceeded. It says the SL pension was not discussed and 
that it then sent him the review report on 11 November. 
[However, there are submissions from SSFC which state the opposite, and a 
document that appears to be its handwritten notes of the telephone meeting refers to 
the SL pension and says both parties agreed to discuss it further at the next review.] 
Mr S disputes SSFCs claims about the telephone call, the review and the report.
November and December 2020  In November, SSFC emailed Mr S to arrange the 
2020 review meeting. It followed this with a handwritten Christmas card to him in 
December, from the adviser, in which reference was also made to a review. 
Thereafter, on 13 December, Mr S terminated SSFCs service.
Our Investigation
One of our investigators looked into the case and concluded it should be upheld, on the 
basis that SSFC failed to provide the WD service to Mr S and that it should therefore refund 
the fees it received from him between 2019 and 2020, and it should pay him £100 for the 
inconvenience the matter has caused him. 
He mainly found that  there is evidence the SL pension was discussed in September 2018 
and that Mr S reminded SSFC of it in October 2018; his email of 22 October 2018 made 
clear that he wanted to transfer it and that he wanted SSFC to start that process, yet it 
unreasonably failed to respond to that email and failed to consider the transfer (and assess 
its suitability) as part of its review; the SL pension was part of the overall WD service Mr S 
expected; the handwritten notes for the 2 October 2019 call are disputed and there is no 
other evidence that says Mr S abandoned this transfer pursuit or that SSFC assessed its 
suitability; the November 2019 report is also disputed and it is reasonable to expect that 
SSFC should have followed up any such report with a discussion of its contents; there is 
evidence in the advisers December 2020 Christmas card that he had not been as proactive 
as he would have liked and that he wanted to address that; it is also noteworthy that SSFC 
failed to address the IMs fee increase; overall and for these reasons SSFC failed to deliver 
the WD service Mr S was entitled to.
The investigator then responded to Mr S queries about how the recommended 
compensation should be paid to him. 
SSFC stands by its submissions in the case. It disputes the investigators conclusions and 
has asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said its contracted work for Mr S was based only 
on the DB pension to SIPP transfer (and then on reviewing the SIPP thereafter), that the SL 
pension was never a part of this work and that there was never a separate agreement to 
execute another pension transfer. It referred to the SL pension being an afterthought by     
Mr S, with no urgency, it repeated that it was not mentioned in the October 2019 telephone 
review and it argued that if moving the pension was a priority for him he ought to have 
notified SSFC of that (but did not) or appointed another adviser at the time. In terms of 
service to him, it said he received at least 14 contacts from SSFC between October 2018 
and December 2020 (only two of which he initiated, before his complaint), that this exceeded 
his WD service entitlement and that if he wanted more service and unlimited adviser access 
he could have selected its Wealth Optimisation (WO) service. It provided us with digital (MS 
Word) evidence that the review report (dated 11 November 2019) was created on 8 
November 2019 and asserted that it was sent to Mr S.
My provisional findings and conclusions were  
In cases like Mr S a claim for a full refund of fees usually rests upon being able to show, on balance, that a firm either did not provide the service for which the fees were paid or that any 
part of the service provided fell significantly or substantially short of what its client was 
entitled to receive. This usually creates grounds to consider, depending on the 
circumstances, a full refund of fees. It is arguably neither fair nor reasonable to make such 
an award where a firm has either fully provided the service agreed with the client or has 
done so in the main.
Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded that SSFC failed to deliver the WD service that 
Mr S paid for. His expectations appear to have been misguided  in terms of viewing the 
service wider than it actually was  but I do not find that SSFC misled him in this respect. 
Indeed, there is evidence that the services remit was reasonably clear. I acknowledge the 
alleged October 2019 telephone review meeting is disputed. That has led me to make a 
judgment call, on the balance of available evidence and probabilities, as to whether (or not) it 
happened  and as to whether (or not) the review report was sent to Mr S. I find, on balance, 
that the telephone meeting happened (even if Mr S does not recall it) and that the review 
report was issued to Mr S (though I understand that he says he did not receive it). 
I set out my reasoning as follows:
The declaration and confirmation of understanding for SSFCs 2018 recommendation 
report were signed by Mr S on 12 October 2018.
The contents of the 2018 report are insightful. They stand as reliable evidence 
because they were read, understood and agreed by Mr S. Relevant to the present 
complaint, the contents included  confirmation that only a review of the DB pension 
was the subject matter for SSFC to address (the SL pension was mentioned as part 
of Mr S profile/background, but not as a matter for treatment); detailed analysis and 
recommendations that featured the DB pension; a conclusion that confirmed the 
advice to transfer the DB pension to the SIPP; and confirmation that the agreed 0.5% 
ongoing service fee was expressly calculated upon only the value of the DB pension 
after deduction of SSFCs initial fee (and not on any value from the SL pension). The 
fees section of the service agreement signed by Mr S (also on 12 October) sets out, 
for the ongoing fee, the same monetary amount used in the report, and based on 
0.5% of the DB pensions net value.
The above shows that both SSFCs initial and ongoing services related only to the 
DB pensions transfer to the SIPP, and ongoing servicing of the SIPP (as it was upon 
that transfer). A refund of ongoing fees for ongoing servicing of the SL pension (or 
connected to the SL pension) would be unreasonable given that the ongoing fees 
that were paid did not even include that pension or any element of its value. The fees 
were based only on the DB pensions value. No fee was paid for advice on or 
ongoing servicing of/related to the SL pension. SSFC would have had to be engaged 
separately for that, which Mr S did not do.
There is also evidence of SSFCs services and fee schedule document, which Mr S 
signed declaration confirmed he received. In it, the WD service is described as 
consisting of an annual face to face or telephone review (annually reviewing financial 
goals, objectives, risk profile and existing investments), up to date valuation of 
current investments, cash flow modelling (assessing impacts of key events on a 
clients plans), implementation of agreed changes, a report setting out the review and 
all these aspects, and access to SSFCs client team to deal with ad hoc queries. The 
WO service is also described in this document and it was wider, including two 
reviews/review meetings per year and unlimited adviser access.Mr S was initially advised in October 2018 and he terminated SSFCs service in 
December 2020, so he was entitled to two annual reviews (one in or around October 
2019 and one in or around October 2020). Record of the October 2019 telephone 
review that SSFC has referred to is not ideal. It is a handwritten note on non-headed 
paper. I have considered its contents alongside those of the November 2019 review 
report that SSFC also refers to. On balance, I am satisfied with the electronic 
evidence that the report was created on 8 November 2019 and, from that, I consider 
it more likely (than not) that it was sent to Mr S on 11 November 2019. It is possible 
he did not receive it, but I cannot determine that negative and I would not hold SSFC 
responsible for postal delivery. Its obligation was to issue the report. I make no 
finding that the handwritten note was created on 2 October 2019 because I do not 
have evidence to determine that. However, the report refers to valuation of the SIPP 
on 2 October 2019, so I consider it reliable that the review/meeting the report refers 
to happened on 2 October 2019. 
It is not disputed that SSFC sought to arrange the 2020 review meeting in November 
that year. It appears that Mr did not respond at the time and I have noted his view 
that SSFC had an ulterior motive for the review invitation  or that it was prompted to 
send it by a separate matter that arose at the time. Regardless of its motive, the facts 
remain that it sought to arrange the 2020 review and that Mr S then terminated its 
service soon thereafter, without accepting the review invitation. I therefore find no 
wrongdoing by SSFC in terms of the WD services requirement for annual review 
meetings with Mr S. It conducted one in 2019 and it offered one in 2020 (which Mr S 
did not accept).
The 2019 report updated the valuation of the SIPP and reviewed its suitability. It 
reviewed and confirmed no change in Mr S personal and investor profiles (including 
his circumstances, objectives and risk profile). It is true that it fails to mention or 
address the IMs fee increase. I am not satisfied that I have enough evidence to 
conclude this was a failure in the ongoing service. If the increase was an issue for  
Mr S, it is arguable that he would have raised it at the time. There is no record that he 
did and he does not appear to claim that he did. Had he raised it I would have 
expected SSFC to address it, and omission of that from the report would potentially 
be wrong. 
I acknowledge the counter argument that SSFC did not need to be prompted and that 
it ought to have advised on the fee increase given it was a change that affected the 
SIPP. Whilst, I am not quite satisfied with available evidence that it was definitely 
aware of the increase at the time, I agree that such a change should probably have 
prompted its review/advice. However, that alone does not automatically mean there 
was an ongoing service failure, and I am not persuaded there is enough to show that 
there was. All main aspects relevant to the review (as defined and agreed), but for 
the IMs fee increase, were reviewed. Between August 2019 and December 2020 it 
appears that the fee increase was never raised, as a problem, by Mr S despite his 
awareness of it. I do not suggest that he was wholly responsible to raise it, but I do 
find that this meant it was not something he sought advice for  which calls into 
question whether (or not) its omission from the report meant a service failure to him. 
There were no changes agreed in 2019, so none were due for implementation. I have 
not seen evidence of key events in 2019, relevant to Mr S SIPP, which required an 
impact assessment. The onset of the pandemic in 2020 would probably have 
matched the description of key events. However, as I said above, SSFCs review 
offer in 2020 was made but Mr S did not accept it. There is therefore no basis to 
consider an alleged review service failure, in this respect or in other respects, in 2020.
Mr S does not claim he was unable to access SSFCs client team for ad hoc 
enquiries.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I do not consider that SSFC failed to 
deliver the WD service (as defined and as agreed) to Mr S.
I have considered the investigators proposal to award Mr S £100 for the inconvenience 
caused to him. I share the same view, but it is important to make clear the grounds on which 
I consider this award should be made. SSFC was not obliged to cater for the SL pension. 
However, Mr S enquired about it in October 2018 and it appears that SSFC ignored that 
enquiry, up to the discussion both parties had in January 2019. That discussion gave Mr S 
SSFCs attention to his enquiry, but it ought to have given him that attention in October 
2018, through an emailed response, at least. For a newly onboarded client, I expect there 
would have been a degree of upset on his part, between October 2018 and January 2019, 
with regards to SSFC seemingly ignoring his enquiry. Even though it had no obligation 
towards the SL pension, responding to Mr S email in a timely manner was a matter of 
general customer service owed to him as a client. SSFC failed to do that. For these reasons 
and for the upset that I have referred to, I consider that Mr S should be paid £100.
Both parties were invited to comment on the PD. Mr S confirmed he had nothing further to 
add. SSFC welcomed the outcome in the PD and it agreed with the £100 award to Mr S. 
However, it expressed concern that the finding upon which the PD made the award carries 
the implication or suggestion of wrongdoing on its part, and that the same applies to the 
notion of the complaint being partly upheld. It says it committed no wrongdoing in the case 
and that the PD, overall, acknowledges that, so it suggested redefining the award as an ex-
gratia payment and reversing the conclusion that the complaint has been partly upheld.
The case was then returned to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, having reviewed the case, and in the absence of comments from the parties 
challenging the PDs core findings on merit, I retain the findings and conclusions in the PD. I 
incorporate those findings and conclusions, as quoted above, into this decision. I 
acknowledge that SSFC objects to the conclusion that the complaint is partly upheld, and to 
how the £100 award to Mr S has been defined. However, as I explain next, I am not 
persuaded to alter either.
It is clear from my findings that I do not consider SSFC committed any wrongdoing in the two 
main issues raised in Mr S complaint. In that context, it is fair to say that Mr S complaint has 
not been upheld. However, this service has an inquisitorial remit for the complaints we 
address, so in some cases, depending on the facts, it can be reasonable for us to look into 
secondary issues that might not have been pleaded in a complaint but nevertheless happen 
to be relevant to it. It is in this context that the complaint has been partly upheld.
SSFC says I have already found that it had no responsibility for the SL pension. That is 
correct, and I retain that finding. The award bears no connection to the SL pension itself. As I 
explained in the PD, it is based on the general level of customer service SSFC owed to Mr S 
as a client at the time of his enquiry (about the pension). The fact that SSFC eventually, after 
a delay, attended to the enquiry supports the view that it knew it owed him a general level of customer service to do so. It is the trouble and upset caused by that delay (which lasted over 
two months) in providing such basic customer service, and the absence of such service 
during the delay, that the award seeks to compensate Mr S for. This, alone, is also the 
reason that the complaint is partly upheld. On balance, I consider it a fair and reasonable 
basis to do so.
Putting things right
I order SSFC to pay Mr S £100 for the trouble and upset caused to him by the isolated 
customer service issue I addressed in the PD, and above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above (and in the PD), I do not uphold the main complaint issues 
submitted by Mr S, but I partly uphold his complaint only with regards to the customer 
service issue addressed above. I order Strategic Solutions Financial Services to pay him 
£100 for the trouble and upset that issue caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman