DRN-3567118
The complaint
Ms F complains about the success fees Claims Helpdesk Limited charged her for pursuing 
claims for mis-sold financial products on her behalf. 
What happened
In mid-2016, Ms F instructed Claims Helpdesk to pursue claims for mis-sold payment 
protection insurance, packaged bank accounts and mortgage products against various 
lenders on her behalf. 
Ms F says her nephew, who was employed by Claims Helpdesk at the time, told her she 
could benefit from a family member scheme. This would result in a reduction of Claims 
Helpdesks fee - from 35% to 25%. She says he told her to write 25% Fee followed by her 
nephews first name on the forms. And this is what she did.
Several of Ms Fs claims were successful. Ms F says she paid the fees Claims Helpdesk 
said were due. However, around five years later Ms F was contacted by a debt collection 
agency about outstanding fees. 
Ms F raised a complaint with Claims Helpdesk. She said she was unhappy that her details 
had been referred to a debt collection agency without her being informed of a request for 
further payment. She said she believed shed already paid in excess of the fees shed 
agreed to. She said shed agreed for Claims Helpdesk to act on her behalf for a reduced fee 
of 25% for family members, not the 35% shed been charged.
Claims Helpdesk said it had previously informed her that it had transferred all outstanding 
invoice balances to the debt collection agency. This meant it couldnt stop any action being 
taken. Claims Helpdesk said Ms F had only partially paid one of the six invoices it had sent 
her for fees in 2016. It told her there was a balance of £820 outstanding.
Claims Helpdesk acknowledged that Ms F had written 25% Fee followed by her nephews 
name on the letters of authority she had signed. But it said it couldnt accept any changes to 
its legal contracts or documents unless agreed by Claims Helpdesk. It said it had no record 
that the fee reduction was agreed by a former staff member or manager who would have 
needed to sign it off. Should a fee change be agreed a new contract would normally be 
posted for signing prior to engagement. It said its fee of 35% plus VAT legally stood.
Ms F asked our service to look into her complaint. Claims Helpdesk told our investigator it 
maintained its position that Ms F was contracted to pay fees of 35% plus VAT. But it was 
willing to write off the balance of the remaining invoice as a gesture of goodwill. Our 
investigator told Ms F that she thought Claims Helpdesks offer was fair.
Ms F disagreed with our investigators view. She didnt think writing off the balance was 
enough to put things right. Ms F felt she should also be reimbursed for what she believed 
shed overpaid. She said she understood there to be a verbal contract with Claims Helpdesk 
that she would pay fees of 25%. She saw this as a failure of Claims Helpdesks internal 
processes. She disputed that Claims Helpdesk had sent her invoices for the fees. She also 
commented that Claims Helpdesk had given incorrect information about referring her 
complaint. 
Ms F provided a signed statement from her nephew confirming what hed told her about the 
family discount at the time. Our investigator shared this with Claims Helpdesk, but it said this 
didnt make a difference to its position. It had agreed to write off the outstanding debt as a 
gesture of goodwill and didnt believe it needed to take any further action.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 May 2022 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Ms Fs complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Ms Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Claims Helpdesk has acknowledged that it provided a discount for family members of its 
staff. It says its process was for the agent to tick friends and family when taking the sale 
and the terms on the LOA would change from 35% plus VAT to 25% plus VAT. The change 
would also need to be agreed by a supervisor.
I havent seen any documentation to show that this was Claims Helpdesks process.  Its 
unclear if Ms Fs nephew was aware of or followed the process correctly. But Claims 
Helpdesk hasnt disputed that Ms Fs nephew worked for Claims Helpdesk at the time she 
engaged its services. And I think it was fair for Ms F to rely on the information she was given 
by one of Claims Helpdesks employees.
Ms Fs nephew has recently provided a statement confirming that he told her to write 25% 
Fee followed by his first name on the documents she signed in order to engage Claims 
Helpdesks services at the reduced rate. He says he was told by one of Claims Helpdesks 
managers that two family members would qualify for this discount. But even without her 
nephews statement, I think its unlikely that Ms F would have written what she did on the 
forms if she hadnt been told to do so. 
Claims Helpdesk says its Letter of Authority (LOA) contracts are scanned on in an 
automated process with very little human intervention. But the copies of the LOAs that 
Claims Helpdesk has provided show that 25% Fee  (nephews first name) is clearly 
handwritten near Ms Fs signature. And I would have expected Claims Helpdesk to have at 
least reviewed the pages Ms F had signed to make sure it had authority to progress the 
claims on her behalf. So, I think Claims Helpdesk should have noticed what Ms F had written 
on the forms and queried it if it was unsure why it was there. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that Ms F engaged Claims Helpdesks services with 
the understanding that she would be charged a fee of 25% plus VAT for any successful 
claims. I appreciate Claims Helpdesk believes that its not legally bound by the manual 
change Ms F made to the LOAs that she signed, but these were the documents it used to go 
ahead and progress her claims. Claims Helpdesk has also commented that it cant be held 
accountable for Ms F manually entering the friends and family fee because this is outside 
company procedure and policy. But I havent seen anything to show that Ms F would have 
been aware of what Claims Helpdesks company policy regarding the family discount was. 
So, I dont think it would be fair for Ms F to be disadvantaged if it wasnt followed.Having considered what Ive seen so far, I dont think it was fair for Claims Helpdesk to have 
charged Ms F its usual fee of 35% plus VAT for her successful claims. Im satisfied that Ms F 
engaged Claims Helpdesks services under the understanding that she would be charged 
25% plus VAT and also made this clear on the paperwork she signed. So, Im persuaded 
that Claims Helpdesk was only entitled to charge her fees of 25% plus VAT.
Ms F has also raised concerns about not receiving certain correspondence from Claims 
Helpdesk, including invoices for the fees in 2016. Ms F says she only received letters stating 
that the claims had been won and she should pay the fee within 14 days without stating the 
amount. She says she paid the amounts she was told to pay over the phone.
Given the length of time thats passed, its understandable that Ms F might not remember 
receiving the invoices. Its also possible that she didnt receive them. But, the success letters 
from Claims Helpdesk say: an invoice for our fee will follow in due course. And Claims 
Helpdesk has provided copies of the invoices which are correctly addressed. So, I think 
Claims Helpdesk is likely to have sent the invoices to Ms F at the time.
I set out what I intended to direct Claims Helpdesk to do to put things right. And I gave both 
parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to 
consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Ms F said she was happy with the findings Id reached in my provisional decision.
Claims Helpdesk said it didnt accept what Id said in my provisional decision and was 
withdrawing its offer to write off the outstanding balance. It made several further comments, 
which Ive addressed below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all of Claims Helpdesks points, but these havent made a difference to the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Claims Helpdesk has commented that a contract is binding unless changes have been 
agreed to by the service provider prior to the work thats been undertaken. However, Im 
satisfied that Ms F made it clear on the LOAs that she was agreeing for Claims Helpdesk to 
carry out the work in return for a success fee of 25%. As Claims Helpdesk went ahead and 
carried out the work, I think its reasonable for Ms F to have concluded that it was agreeing 
to do this for the reduced fee. 
Claims Helpdesk has commented that its unreasonable for me to expect a procedure for 
family and friends to be applied if I believe there is no written evidence of one. To be clear, I 
havent said that I believe there is no written evidence of a procedure for friends and family. I 
said that I hadnt seen any documentation to show what Claims Helpdesk has told us its 
process was. 
Claims Helpdesk has acknowledged that there was a friends and family discount, which 
meant a reduction in its fee from 35% to 25% (plus VAT). It previously argued that Ms F 
hadnt followed its process correctly.  However, Ms F didnt work for Claims Helpdesk so I 
wouldnt expect her to be aware of its internal processes. Im persuaded that she acted on the information that she was given by one of Claims Helpdesks employees at the time and 
engaged its services with the understanding shed be charged fees of 25% plus VAT.
Claims Helpdesk appears to be questioning the credibility of the statement from Ms Fs 
nephew by saying he left the business following a dispute with the manager referenced in his 
statement. However, as I said in my provisional decision, even without her nephews 
statement, I think its unlikely that Ms F would have written what she did on the forms if she 
hadnt been told to do so. So, even if I was to disregard Ms Fs nephews statement, it 
wouldnt make a difference to the conclusions Ive reached.
Claims Helpdesk has commented that an additional information box would have been 
spotted by its software system upon scanning (had it been completed) to alert management. 
However, its unclear why Claims Helpdesk thinks this is relevant to the outcome of this 
complaint.
Having considered all of Claims Helpdesks points, I remain of the opinion that it is only 
entitled to charge Ms F success fees of 25% plus VAT.
I appreciate Claims Helpdesk doesnt think its fair that it should have to pay 8% per annum 
interest on the amount Ms F has overpaid. It says she should have queried the invoices at 
the time. However, this doesnt take away from the fact that I believe Ms F was overcharged 
by Claims Helpdesk in the first place. As a result, Ms F has been deprived of the use of the 
money shed overpaid. So, I think its fair for Claims Helpdesk to compensate her for this by 
paying interest on it.
Putting things right
Claims Helpdesk should:
Recalculate its fees for all of Ms Fs successful claims at 25% plus VAT
Subtract the above from the total amount Ms F has paid Claims Helpdesk 
Refund Ms F anything shes overpaid with 8% per annum simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they arose until the date of settlement.*
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Claims Helpdesk to deduct tax from this interest. Claims Helpdesk 
should give Ms F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Fs complaint and direct Claims Helpdesk 
Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman