DRN-3780997
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a bond by Basset & Gold Plc (B&G Plc). He says, in 
summary, that the bond was unsuitable for retail customers, the marketing materials were 
misleading, and the firms didnt act in consumers best interests. He says he was led to 
believe the bond was fully asset backed, relatively low risk and diversified. 
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr B invested in a B&G Plc three-year Year Fixed Monthly Income IFISA Bond in July 2017. 
Sales of this bond were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate business 
from B&G Plc, the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the 
bond, through a website it operated. And it was responsible for advertising and marketing 
the bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 
17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr Bs investment in the bond
Mr B visited BG Ltds website in June 2017 and applied for the bond via the website in 
July 2017. 
Mr B says he had limited investment experience and a low attitude to risk. He says he was 
looking for an investment that was fully asset backed and diversified and that past 
performance was important to him. 
I have been supplied with some call recordings between Mr B and BG Ltd. The calls were 
either after the sale of the bond took place or not material to the outcome of this complaint, 
so Ive not relied on them when reaching my findings.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr B 
has not had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
Mr B has said he remembers applying for the bond online and Im satisfied that is likely what 
happened. 
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mr B underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet the 
rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Mr B 
was categorised as a high net worth investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mr Bs complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said Mr B had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions once Mr Bs 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
Mr B met the requirements of a high net worth investor.
The application process in terms of the appropriateness of the bond for him was 
inconsistent with the FCAs rules or guidance, and didnt gather sufficient information 
to comply with the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr B wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr B to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively 
and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate 
Mr B for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Mr B was properly categorised as a high net worth investor.
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for Gallium 
to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and experience of 
the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr B made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and did 
not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the investment regardless. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, 
on behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) 
are relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
The bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who it could 
be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential 
investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I have 
considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
The wording used by BG Ltd for the high net worth investor category mirrors the 
wording set out in COBS 4.12.6R and, based on the available evidence, it seems 
Mr B may have had sufficient income to meet the definition of a high net worth 
investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr B, as he did not have the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in investing in the bond. 
In the circumstances Mr B would either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and 
reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr B.
So my decision is that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr B would 
either not have proceeded to make the investment or would not have been able to proceed, 
had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations in relation to the 
appropriateness test. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mr B for 
his loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr B as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in an 
inappropriate investment.
I take the view that Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mr B £200 for the distress caused by the total loss of his investment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Three-year 
Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA BondStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr B agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mr B that he repays to Gallium any 
amount he may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. 
If any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left 
uninvested, they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Based on Mr Bs circumstances at the time and what hes said about his 
investments, I think he wanted income with some growth with a small risk to his 
capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean that 
Mr B would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr B in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman