DRN-3992105
The complaint
Ms G has complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined a claim she 
made for unemployment on her credit card payment protection insurance.
What happened
Ms G contacted Lloyds to make a claim in May 2022. Lloyds declined the claim on the basis 
that Ms G had resigned from her job in 2018 and resignation is not covered under the policy 
terms. 
Ms G said she had to leave her job due to being the victim of domestic abuse and that she 
wanted the claim to be paid from 2021, which is when she registered for Jobseekers 
allowance (JSA).
Lloyds position was that it would consider her claim from 2018 if she was able to provide 
evidence to support that she had to leave her job at that time due to domestic abuse. 
However, it also explained that, as the balance of the credit card was zero at the time Ms G 
ceased work, there would be no benefit to pay anyway, even if the claim were to be 
accepted.
Our adjudicator thought that Lloyds had acted fairly in declining the claim. Ms G disagrees 
with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy does not cover unemployment resulting from voluntary unemployment, including 
voluntary redundancy and resignation.
Lloyds contacted Ms Gs former employer who confirmed that she had resigned in August 
2018. Lloyds has been willing to look at the wider circumstances and to consider possible 
exceptional circumstances which might have meant that Ms G had no choice but to leave 
her job. However, the evidence that Ms G has provided in relation to escaping domestic 
abuse all stems from 2021 rather than the time that she left her job in 2018. 
In the event of a successful claim, the policy would pay out a benefit of 5% per month of the 
outstanding credit card balance at the time the policyholder lost their job. Ms Gs credit card 
account had a zero balance in August 2018, so even if Lloyds had accepted the claim, there 
would be nothing for it to pay out.
Ms Gs reason for making a claim in May 2022 was that she received a letter from her credit 
card provider saying that she had gone over her limit and so she was wanting to use the 
insurance to help pay off some of the balance. She escaped from her domestic abuse 
situation on 30 December 2020 and her circumstances meant that she wasnt able to access 
job opportunities. She registered for JSA in January 2021 and thinks that Lloyds should 
therefore pay the claim from that date. She thinks it is unfair for Lloyds to link the situation of 
her fleeing domestic abuse in December 2020 to the resignation of her job in 2018.
For someone to claim on an insurance policy, there has to have been an insured event. In 
the case of an unemployment claim, that is the occasion of someone losing their job. In this 
case there is only one insured event, which occurred in August 2018. Lloyds has relied on 
the available evidence that Ms G resigned, to decline the claim. This is in line with the policy 
terms and conditions and so Im satisfied that Lloyds has assessed the claim correctly.
Although Ms G wants Lloyds to look at her claim from 2021, no insured event happened at 
that time. I appreciate thats when she first registered for JSA but that is not the relevant 
factor here. She was not working at that time and so wasnt made unemployed then.
I dont underestimate what a difficult time Ms G must have gone through and the toll it must 
have taken on her. I have a great deal of sympathy for her situation. But when looking at her 
complaint, I need to consider whether Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. The policy provides cover for the event of becoming 
involuntarily unemployed, rather than any later continued unemployment due to the 
circumstances Ms G has described. Overall, I consider that Lloyds approach in declining the 
unemployment claim was reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman