DRN-4036851
The complaint
Mr E complains that RCI Financial Services Limited trading as Mobilize Financial Services 
(RCI) wrongfully held him liable for an agreement when it should have been terminated.
What happened
Mr E entered into a hire agreement with RCI in January 2019 for the battery of his electric 
car. Mr E sold the car in July 2022. He said he correctly submitted a Battery Hire Transfer 
Document to RCI shortly after the sale of the car, and so believed he wasnt liable for any 
further ongoing payments.
Mr E said he received a late payment notification from RCI. So he contacted them and sent 
another copy of the transfer document. He said he was also in contact with the new owner of 
the car, but communication broke down.
RCI continued to chase Mr E for late payment. In October 2022, Mr E received a Default 
Notice which required him to make payment before 11 November 2022 to ensure no further 
action would be taken in respect of the breach. Mr E said RCI gave him two options. One 
option was that RCI would record a default against Mr E. RCI said they would then turn off 
the battery which would prompt the new owner to contact them. The second option was for 
Mr E to make a payment equal to the monthly payments that were appearing in arrears after 
he sold the car. Mr E said he made this payment before the date RCI requested to avoid any 
impact to his credit file.
Mr E said he also queried with RCI that if they still considered him liable for repayments to 
the agreement, then they should switch the battery off at his request, which would in turn 
prompt the new owner of the car to contact RCI. Mr E said RCI responded to him and 
explained their policy was only to switch batteries off once lease holders had been put into 
default. 
Mr E said RCI still proceeded to place a marker on his credit file, resulting in his credit score 
dropping significantly. In November 2022, RCI told Mr E that his credit file would be 
corrected, but Mr E said it hadnt when he chased them in December 2022. He also believed 
his credit card limit was reduced as a result of the impact to his credit score. Mr E also said 
he was unable to proceed with a property re-mortgage.
Mr E complained to RCI as he believed he was assured his repayments he made after he 
sold the car would be refunded to him. RCI said they didnt agree to this.
RCI sent Mr E their final response. Within it, they said the battery lease hadnt been 
transferred when Mr E sold the car, so he was still liable for repayments under the lease 
agreement taken out with them. They explained RCI hadnt received the required signed 
documents from the new owner of the car, so the agreement with Mr E couldnt be 
terminated. RCI went on to say that they took steps to assist Mr E and contacted the new 
proposed agreement holder and they were pleased their actions resulted in the lease being 
successfully transferred. As a gesture of goodwill, RCI removed the late payment markers 
from Mr Es credit file, but they declined to refund the lease payments made since the car 
was sold. 
Mr E referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator found that RCI didnt need to do 
anything further. In summary, she said that RCI made it clear to Mr E that he needed to 
complete the Battery Hire Transfer Document and ensure it was completed before handing 
the car to the new owner. And, as the transfer hadnt successfully completed until later, RCI 
didnt need to refund any payments to Mr E.
Mr E disagreed with the investigators findings. He accepted that he did not fully follow RCIs 
process when he sold the car. But he said he sent the Battery Hire Transfer Document to 
RCI a couple of days after the sale, but RCI didnt process it and so he had to resend it. Mr E 
also said RCIs process was impractical as it would have resulted in the buyer visiting him 
twice; firstly to complete the document and secondly to complete the purchase once the 
transfer was approved.
Mr E went on to say, among other things, that RCI told him that if he paid the overdue 
rentals by a certain date then they would not impact his credit score. And that they told him 
he would get refunded on these payments once the new owner of the car took out an 
agreement with them.
As Mr E disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Mr E acquired his battery under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
Firstly, I have reviewed RCIs terms and the information they would have given to Mr E when 
he acquired his car. I have reviewed this information to consider whether RCI has fairly 
communicated and applied their own terms.
I have seen a copy of a letter Mr E would have been sent when he acquired the car in 
January 2019. Enclosed, would have been a FAQ document which explains what Mr E 
would need to do if he were to sell his car. It says that Mr E would need to complete the 
relevant Battery Hire Transfer Document. It also goes on to say that it is very important that 
Mr E follows these instructions and ensures that RCI has confirmed that the transfer has 
been processed before he releases the car to the buyer, otherwise he will remain liable for 
the battery hire payments.
RCI has also sent our service other letters Mr E would have received which give similar 
instructions to ensure the process is completed correctly if Mr E intended to sell the car.
Im satisfied that Mr Es ongoing liability for both the battery and monthly payments due 
under the credit agreement were clear  he was liable for both until such time as the new 
hirer had signed their agreement with RCI and this had been confirmed by them.
Mr E sold the car before the Battery Hire Transfer Documents were sent to RCI and 
unfortunately the buyer of the car stopped communicating with Mr E. Mr E has also agreed he did not fully follow RCIs process. He said he believes RCIs process was impractical as it 
would have resulted in the buyer having to visit him twice. 
Whilst I can understand Mr Es concerns here and that he was being asked to pay for the 
hire of a battery that was no longer in his possession, RCI were not being paid either, and 
they had warned Mr E of the consequences of selling the car before the transfer of the hire 
was complete. So, I dont think RCI were unreasonable to continue charging for the hire.
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied that Mr E needed to keep making monthly payments 
 he was responsible for them until RCI confirmed the liability for the battery had been 
transferred. And when he had stopped making payments, RCI was legally obliged to 
accurately report these arrears to credit reference agencies. Mr E has confirmed that these 
has since been removed by RCI as a gesture of goodwill.
I now turn to what Mr E was told by RCI when he enquired about making payment for the 
arrears accrued and I have noted that this is the crux of Mr Es complaint.
Mr E received a Default Notice in relation to the arrears. Mr E says RCI assured him that if 
he was to make payment before the deadline set in his Default Notice, then his credit score 
wouldnt be impacted.
Mr E requested call recordings from RCI of calls he held with them. Mr E has provided our 
service with a copy of those recordings. After Mr E said he would make payment so his 
credit file isnt impacted, I have noted RCI say:
can we have that payment from you, just so that we can have your agreement running 
and normal so your mortgage application isnt impacted.
In another call recording provided, Mr E asks whether RCI can confirm that there wont be 
any trace on his credit file, now that payment has been made. RCI say:
the trace will be removed
Our service asked RCI why Mr Es credit file was impacted when he made payment and 
cleared his arrears before the deadline set. RCI responded and said the negative markers 
Mr E is referencing is likely relating to late or missed payments, but not a record of a default.
Mr E has provided our service of a screenshot which shows this account on his credit report. 
From what has been provided, I cant see a default being recorded, but rather late payment 
markers. But either way, Mr E says the recording of this information  whether a default or a 
late payment marker  has had a negative impact on his credit score.
Having listened to the calls, I think it is likely RCI were referring to a default not being applied 
to Mr Es credit file, as arrears were paid before the deadline given in the Default Notice; 
rather than referring to late payment markers being removed from Mr Es credit file.
As Ive already said above, RCI was legally obliged to accurately report these arrears and 
late payments to credit reference agencies. And RCI has since removed these markers from 
Mr Es credit report. Considering everything here, while I accept RCI suggested that if 
payment was made, then Mr Es credit score would not be impacted, I think they have done 
more than they needed to in this instance to correct their mistake.
Ive noted Mr Es concerns that it had an effect on his ability to secure a re-mortgage and it 
may have impacted his credit limit with a third-party credit card issuer. I appreciate the 
markers have now been removed, but for the future, Mr E might, however, be interested to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his credit records. The purpose of such a 
notice is to allow someone the opportunity, in this case Mr E, to add any explanatory 
circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration when 
making lending decisions. And if he wishes to do this in the future, Mr E should contact the 
credit reference agencies directly.
Mr E also says he was told he would be refunded payments since the car was sold once the 
buyer signed an agreement with RCI. Mid-way through one of the call recordings Mr E 
provided our service, RCI say:
but we will be back-dating that agreement once we do get through to and well be able 
to refund you these months.
RCI later told Mr E this wouldnt be possible and even said they didnt agree to saying this to 
him.
I accept Mr E was given incorrect information here and led to believe he would receive a 
refund for some of the payments he made. But I dont think this means RCI needs to honour 
what they said and refund payments for making a mistake. As Ive already said, I think Mr E 
was liable to make these payments. And given RCI has already amended Mr Es credit file, 
when I dont think they needed to, I dont think RCI needs to do anything further.
I appreciate my outcome will be disappointing to Mr E. But I do hope hell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman