DRN-3427696
The complaint
The estate of Mr H complains that he was wrongly advised in 1993 by Mercer Limited to 
transfer the benefits of his occupational pension into a personal pension plan, and it later 
incorrectly carried out the pension review process.
Although the advice given in 1993, and the subsequent review were carried out by a different 
business, Mercer Limited are now the responsible entity, so for clarity Ill refer to Mercer 
throughout.
What happened
Mr H had an occupational pension scheme (OPS). In 1993, on Mercers advice, Mr H 
transferred the benefits from his OPS into a personal pension plan.
Soon after, the regulator established an industry-wide review of particular pension business 
carried out between 1988 and 1994. This was known as the Pension Review.
Sadly, in 1997 Mr H passed away, and the benefits of his personal pension were distributed 
to his widow.
In 1999 Mercer offered to review the advice Mr H had been given in 1993 as part of the 
Pension Review. This review found the advice he was given was unsuitable. In order to 
redress the lost benefits, Mercer awarded Mr Hs widow a payment of £32,396.51 into her 
own pension policy, and a cash payment of £19,955.68 to compensate for the loss of the 
pension payments she shouldve received between when Mr H died and the date of the 
reviewers calculation.
In June 2021, being represented by a claims management company, the estate of Mr H 
complained to Mercer about the original advice, and that the Pension Review hadnt been 
carried out correctly. It said, in summary, that the estate of Mr H wasnt in the financial 
position it wouldve been had it not been for the negligent advice, specifically missing out on 
a substantial inflation-protected widows pension for life. And Mercer had failed to carry out 
the review according to the regulators requirements in the following ways:
There was a failure to make satisfactory attempts to gather full occupational scheme 
information before resorting to assumptions;
The assumptions made were not plausible;
The calculation was based on all of Mr Hs transferred benefits being non-protected 
rights (which was not the case).
In its final response to the complaint, Mercer said the offer of redress made as a result of the 
Pension Review followed the guidelines of the regulator at the time, and its calculations were 
checked by a qualified actuary. As such it had no reason to doubt the calculations were not 
performed to the guidelines. But the estate of Mr H didnt agree, and referred the complaint 
to our Service.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought that Mercer had 
demonstrated that the review was carried out based on the assumptions that the regulator 
told it to use at the time. He also thought Mr Hs widows specific circumstances had been 
correctly considered and there were no errors in the calculation inputs.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am in agreement with the findings of the Investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain.
The estate of Mr H has complained that the advice he was given in 1993 was unsuitable. But 
there is no reason for me to consider this point because Mercers 1999 Pension Review 
accepted he was wrongly advised. Therefore what is left for me to consider is whether 
Mercer carried out Mr Hs pension review correctly and in line with the regulators 
requirements at the time.
Its important to note that under the industry wide Pensions Review established by the 
regulator, businesses were only required to conduct the review once, using the standards 
and assumptions the regulator told them to use at the time. This is because the assumptions 
or predictions they used were considered reasonable at the time to assess the future loss.
In general, the assumptions to be used for the calculation were those relevant to the time 
that the calculation was done, and compensation was paid on this basis. 
Unfortunately, in many cases the assumed growth rates used in the calculations didnt 
materialise. This has had an impact on the benefits provided by personal pensions, and in 
Mr Hs widows case, the funds available for drawdown. So, although it was thought the 
compensation paid following the review, plus the existing value of the pension, would be 
high enough to match the OPS benefits at retirement date, this hasnt been the case for 
many consumers. 
The Pension Review was intended to be a one-off exercise. So businesses could provide 
redress for mis-selling, knowing they wouldnt be liable for future compensation. And 
consumers could be reassured that the mis-selling had been recognised and put right at that 
point in time using what were considered reasonable assumptions without needing to revisit 
the matter many years later. Because of this, the Pension Review was a very tightly 
regulated process, subject to supervision and sampling at the time by the regulator.
The estate of Mr H has said it doesnt think the correct assumptions were made by Mercer 
when the review was carried out, and in particular that Mr Hs transferred benefits were non-
protected rights, which wasnt the case. But I dont agree.
Ive considered the evidence provided by Mercer and I havent seen anything which 
persuades me its review was carried out incorrectly.  There dont appear to be any errors in 
respect of the information or assumptions used to calculate the redress. And these 
calculations were made specifically in respect to Mr Hs widow, and what she was likely to 
receive as the pension beneficiary. And Ive also seen evidence within the calculations which 
shows Mr Hs OPS didnt have any element of protected rights.For all these reasons Im satisfied Mr Hs pension transfer advice was reviewed and 
appropriately compensated in line with the regulators guidance and requirements at the 
time, so I wont be asking Mercer to do anything further here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman