DRN-3482446
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Petplan added an exclusion to her 
horses policy when it renewed in May 2021. She considers the exclusion to be unfair and 
wants it changed.
What happened
Mrs N has insurance for her horse with Allianz. Her cover started in May 2020. In December 
2020 the horse developed uveitis in its left eye. Mrs N made a claim for the cost of treatment 
in February 2021. Prior to renewal of the policy in May 2021 Allianz contacted Mrs N to ask if 
the uveitis had affected her horses sight. She checked with her vet and confirmed that it 
hadnt.
Mrs N was sent her renewal documents at the end of April 2021 and Allianz had added an 
exclusion in respect of claims resulting from or connected to the eyes from 26 May 2021. 
Mrs N was unhappy with this exclusion as she felt it was too wide and should be limited to 
uveitis or any related conditions. 
Allianz told Mrs N that if the horse suffered an eye injury, theyd consider a claim, but other 
eye conditions wouldnt be covered by the policy. And they said theyd review the exclusion 
when the horse had been clear of uveitis for 12 consecutive months, subject to receiving a 
completed exclusion review form from her vet, an up to date veterinary history and a 
customer declaration.
Mrs N wasnt happy with this and Allianz raised a complaint on her behalf. 
Unfortunately, at the end of June 2021, after months of treatment for uveitis, the horse had 
to have its left eye removed.
On 9 July 2021 Allianz confirmed they considered the exclusion to have been correctly 
applied and in line with their underwriting guidance. They said the exclusion remained broad 
based on the risk they were prepared to accept after a claim for uveitis. They confirmed they 
would consider claims for direct external injuries.  
Mrs N then complained to our service.
Our investigator considered the case. He said the veterinary records confirmed that Mrs Ns 
horse was diagnosed with uveitis of the left eye in December 2020. The right eye wasnt 
affected. Mrs N had discussed a number of conditions that could affect the eye with her vet 
(tumours, entropion, conjunctivitis, blocked lacrimal ducts, keratitis and cataracts), and shed 
told Allianz the vet didnt think any of these conditions should be excluded for a horse with 
uveitis in one eye. 
At the time Mrs N couldnt provide confirmation from her vet of what conditions could be 
regarded as related to uveitis. But our investigator thought it likely that the vet said at least 
some conditions wouldnt be linked. 
Our investigator asked Allianz if theyd obtained any veterinary advice to support the 
exclusion, but they hadnt. They provided details of their underwriting guidance and he said 
the exclusion was in line with this.
Our investigator said that insurers are free to decide whether to offer insurance and on what 
terms. They have different views on the risks theyre prepared to cover, and this isnt 
unreasonable, provided they treat their customers fairly. And Mrs Ns policy states that at 
renewal Allianz can add exclusions because of your horses claims and veterinary history.
But for the exclusion to be fair Allianz had to show that there was a higher risk of claims 
related to the eye, that arent linked to uveitis. And they hadnt done this.
The Insurance Conduct Of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) explains the rules and best
practices for an insurer. Section 2.5 says a firm must act fairly in accordance with the
best interest of its customer and must not seek to rely on any exclusion unless it is
reasonable for it do so.
Having considered this our investigator said that an exclusion for both eyes for uveitis and 
any linked condition would be fair. But he didnt think a blanket exclusion for the eyes was 
fair. So he said the exclusion should be limited to conditions linked to uveitis.
Allianz didnt accept our investigators opinion. They said theyd discussed the case with 
their external vet whos said the following: -
Uveitis in the horse is a very difficult condition to treat and is probably the leading cause of
equine blindness. It is also called Recurrent Uveitis and previously Periodic Ophthalmia
which as their names suggest explain that repeated attacks occur causing further damage
to the eyeball leading to blindness and eventual enucleation as occurred here to control the
constant pain.
Although uveitis is the main focus of inflammation in the uveal tract in the eye, other
structures rapidly become involved including the cornea, the chambers of the eye and the
lens resulting in potential keratitis, cataract formation and glaucoma.
It is also recognised that Uveitis can affect one or both eyes as it is believed that there is an
underlying autoimmune component.
It is for these reasons (extensive damage to the structures of the eye and a potential to be
a bilateral condition) that an exclusion is recommended for the eyes at the subsequent
renewal once the condition is first noted. This exclusion should be non-reviewable.
Our investigator considered the vets comments and said he appreciated that other 
structures within the eye could become involved once a horse has uveitis. And it may lead to 
other conditions such as potential keratitis, cataract formation and glaucoma.
And hed read the article theyd provided saying may cause extensive damage to the 
structure of the eye and has potential to be a bilateral condition. So he understood why, as 
an insurer, theyd want to place the blanket exclusion for the eyes. But this didnt change 
his opinion that a blanket exclusion would be unfair here.
He'd said in his view that it would be fair to exclude cover for uveitis or any potentially linked
condition. Then if uveitis developed in the other eye, or it led to keratitis, glaucoma or
cataracts for example, their vet could assess the claim and it could be declined if it was 
linked to the initial uveitis diagnosis.And he said there were conditions, such as corneal ulceration which could have many 
causes, so he maintained it wasnt fair to exclude any claim relating to the eye if Mrs N could 
show it wasnt linked to uveitis.
Allianz replied to our investigator saying they were prepared to amend the exclusion to the 
right eye as the left eye had been removed, and not to exclude the eyelids, which wouldnt 
fall within the eye exclusion.
Our investigator responded to Allianz saying the horses left eye had been removed. So 
amending the exclusion to say the right eye didnt change anything. And he remained of the 
view that the exclusion should exclude cover for uveitis or any potentially linked condition.
Allianz responding saying they didnt agree with the rewording of the exclusion. They said 
their exclusion was clear and provided certainty to Mrs N about what was covered. Due to 
the deteriorating and widespread nature of the condition its very probable that anything 
further within the eyeball is due to this condition. The exclusion thats been proposed doesnt 
provide any certainty on whats covered and leads Mrs N to believe a claim may be paid. 
They say they need to provide clear and certain exclusions so customers can decide if the 
cover theyre offering meets their needs. And they dont believe the proposed exclusion is in 
Mrs Ns best interests.   
Since our investigator considered the case Mrs N has provided a letter from her vet saying 
that as far as shes aware theres no evidence linking uveitis in one eye with other conditions 
such as neoplasia (sarcoids, melanomas, squamous cell carcinomas, among others) or 
other conditions in the opposite eye.
Weve sent a copy of the letter to Allianz who have confirmed they have no further 
comments to add.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ns horse developed uveitis in its left eye in December 2020. Despite treatment the eye 
had to be removed in June 2021. From the veterinary records Ive seen theres no evidence 
that the horse has had any problem with its right eye. Mrs Ns vet has said shes not aware 
of any evidence linking uveitis in one eye to uveitis, or other conditions in the other eye.
Allianz have said that due to the widespread nature of uveitis its likely that any further 
problems within the eyeball are linked to the condition. But as the left eye has been removed 
that can no longer be a concern.
For the exclusion to be fair Allianz would need to show that theres a higher risk of claims 
related to the eye, that arent linked to uveitis. Which they havent done.
Allianz have told us that their external vet has said that uveitis can affect one or both eyes 
and its believed theres an underlying autoimmune component. So based on the potential 
for it to be a bilateral condition an exclusion is recommended. But they havent provided any 
evidence to show that Mrs Ns horse had an autoimmune condition which led to it developing 
uveitis. And there are other potential causes of uveitis including ocular trauma and a 
bacterial or viral infection. As uveitis can be a bilateral condition, I think its reasonable for Allianz to exclude cover for 
this and linked conditions. Mrs N has said she doesnt think this is unfair. 
But Im not persuaded that a blanket exclusion of claims for or connected to the eyes is fair 
or reasonable. While Allianz have said the current exclusion is fair and provides Mrs N with 
certainty of whats covered, I think the exclusion is too wide. So Allianz should amend the 
exclusion in relation to the horses eyes to uveitis or linked conditions. If Mrs N needs to 
make a claim evidence can be obtained to show whether the condition is linked to uveitis.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ns complaint about 
Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Petplan.
And to put things right I require them to amend the policy exclusion relating to her horses 
eyes so that it just excludes claims for uveitis and linked conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman