DRN-4126511
The complaint
Mr A complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) significantly delayed the 
transfer of his personal pension to a new self-invested personal pension (SIPP). As a result 
he says he lost the opportunity to purchase a holiday home abroad. He says hes unhappy 
with Scottish Widows offer of redress as it doesnt compensate him for the stress and upset 
hes suffered, as well as the potential significant financial loss from losing the opportunity to 
purchase the property. 
What happened
In April 2022 Scottish Widows sent Mr A a retirement options pack for his pension plan. By 
June 2022 Mr A had decided to transfer the plan to a SIPP with a new provider. He says part 
of the reason was to take his tax free cash (TFC) lump sum and put it towards the purchase 
of a property abroad. On 28 June 2022 Mr A received notification that his transfer had 
completed but he says the funds didnt appear in his SIPP. Mr A says he began the process 
of contacting Scottish Widows to enquire about his funds, but despite trying numerous 
means of communication he didnt get a response until early September 2022. 
Scottish Widows told Mr A that due to an administrative error the funds had been raised but 
not sent to the SIPP. It said it would send the funds immediately and look at the financial 
loss Mr A had suffered. In September 2022 Scottish Widows sent Mr A £850 for the distress 
and inconvenience the matter had caused and said it was going to contact the SIPP provider 
for a unit price comparison to establish what the impact of the delay was. It said it would also 
pay interest for the additional length of time Mr A should have had his TFC payment. 
Further correspondence between Mr A and Scottish Widows continued and during this time 
Scottish Widows did confirm that Mr A had received more units by being invested when he 
was than he would have received had the transfer completed on 1 July 2022. So it said it 
couldnt make an additional payment to his SIPP as there was no financial loss. But 
ultimately Mr A didnt accept that position or the offer that was made to him. He said no 
allowance had been made for the position he would be in now had he been able to purchase 
the property abroad when he intended to. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into the matter.  He 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld making the following points in support of his 
assessment:
The redress and compensation for the delayed payment of TFC was fair and 
reasonable.
He could see that Mr A had received more units of his new fund within the SIPP as a 
result of the delayed transfer. He thought this meant Mr A wasnt due redress for this 
matter as he hadnt suffered a financial loss.
The £850 Scottish Widows paid for the overall distress and inconvenience was in line 
with what we would recommend. 
Without further evidence to show the impact the delayed TFC payment had on the 
property purchase, it wasnt fair to say Scottish Widows should cover any potential 
losses Mr A said hed suffered based on his calculations alone.
Mr A didnt agree. He made the following points in response:
He didnt think compensation of £850 was sufficient.
He believed the loss he will suffer when he does purchase his holiday home will be 
significant and didnt agree that was unworthy of recompense at this time. 
He had previously made it clear that there wasnt an agreed house purchase, and he 
hadnt instructed a lawyer  but that didnt alter the fact that his purchase will have 
been delayed and that he will suffer a financial loss. He had provided a fair and 
reasonable assessment of the financial loss but would accept it being assessed 
properly when the property is purchased if that meant he would be compensated. 
In his opinion the delay by his new provider in investing his funds was irrelevant, and 
any investment loss should be calculated as at the date the money was eventually 
transferred from Scottish Widows.
The investigator said that, in order to uphold the part of Mr As complaint regarding the 
overseas property purchase, he would need evidence to show any losses were as a direct 
result of Scottish Widows error. In this case there wasnt any such evidence. He also tried to 
explain why the delay in the new provider investing Mr As funds was relevant because it 
meant he was able to buy more units of the new investment and therefore hadnt suffered a 
loss when compared to the number of units that could have been purchased on 1 July 2022. 
But Mr A still didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So it 
was passed to me to review.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said Mr As complaint should be upheld as Scottish Widows had 
made an error when it had Mr As pension funds ready to transfer to his SIPP but didnt 
actually complete the transaction. I said that in order to put it right Scottish Widows needed 
to carry out a loss assessment calculation  which might not show a financial loss - but 
would provide more clarity and ultimately closure for Mr A. I made the following summarised 
points in support of my findings, although this decision should be read in conjunction with the 
full text  and findings - of that provisional decision, which form part of this final decision:
Scottish Widows redress and compensation for the loss of TFC was fair and 
reasonable in my view.
There were some factors which I wasnt entirely satisfied had been taken into 
account through Scottish Widows method of calculating any financial loss by 
comparing unit prices on two separate dates. I thought it should carry out a simple 
comparison of funds comparing the date the money was transferred with the date it 
should have been transferred.
But I didnt think there was enough evidence to support Mr As claim that the delay in 
transferring his finds directly affected the purchase of a particular overseas property 
 or what his losses might have been.
I thought Scottish Widows offer of £850 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused was broadly within the range of what Id expect to see for 
errors such as these.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Neither party fully agreed with my provisional decision. Mr A said I had doubted his intention to buy a holiday home and didnt accept his claim that 
Scottish Widows actions had directly caused him a financial loss. He said he was actively 
looking for property at the time of the delay and had already appointed a lawyer. He 
confirmed he had now purchased a property and had now been able to calculate his 
financial loss. 
 
Mr A provided an updated calculation to support his loss claim as well as various emails and 
documents which set out the trail of his ongoing search for a property. He provided the 
following information to support his claim.
Emails from October 2021 to December 2021 asking to view various properties, as 
well as receipts for the accommodation he stayed in whilst he looked at various 
potential purchases.
Proof of engaging a local solicitor in November 2021.
Details of properties he was sent in June 2021 with his comments on them.
Proof of reservation leading to the purchase of a property in January 2023.
A revised calculation for the losses Mr A said hed suffered which came to £13,879.
In response to the provisional decision Scottish Widows said that the calculation I had asked 
it to carry out wasnt standard practice as it generally requests unit price information form 
the other provider involved and then calculates if there has been a loss in the number of 
units purchased. It would then purchase the additional units if a loss has occurred. It said it 
would request the information I had asked it to get to carry out a new calculation but wanted 
to understand why this was necessary when the outcome was likely to be the same as the 
one it had previously completed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so  and having fully considered Mr As additional documentation 
regarding the ongoing process of trying purchase an overseas property - I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. I know Mr A is going to be disappointed with this 
outcome  he continues to demonstrate the strength of feelings with lots of supplementary 
information. And I have some sympathy for the position he finds himself in having seen the 
transfer of his pension funds delayed by Scottish Widows. 
But while I still think Scottish Widows should undertake another calculation Im not 
persuaded that it directly caused Mr A a financial loss over the purchase of his overseas 
property. So, Ill explain my reasoning.
Theres no dispute here that Scottish Widows didnt transfer Mr As pension funds to his 
SIPP when it said it would. Scottish Widows letter to Mr A dated 28 June 2022 said it had 
made payment of £233,075.10 in settlement of the current transfer value, to (the) SIPP. 
But it hadnt made the payment  and subsequently accepted this was due to an 
administrative error. It eventually sent the funds on 20 September 2022. So Scottish Widows 
was left in the position whereby it said it would carry out a calculation to determine any 
investment loss that might have occurred and to look at what compensation it should 
consider paying Mr A for the undoubted stress and inconvenience the delay would have 
caused him.At the same time Mr A explained that, during this period of delay, he was trying to purchase 
an overseas property and required the TFC from his pension plan in order to do so. He said 
the delay meant he couldnt buy a property and subsequently suffered a financial loss 
because the house prices had risen in the country he was going to buy in and also the 
exchange rate had moved against him. So he said hed lost around £24,000 by that point. 
So Ive considered these three key areas of potential financial loss or request for 
compensation, particularly against the additional points both parties raised following my 
provisional decision.
The redress calculation
Scottish Widows said it had calculated the amount of interest  at 8% simple - that Mr A had 
lost on his TFC having received it on 26 September instead of when it said he could have 
expected to receive it on 7 July 2022. This amount was paid to Mr A along with 
compensation because the interest payment was also subsequently paid late. I think this 
was appropriate in the circumstances and Mr A hasnt made any further comment on this 
following the provisional decision  so I think the resolution is fair and reasonable.
But Mr A isnt happy with the calculation Scottish Widows carried out to see if hed suffered 
an investment loss on his pension funds as a result of the delay. He didnt think it was fair 
that Scottish Widows had used the unit price on 19 October 2022 to reflect the delay 
because this included a delay in reinvesting by his new provider. He said the comparison 
should have been against the fund value when the money was received by the SIPP 
provider. 
In order to bring some closure to this particular part of the complaint I set out a simpler 
method of calculating the potential investment loss. I accepted that it might provide the same 
outcome as the one Scottish Widows had already carried out. But I thought it would make it 
easier to show Mr A exactly what would have happened if the funds had been transferred on 
the 7 July 2002 instead of the date they were transferred. Scottish Widows thought this was 
unnecessary and not its standard procedure. It said the extra work involved would only 
lead to the same outcome as it had already arrived at. 
But Scottish Widows original calculation wasnt carried out using the methodology Id 
normally expect to see  which takes into account all of the subsequent actions that may 
have occurred within the plan after the transfer completed. So in this case I think that 
Scottish Widows calculation may not have taken into account the TFC that was taken from 
the fund later than it should have been, or the slightly lower reinvestment of Mr As funds that 
was undertaken by the SIPP provider. So I think Scottish Widows does need to undertake 
the following calculation.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr A should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if his funds had been transferred when Scottish Widows said they had in its letter 
to Mr A. 
What must Scottish Widows do?To compensate Mr A fairly, Scottish Widows must:
Compare the current actual value of Mr A's SIPP investment with the notional value had it 
been transferred on the date that Scottish Widows said it ought to have been transferred. 
Allowance should also be made for the TFC to have been withdrawn and paid to Mr A on the 
date Scottish Widows has previously stated. 
And to answer Mr As question about Scottish Widows use of the later dates when the new 
provider invested his funds, what Ive set out above, in establishing the notional value of 
Mr As recipient plan had the transfers occurred sooner would factor in the actual time it took 
for the new provider to invest the proceeds.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Scottish Widows should pay into Mr A's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan 
if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Scottish Widows is unable to pay the total amount into Mr A's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr A wont be able to 
reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr A's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr A would have been able 
to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Additional interest should be paid at 8% simple per year from final decision to settlement (if 
not settled within 28 days of the business receiving the complainant's acceptance). Income 
tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Scottish Widows deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr A how much has been taken off. Scottish Widows should give Mr A a 
tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr A asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
The impact of this matter on Mr A and Scottish Widows offer of compensation
I dont underestimate the impact this matter had on Mr A and the level of upset and concern 
this would have caused him.
The delay carried on for an extended period of around three to four months and Mr A has 
told us how his concern for the safety of the funds  and inability to be able to progress the 
holiday home purchase, caused him to have sleepless nights and panic attacks which has 
led to his mental health and work being affected. In addition, although Scottish Widows has 
corrected the losses caused by its delay, Mr As expectations of being able to achieve what 
he hoped to would still have been raised during this time. 
Mr A has continued to state that he regards Scottish Widows offer of £850 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by all the circumstances here, as miserly and insufficient for the 
impact this has had on him. But while I dont take lightly the impact this has all had on Mr A, our role isnt to punish businesses and our recommended levels of compensation try to 
recognise the impact of a businesss errors. I think Scottish Widows offer of £850 is 
proportionate and consistent with other awards this service might make in similar 
circumstances  so I think its fair and reasonable in this case.     
The loss of an opportunity to purchase a holiday home before prices rose significantly 
Mr A has been consistent in claiming the most significant financial loss he suffered was as a 
result of not being able to purchase the holiday villa he says he was going to buy in 2022 - 
because of the delay in receiving his TFC. He has provided evidence to show that he did 
purchase a property with effect from January 2023 and has now undertaken a revised 
calculation setting out the actual loss he says hes incurred. He thinks the financial loss is 
around £13,879.
As I said in my provisional decision, I did consider this aspect of the claim carefully and I 
said I had no reason to dispute Mr As assertion that he intended to purchase the property  
as indeed he has now demonstrated. But, in my view, the evidence Mr A has now provided 
regarding the difference in house prices and exchange rates between July 2021 and the time 
of the purchase still isnt sufficient to support a claim of financial loss against Scottish 
Widows for not being able to buy the property in June 2021.
I say that because following Mr As additional submissions I think there are reasons for 
concluding that in the summer of 2021, on balance, Mr A wasnt prevented from completing 
a property purchase nor was there a prospective purchase that wasnt allowed to progress 
directly because of the delay in receiving his pension funds. 
Ive seen evidence to support Mr As claim that he engaged a solicitor and travelled abroad 
in late 2021 to view some properties that he was interested in. But the evidence from June 
and July 2022 only amounts to an email trail between Mr A and some agents enquiring 
about some properties in the area he was interested in. But Mr A fed back to the agent that 
he wasnt particularly interested in those properties and asked them to keep looking on his 
behalf. 
And crucially theres no evidence to suggest that he was going to book any flights or that he 
wanted to view any of those properties. So theres not much to support the idea that he was 
close to finding an appropriate property or that a purchase was imminent, so I simply dont 
think theres sufficient evidence to show that Scottish Widows actions directly led to Mr A 
losing a property or that he was prevented from buying one at that time. 
I know Mr A thinks that now he has been able to quantify his loss I should uphold his 
complaint and tell Scottish Widows to compensate him along the lines of his calculation. But 
I dont think theres enough evidence to support his claim of losing a property purchase 
directly because of Scottish Widows actions in and around June to September 2022. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Scottish Widows Limited should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Scottish Widows Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr A in a clear, simple 
format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Keith LawrenceOmbudsman