DRN-4325397
The complaint
Miss M complains about the settlement offered by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) following 
a claim made under her contents insurance policy.
What happened
Miss Ms hob was accidentally cracked, so she made a claim to Aviva, her contents 
insurance provider.
Aviva initially declined the claim based on Miss M only having contents insurance. But they 
accepted later that Miss M would take the hob with her if she moved, so they considered it 
as contents, and accepted the claim.
As Miss Ms hob is no longer made, Aviva offered settlement based on a hob which they say 
is the equivalent. They offered either £340.55 vouchers or £330.23 cash, before excess 
deduction.
Miss M says the brand of her previous hob was superior to that which Aviva has based 
settlement on, and she paid around £400-£500 for it. As Miss M doesnt think the settlement 
offered by Aviva is fair, she approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint. He was 
satisfied Avivas offer was fair, so he didnt recommend they do anything further.
Miss M didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Miss M, Ive 
reached the same outcome as our investigator.
I understand Miss M purchased her hob around ten years ago, and at a cost of between 
£400-£500. Given the length of time since purchase, that hob is no longer made so an exact 
replacement cant be obtained.
The terms of Miss Ms policy explain how claims will be settled:
We can choose to settle your claim by:
replacing;
reinstating;
repairing;
payment.
Replacement will be based on the nearest equivalent available in the current market. 
Please note that our replacement mobile phones are refurbished models.
.
If we can repair or replace property, but we agree to make a cash settlement, we will 
only pay you what it would cost us to repair or replace it.
So, this explains a replacement is based on the nearest equivalent in the current market.
Having considered all the information provided, I think the hob that Aviva has based 
settlement on is a reasonable current equivalent. I say this because the specification is near 
identical to the damaged hob in terms of features and functionality. Therefore, Im satisfied 
the settlement is on an equivalent basis and Aviva has acted in line with the policy terms.
I do recognise what Miss M has said about her old hob, that it is from a high street 
department store with own branding and made by a manufacturer which differs to what she 
is now being offered. And the settlement amount is less than she paid for the previous hob 
ten years ago. However, the policy terms outline an equivalent, and in terms of specification 
and functionality, this has been offered by Aviva. The terms dont specifically outline it would 
be either the same brand or equal to the original price paid.
Whilst I do appreciate Miss Ms views on the brand she had and the brand that the 
settlement is based on, I havent been provided with anything which demonstrates this hob 
would be inferior in terms of specification or function to that which she had previously. So, 
Im satisfied that the settlement offered by Aviva is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, and Im not going to direct them to increase this or compensate Miss M as 
shes asked.
If now that I have issued a final decision Miss M would like to accept either of the offers 
Aviva has made, shed need to contact them directly to arrange this.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman