DRN-2648301
The complaint
Mr D complains about an electric car that he acquired under a hire agreement with Arval UK 
limited. He says it has never achieved the range he was expecting it to.
What happened
Mr D acquired a new electric car in December 2019. He took a hire agreement with Arval, 
paying an initial rental of £4,999 to be followed with 23 further rentals of £468.11 per month. 
Shortly after getting the car Mr D complained to Arval about it, saying it wasnt achieving the 
range he expected it to. Mr D says he expected the car to do around 300 miles on a full 
charge. But, he says it never achieved this. Arval initially directed him to the cars 
manufacturer. 
The manufacturer got in touch with Mr D and explained it thought the car was working as it 
should. It said various things could affect the life of the battery and gave some suggestions 
to Mr D to improve the range. These included pre-conditioning the car, using a smart climate 
function, not using the heated screen, running in eco mode, graze charging, making sure 
system updates were applied and resetting the range to give a more realistic figure.
Mr D remained unhappy and complained to Arval again. He said, in summary, that the car 
only showed a range of around 216 miles rather than the 300 miles he expected. He said he 
had various issues with the charging network, including the car showing chargers that 
werent available and the car taking longer to charge than he thought it should. 
Arval issued its final response in April 2020. It said it had liaised with the dealer and 
manufacturer who had confirmed the car had been tested, had a software update and was 
operating in line with the manufacturers specifications. It said it wasnt upholding Mr Ds 
complaint. 
Around the same time Arval also emailed Mr D and sent him a link to an online map of the 
charger network and a link to the manufacturers online calculator for range. It also explained 
various things can affect the range, like driving style, atmosphere, weather and the use of 
electronics and systems in the car. It also reiterated the manufacturer had found no fault with 
the car when it saw it.
Mr D was unhappy with this and referred the complaint to our service. He said the car now 
showed a range of 243 miles but only travels around 178 miles. Mr D said this means when 
he does a regular 250 mile journey this takes much longer than it should as he has to stop 
and charge the car.
Mr D said the car showed charging stations which are inaccessible or that dont work. And 
he said charging stations charge at a rate of two miles per minute, not 150 miles in 20 
minutes as he expected.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said, in summary, that the manufacturer 
does say the car will do up to 292 miles. But he said this was calculated using the Worldwide 
harmonised Light vehicle Test procedure (WLTP). He explained as a lot of different factors 
can affect this, he didnt think it was likely Mr Ds car wouldve achieved this in the real world. 
He said there are also factors that can affect vehicle charging times. Our investigator 
concluded that there was no evidence to show a fault with the car. 
Mr D disagreed. He said the car only charges to 227 miles and has never shown a charge of 
300 miles. He said the car should show 300 miles and then the range should change 
depending on what factors affect the car.
The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Mr D complains about a car supplied under a hire agreement. Providing consumer credit 
contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ds complaint 
against Arval.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Arval here  has a responsibility to 
make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person 
would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. 
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. So, Ill take into account that the car Mr D acquired was brand new, 
from a premium manufacturer and that he was paying over £450 a month to hire it along with 
the upfront cost of nearly £5,000. This means I think a reasonable person would have very 
high standards for what to expect from the car.
If the car wasnt performing in line with the manufacturers guidelines, I may consider it not to 
have been of satisfactory quality. So, Ill consider if this was the case.
I can see Mr D has provided a photo of a Fuel and energy consumption and emissions label 
for the car. This says the electric range is 292 miles. Below this it says:
Please note that figures quoted are obtained under specific test conditions, they may not be 
achieved under real world driving conditions. However, the figures serve as a means of 
comparing models of a similar type. Figures relate to models with class 2 Air Season Tyres.
He has also provided a photo of what appears to be advertising from the dealer. This says:
EV Range: Up to 298 miles on the WLTP cycle. EV range figures are based upon 
production vehicle over a standardised route. Range achieved will vary dependent on 
vehicle and battery condition, actual route and environment and driving style.
Ive also considered what the manufacturer said about this. In an email it explained:
The 292 range figure we quote is the result of the official WLTP test. This is a standardised 
laboratory based test which was designed to be a consistent and repeatable procedure that 
all vehicles would use for the purposes of comparison between vehicles. It is not, and has never been, a guarantee of the range, or fuel efficiency, that a customer could expect to 
achieve.
It goes on to explain that the 292 figure is achieved at an average speed of 29 miles per 
hour and under very particular conditions. Im satisfied from what Mr D has told us that its 
very unlikely he was driving under the same conditions as the test.
Thinking about all of this, it seems to me that the 292 mile range is a guide for what the car 
can do under test conditions. I havent seen enough to make me think its most likely Mr Ds 
car couldnt achieve this range under the specific laboratory test conditions that apply. So, 
Ive gone on to consider the real world use of the car and if this is in line with what the 
manufacturer says.
Arval provided a link to the manufacturers website that has a calculator for real world use for 
the car. Ive considered a photo Mr D sent in from October 2020. This shows the car fully 
charged, with a range of 242 miles. 
I appreciate this isnt an exact science. But, using the manufacturers calculator, putting in 
the average temperature for that month, along with mixed use this gives a range of 239 
miles. Putting on the heating, which I have assumed Mr D would in October, gives a range of 
227 miles. So, it appears the range the car was predicting is roughly in line with what the 
manufacturer says it should be in the real world. 
Ive also considered what Arval said from the time the car was looked at. I havent put too 
much weight on this, as it hasnt been able to provide job sheets or a technical breakdown of 
exactly what was done. But, I have considered that it confirmed the car and battery had been 
tested at the manufacturers garage and this confirmed the car was performing as it should. 
In summary, I appreciate Mr D was given a figure for the cars range of 292 miles. But, I also 
think its clear from the documents Ive seen that this a theoretical maximum for the car 
under test conditions. I havent seen enough to make me think Mr Ds car couldnt achieve 
this under these test conditions. And, the actual range of the car seems to be in line with 
what it should be. And, finally, the manufacturer has inspected the car and said its working 
as it should.
Considering everything here, I dont think its likely there is a fault with the car that means it 
isnt achieving the range it should. It follows Im satisfied, on balance, that the car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Ive thought about what Mr D said in response to the investigators view. He said the car 
should show the cars maximum possible range when fully charged and then this should 
then change when being driven depending on the conditions. He says because the car has 
never shown a 292 mile range, this means it is faulty.
But, I dont agree this should be the case. The manufacturer has explained the car uses an 
algorithm to calculate the likely real world range the car will achieve, based on its past use 
and the environment. It does this taking into account the type of routes driven, average 
speed and deceleration, use of in car functions such as heating or air conditioning, weight of 
load in the car etc. along with the temperature and other variables that can affect the range.
Thinking about this, it makes sense to me that the car wouldnt show its theoretical maximum 
range. Instead it calculates a likely range  which seems to me much more useful in the real 
world for planning routes etc. So, I dont think this shows a fault.Ive considered what Mr D told us about the breakdown the car had. I have very limited 
information here and Arval have not been able to provide details nor job sheets from the 
time. But, from what I understand, the car was repaired and is now working. So, I dont think 
Arval needs to take any further action here.
Ive also considered what Mr D said about the car directing him to chargers that arent 
working or arent accessible. But, I should point out that Arval are responsible for the car 
itself  not the charging network. I would expect the car to be able to accept charge from a 
fully working charger  which it seems to do. If the chargers arent working, or are 
inaccessible, I dont think Arval are responsible for this.
Ive also considered that Mr D said the car wasnt charging at the rate he expected it to. 
Again, I have very limited technical information here. Ive considered the photo Mr D sent in 
that shows the car 75% charged with an hour and 26 minutes until full. But, my 
understanding is that the rate of charging will depend on many variables such as the charger 
itself, the connection, weather conditions, the battery conditions and the amount of charge 
the battery is holding at the time. Taking everything into account, I havent seen enough to 
make me think the car wasnt charging as it should.
It follows that I dont think its most likely there is a fault with how the car charges. So, I dont 
think this means the car is of unsatisfactory quality.
I would like to reassure Mr D that I have considered everything else he has said and sent in 
about this complaint. But, I still dont think on balance there is a fault or issue with the car. 
So, I dont think Arval need to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman