DRN-2477885
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim 
on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
Mr S car was damaged in a malicious attack. He claimed on his policy and Advantage 
arranged for one of its nominated repairers to fix the car. Mr S wasn't happy with the repairs 
process and asked for his preferred garage to carry out the repairs. 
Mr S was very unhappy with the quality of the repairs his preferred garage did. He was also 
unhappy that Advantage didn't provide him with a courtesy car and treated the issue as a 
fault claim. He complained.
Advantage told Mr S that as he'd used his chosen garage, rather than one of Advantages 
nominated repairers, he wasn't entitled to a courtesy car and Advantage wasn't responsible 
for the quality of repairs. It also told him that as it couldn't recover its outlay (what it had paid 
to settle his claim) from anyone else it had categorised the incident as a fault claim. But it 
acknowledged that at one point it had incorrectly told him he would be given a courtesy car, 
when that wasn't the case. So it offered him £50 for the impact of its misadvice. 
Mr S brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She noted that 
Advantage had offered £50 for its misadvice about the courtesy car. She also said 
Advantage had offered to cover some additional repairs. Which an independent engineer 
said Mr S chosen garage hadn't done. She didn't think Advantage needed to do anything 
else.
Mr S didn't agree so the complaints been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm satisfied that Advantage has already made reasonable offers to put 
things right. 
In bringing this complaint Mr S has made a number of detailed points. I don't intend to 
address each and every point hes made and instead will focus on what I see as being the 
key outstanding issues at the heart of Mr S complaint. Further, while weve been looking into 
this complaint, Mr S has raised some additional points. But as those arent matters which 
Advantage had responded to as part of this complaint, I don't intend to comment on those 
issues here.
Is Advantage responsible for the quality of repairs?
Mr S has numerous photographs which show problems with his car after the repairers 
returned it to him. And Advantage paid for an independent engineer to inspect the car. The 
engineer noted some of the repairs were below standard which were the fault of the 
repairing garage. But Advantage isn't responsible for the costs of putting those repairs right.
Mr S policy says that if one of Advantages nominated repairers fixes his car then: 
Advantage will guarantee the work for five years; and he would be entitled to a courtesy car 
while his car was being repaired. But the policy also makes it clear that if Mr S chooses to 
have his preferred garage do any repairs, and that garage isn't one of Advantages 
nominated repairers, then he isnt entitled to those benefits. That is, if Mr S chose his own 
garage, Advantage wont guarantee the repairs nor will it provide a courtesy car.
Mr S asked Advantage if his preferred garage could carry out the repairs. And the notes of 
that call indicate Advantage said he could. Advantage told Mr S that if he did so he wouldn't 
be entitled to a courtesy car or the other benefits of using Advantages nominated repairer. 
But Mr S went ahead and his preferred garage carried out the repairs.
As I've said above, it's clear from the photos provided and the independent engineers report 
that some repairs weren't up to standard. But those repairs were carried out by Mr S 
preferred garage and not one of Advantages nominated repairers. So Advantage isn't 
responsible for correcting any substandard work by Mr S preferred garage. Thats a matter 
between Mr S and his garage. Its not something Advantage is in anyway responsible for. 
For completeness Ill add that Advantage said that the independent engineer had noticed a 
couple of points which were covered by the claim, for example repacking a rear lamp, that 
Mr S preferred garage hadn't done. So it offered to sort those things out under the terms of 
Mr S policy. But I understand Mr S rejected that offer because Advantage hasn't agreed to 
fix all the other issues caused by Mr S preferred repairer. But as I've said above, Advantage 
isn't responsible for the other repair issues. It follows that I don't think Advantage needs to 
take any further action in respect of repairing Mr S car.
Was it fair for Advantage to record the incident as a fault claim?
Mr S car was damaged by an unknown vandal. In other words Mr S didn't cause the 
damage to his car and he isn't in any way to blame for it. So I can understand why he might 
not think its fair for Advantage to refer to the incident as a fault claim. 
But it might help if I explain that its common practice across the insurance industry for 
insurers to record a vandalism claim, where it can't recover its outlay, as a fault claim. The 
term fault, when describing an insurance claim, doesnt always mean a policyholder is 
responsible for an accident or an incident. It just means the insurer hasnt been able to 
recover all of its costs from someone else. So as Advantage has had to pay out on Mr S 
claim, and it hasn't got back any of the money its paid out, its recorded that as a fault claim. 
And thats in line with what Mr S policy says it will do. So I don't think it acted unfairly in 
recording the incident as a fault claim.
Should Advantage have provided Mr S with a courtesy car?
Mr S policy says that if one of Advantages nominated repairers fixes his car then it will give 
him a courtesy car. But, as I've said above, the policy also says that if he uses his preferred 
garage, which isn't one of Advantages nominated repairers hes not entitled to a courtesy 
car. And as Mr S chose to use his preferred garage he wasn't entitled to a courtesy car. So I 
don't think Advantage did anything wrong by not providing him with one.I'm aware that during one phone call, after Mr S had asked for his preferred garage to do the 
repairs, Advantage told him it would give him a courtesy car. But it quickly realised this was 
a mistake and offered him £50 compensation for that misadvice. I think that was a 
reasonable offer to put things right. So I'm not going to instruct Advantage to take any further 
action.
I understand Mr S has been unwell. So I appreciate my decision is likely to add to his worries 
at an already difficult time. Thats an unfortunate knock on effect of my decision. Its certainly 
not my intention to add to Mr S troubles. And I hope he understands that I must come to my 
conclusions based solely on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint. And thats what I've done in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I'm satisfied Advantage has already made reasonable offers 
to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman