DRN-4375620
The complaint
Mr S is complaining about Volkswagen Financial Service (UK) Limited trading as 
Volkswagen Financial Services (VWFS). He says they shouldnt have lent to him as the loan 
was unaffordable.
What happened
In July 2022, Mr S took out a hire purchase agreement with VWFS, to finance the purchase 
of a van. He paid a deposit of £1,000 and borrowed £17,136 - the cash price of the vehicle 
was £18,136. The agreement required him to make 60 monthly repayments of £352.01.
In January 2023 Mr S complained to VWFS saying his personal financial situation hadnt 
been taken into account when hed been provided with finance. He said when buying the van 
hed told an adviser that he was unemployed and that he was planning to use the vehicle to 
start a new business. Mr S also said the van hadnt been fit for purpose  but this element 
has already been dealt with by VWFS and by our service under a separate complaint. 
In response to Mr Ss complaint, VWFS said Mr S had told them he was living with his 
parents at the time of the agreement and was paying £100 a month in rent. And they said 
hed told them hed been working in retail as a manager for four years. VWFS also said 
theyd reviewed Mr Ss credit file. They said he had two active credit cards, with a total 
balance of around £700, and a live mobile phone contract, but no other lines of credit and no 
late payments or other adverse markers. VWFS said they werent present when Mr S had a 
conversation with the retailer and so cant comment on what was said  they added that 
Mr S had signed his agreement which had his employment status on it.
Mr S remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to our service. He said he hadnt told 
anyone he was working for a retailer  and said he didnt think VWFS had checked his 
finances and personal situation sufficiently to ensure hed be able to make the repayments.
One of our investigators looked into the matter but didnt uphold it. She said she didnt think 
VWFS had done proportionate checks. But she said if they had done proportionate checks 
theyd have seen the agreement was affordable for Mr S.
Mr S rejected our investigators view. He said if VWFS had checked his income theyd have 
seen hed been paid by a different organisation than the employer shown on his agreement. 
And he said VWFS never asked for any income or expenditure so didnt know what his 
disposable income was. He asked for a decision and the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and acknowledging itll be disappointing for Mr S, Im not upholding his 
complaint  Ill explain why. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did VWFS carry out proportionate checks?
VWFS said theyd checked Mr Ss credit file  which gave them no cause for concern. And 
they noted Mr S had been employed for four years as a manager in retail, with minimal 
housing expense. On that basis they thought the agreement would be affordable for Mr S. 
CONC 5.2A.15R requires a firm to take reasonable steps to determine or make a reasonable 
estimate of the customers current income unless the firm is able to demonstrate that its 
obvious in the circumstances that the customer is able to make the repayments. VWFS 
havent said they thought it was obvious that Mr S would be able to make the repayments. 
And Mr S was borrowing over £17,000 and needed to make monthly repayments of over 
£350 for the next five years. So Im inclined to say VWFS should have taken steps to 
ascertain Mr Ss income.
If VWFS had carried out proportionate checks, what would they have found?
VWFS could have looked at Mr Ss payslips or bank statements to check his income. If they 
had, theyd have seen that in both May 2022 and June 2022 hed earned around £1,600. But 
the business that had paid him was different from the employer stated on his finance 
agreement.
Id expect this to have raised questions and led VWFS to ask more questions about Mr Ss 
employment. Mr S says he was unemployed at the time he took out the loan from VWFS. 
But he was planning to work as a delivery driver. And he planned to use the van to do so. Its 
unlikely Mr S was planning to earn less from his self-employment than he had been from his 
employment (in a similar role). So Im satisfied if VWFS had asked him, hed have told 
VWFS he expected to have at least the same level of income. 
Alternatively, VWFS could have asked Mr S what his income was and/or used Credit 
Reference Agency tools to verify his income. Either way, I think theyd have arrived at 
roughly the same figure. Theres no regulation that says a business cant lend to someone 
moving from employment to self-employment.
Given that Mr S was living with his parents and paying only a nominal amount to do so, it 
would have been reasonable for VWFS to decide that the loan was affordable  although the 
repayments were high at around £350 per month, Mr S had income of £1,600, and very little 
in the way of credit commitments and non-discretionary expenditure.
So although Im not satisfied VWFS carried out proportionate checks, Im satisfied that if they 
had, theyd have been able to fairly decide to lend to Mr S. I appreciate Mr S has struggled 
to make the necessary repayments, but from what Ive seen thats because of unforeseeable 
circumstances rather than because the loan wasnt affordable. On that basis I cant uphold 
Mr Ss complaint. My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman