DRN-3311833
The complaint
Mrs K complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to her irresponsibly and provided her 
with unaffordable lending.
What happened
AvantCredit provided loans to Mrs K as follows:
Date 
takenCapital 
loan 
amountTerm Typical 
monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayableLoan Repaid
February
2016£1,200 24 months £72.94 £1,750.44 April 2018 
May 2018 £1,900 36 months £92.27 £3,321.90. July 2019
When Mrs K complained to AvantCredit it didnt uphold her complaint so she brought her 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that whilst 
loan 1 didnt look like it had been unfairly provided, AvantCredit shouldnt have provided 
loan 2. Our adjudicator explained why he was recommending that this part of Mrs Ks 
complaint should be upheld and he set out directions indicating what AvantCredit should 
do to put things right. 
Mrs K accepted our adjudicators view. AvantCredit disagreed. It mainly said that Mrs K 
had around £14 disposable income left after paying its loan on top of all her other monthly 
outgoings and her spending on credit would amount to around 43% of her income.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. 
Having done so, I think our adjudicator reached a fair and reasonable outcome and I am 
upholding Mrs Ks complaint about loan 2 for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why 
I say this. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
I have reviewed the information AvantCredit gathered when it agreed to provide this loan. 
Alongside asking Mrs K what her regular outgoings were each month, AvantCredit also 
carried out its own credit checks to understand Mrs Ks credit history and current credit 
commitments and it took steps to verify that her declared income was around £1,400 per 
month  which its credit checks also showed.  
Like our adjudicator, I think the checks AvantCredit did were broadly proportionate. And 
whilst having other outstanding lending or even an impaired credit history wouldnt be 
unusual for a borrower applying for this type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt 
necessarily be a bar to lending, I dont think AvantCredit took properly into account what the 
information it had gathered showed about Mrs Ks overall financial situation and the 
likelihood of her being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
I think AvantCredit should have been concerned to see that when Mrs K applied for loan 2, it 
was evident that she had already exceeded the limit of her available credit and there were 
other signs that she had run into financial difficulties keeping up with her contractual monthly 
repayments. AvantCredit has acknowledged that her minimum contractual debt repayments 
would be an estimated £611.82 (comprising regular payments of £474.27, £137.55 to cover 
minimum payments plus the monthly repayments for this loan) costing Mrs K 43% of her 
verified income after she took out loan 2. 
This didnt allow any margin for Mrs K to make any meaningful inroads into repaying her 
revolving credit debts - I think its fair to say that making only minimum monthly repayments 
towards the outstanding balance on credit cards effectively serves mainly to extend the debt 
and it adds very significantly to the long term cost of that credit. And Mrs K had told 
AvantCredit that the loan was for home improvements  so it knew that it would likely add to 
her overall indebtedness. 
I dont think AvantCredit was reasonably able to be satisfied in these circumstances that 
Mrs K would be able to make its loan repayments in a sustainable way. 
Bearing in mind the repayment of this loan on top of the debt AvantCredit saw Mrs K was 
already responsible for paying, I think its fair to say that Mrs K needed to pay a significant 
portion of her income towards credit. And in my opinion, as a responsible lender, 
AvantCredit shouldve realised that Mrs K would likely struggle to repay this loan  especially 
bearing in mind the 36 month loan term.
So, thinking about all the information AvantCredit had gathered, I cant reasonably say 
that it made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. I dont think 
AvantCredit was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for 
Mrs K. So it shouldnt have provided it and AvantCredit needs to put things right.
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account that AvantCredit said it expected Mrs K 
to make lifestyle changes to help her afford the loan repayments. But I dont think that was a fair or reasonable basis for providing a loan that wouldnt be sustainably affordable 
unless Mrs K made changes that AvantCredit couldnt assume Mrs K was in a position to 
make. And the fact that Mrs K paid the loan ahead of time doesnt mean that she was 
able to do so in a way that was sustainably affordable.  
Mrs K sent us some further information about her financial situation. I dont need to say 
more about this as I think AvantCredit had enough in the information in front of it to have 
realised that adding to Mrs Ks debt was likely to be unsustainable for her and put her in 
the position of needing to borrow further in order to be able to repay her other debt. But 
I would just mention that a more up to credit report she sent us shows this is what 
happened, as I think was reasonably foreseeable. So it isnt correct to suggest that the 
fact Mrs K repaid her loan on time with no issues means that she was able to do so in a 
way that was sustainable  thats not borne out by the information I've seen which 
supports my view that AvantCredits loan was detrimental to Mrs K. 
So, I am upholding Mrs Ks complaint that she should not have been given loan 2. 
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that AvantCredit should pay any additional redress. Mrs K 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think AvantCredit 
acted unfairly towards Mrs K in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs K to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Mrs K shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed.
AvantCredit should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mrs K received as a result of having been 
given loan 2. The repayments Mrs K made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mrs K having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
whilst its fair that Mrs Ks credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So AvantCredit should remove any 
negative information recorded on Mrs Ks credit file regarding loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ks complaint about loan 2 and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to take the 
steps I've set out above to put things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman