DRN-2194583
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Fusion Wealth Limited delayed the transfers of their ISAs. 
What happened
In February 2019 Mr and Mrs C arranged through their adviser to transfer their ISAs from 
Fusion Wealth to a new provider. 
Fusion Wealth received notice of the proposed closures and transfers on 18 February 2019 
and the ISAs were sold into cash the following day. The transfer was initially attempted using 
an electronic process, but there was a mismatch with some name and address information 
and the process reverted to a manual one. At this point there was a further problem relating 
to Mr Cs date of birth. This was amended after the provision of a copy of Mr Cs passport. 
Mrs Cs transfer was completed by 28 March 2019, Mr Cs took slightly longer, completing 
on 11 April 2019 because of the date of birth problem. 
Mr and Mrs C complained to Fusion Wealth, but it didnt uphold the complaint, as it didnt 
consider it was responsible for the delays. The complaint was referred to this service, but our 
investigator reached the same conclusion. He felt that Fusion Wealth had acted promptly 
throughout the process to address the issues as they arose and that the errors had not been 
their responsibility  for instance, Mr Bs date of birth information had been provided 
incorrectly when the account was originally set up. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept this. They queried whether it had been confirmed that the date of 
birth error was the responsibility of the adviser who had provided the information to Fusion 
Wealth. And they reiterated their concerns about the delays being unreasonable and the 
investment growth they had missed out on as a result.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I appreciate it will have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs C that the transfers didnt go as 
smoothly and quickly as they wouldve hoped. But Ive not seen that the delays were the 
fault of Fusion Wealth. The initial use of an electronic system is a standard process and it 
seems sensible that following initial inconsistencies the process reverted to a manual one. 
Where there were issues it appears Fusion Wealth acted promptly to address the problems. 
For instance, the date of birth issue was resolved on the same day that Fusion Wealth 
became aware of it.
It has been confirmed that the incorrect date of birth was provided when the account was set 
up. So, I cant reasonably hold Fusion Wealth responsible for the part of the delay caused by 
that. I note also what Mr and Mrs C have said about the loss incurred by being in cash while 
the delays were ongoing. But it appears that the request to move into cash in advance of the 
transfer process came from their adviser, so again I dont think this is something for which 
Fusion Wealth can be held responsible. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman