DRN-3329017
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has declined their home 
insurance claim for damage to their drains. 
What happened
In May 2021 Mr and Mrs M discovered one of their drains was blocked so they called out an 
engineer. The engineer told them the drain was collapsing and that it would be a good idea 
to call their insurer; so they contacted Lloyds.
Lloyds sent out its specialist drainage expert to look at what was going on. It reported that 
the drains were made of pitch fibre which had become misshapen and worn over time. It 
said the damage wasnt the result of a one-off unforeseen incident (as required by the 
policy).
Lloyds declined Mr and Mrs Ms claim on the basis that the damage was caused by gradual 
deterioration, not accidentally, which wasnt something that was covered by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M immediately disagreed with Lloyds decision and raised a complaint. Lloyds 
looked into the complaint but remained of the view that the claim had been correctly 
declined. Mr and Mrs M also complained to Lloyds that it hadnt sent them a copy of its 
drainage experts report. Lloyds apologised for not providing a copy and sent them a 
compensation payment of £150 for any inconvenience or frustration theyd been caused. 
Mr and Mrs M instructed their own contractor to repair their drains and they complained to 
this service. They told us they wanted Lloyds to recognise that they did nothing to cause the 
damage and to accept the claim. They said they had no idea that their drains were made of 
pitch fibre until the drain became blocked, that they had suffered financially, that the damage 
was unexpected and that they didnt foresee that their underground pipes would be sub-
standard.  
Mr and Mrs M also told us that their neighbour had had a similar problem a few years ago 
after discovering their drains were manufactured of pitch-fibre. Mr and Mrs M said their 
neighbour also had their claim for damage declined by Lloyds but had then made a 
successful complaint to this service. They sent our investigator some information that their 
neighbours had given them about this services approach to complaints about claims for 
damaged pitch-fibre pipes. They said it was our stated position that we thought it unfair for 
insurers to decline or reject claims for damage to pitch fibre pipes by relying on the policy 
exclusion for wear and tear. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint but didnt recommend that it was 
upheld. He said he thought that the claim had been declined by Lloyds in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs M disagreed and again referred to their neighbours 
complaint which this service had upheld. 
Our investigator looked again at Mr and Mrs Ms complaint but wasnt persuaded to change 
his mind. He explained that we regularly review our approach to make sure we are being fair 
to everyone and that in the past we had taken the approach that damage to pitch fibre pipes 
shouldnt be excluded from cover as any wear and tear couldnt be foreseen by 
policyholders. Our investigator provided Mr and Mrs M with a link to our website that 
explained our current approach to complaints about claims relating to pitch-fibre pipes. He 
also explained that we've changed our approach to these complaints and we now generally 
say that an insurer shouldn't cover damage to pitch fibre pipes unless there's evidence of the 
damage being caused by an external event that was unintended and unexpected (in other 
words, accidentally).
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the disappointment I know this decision will cause Mr and Mrs M, I dont think 
this is a complaint that I can reasonably uphold. Ill explain why. 
Not all damage a home sustains is covered by a home insurance policy. Only damage 
caused by one of the insured events listed in the policy (fire, theft, flood, accidental damage 
to services etc.) is covered. Providing it can be shown that the damage being claimed for is 
caused by one of the insured events listed in the policy then the insurer must pay the claim 
unless it can apply one of the policy exclusions to successfully defeat it. The burden of 
proving any exclusion can successfully be applied rests with the insurer. 
The damage to Mr and Mrs Ms home is a delaminated, blistered and squashed pitch fibre 
pipe/drain that became blocked. This is the damage they claimed for. The starting point for 
any claim is to consider whether the damage has been caused by any of the insured events 
listed in the policy. Ive reviewed the policy terms and I agree with Mr and Mrs M and Lloyds 
that the only possible insured event the damage could be considered under is the accidental 
damage to services peril. The policy says: 
Buildings Insurance
What we cover
Loss of or damage to the buildings of your private residence by the following causes: 
13. Accidental damage to services.
Certain words that appear in bold in the policy are specifically defined. The policy says: 
Accidental damage
An accident that causes physical damage, which is caused suddenly by an outside force and 
is not expected and not deliberate
Buildings
The structure of your homeincluding their permanent fixtures and fittings and services
Services 
Underground cables, pipes, drains, tanks and their inspection covers serving your home
The policy also contains a number of exclusions. Of particular relevance to this complaint is 
the following: 
This policy does not cover;
Uninsurable causes
Any loss or damage caused by: A gradually operating cause. This is something that happens gradually over a period of time, 
for example corrosion, damp, condensation, decay or decomposition;
For the damage Mr and Mrs M claimed for to be covered by the policy it must satisfy the 
policy terms. The accidental damage to services event requires that any damage is caused 
accidentally as defined by the policy. In other words (as set out above), it must be caused by 
an accident that occurs suddenly by an outside force. I accept that the damage claimed for 
likely meets the rest of the criteria in the definition: namely that it was not expected and not 
deliberate. But that isnt enough, in order to be covered, it must be sudden and the result of 
an outside force. Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs M theres no evidence that the damage was 
sustained in this way. 
Lloyds drainage expert reported the drainage run was deformed, delaminated, squashed 
and unserviceable. Unfortunately pipes made of pitch fibre become soft and lose shape over 
time and the inside will blister and delaminate causing them to reach the end of their useful 
life. Damage of this nature occurs over time, not suddenly, and not as the result of an 
outside force. And, as Ive set out above, damage that occurs gradually over time is not an 
insurable cause under the policy terms. Damage that occurs gradually cannot, by its very 
nature, be damage that occurs suddenly (as required by the policy in order to be covered). 
It follows, having had regard to the policy terms and conditions, that I dont think that Lloyds 
has unfairly or unreasonably declined Mr and Mrs Ms claim for damage to their underground 
pipes. Put simply, the damage claimed for isnt covered by their policy because its not been 
caused accidentally. I of course appreciate that the discovery that their drains are 
unserviceable and must be replaced will have been a stressful, and costly, situation to find 
themselves in. And I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M didnt know the deterioration was 
occurring. But I cant make Lloyds pay for something that its policy doesnt cover; that 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable. 
I know that Mr and Mrs M have said that their neighbour had their pitch-fibre pipe claim 
turned down by Lloyds and subsequently had their complaint about Lloyds decision to do so 
upheld by this service, so they dont understand why we cant do the same in respect of their 
complaint. I can only look here at the individual complaint before me and we consider each 
case on its own facts. I cant comment, nor do I know about, the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Ms neighbours claim and complaint. This service does regularly review its approach to 
complaints to make sure that approach is both up to date and fair to everyone and Ive 
explained above why I think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is one Im unable to uphold. It is 
worth noting that Lloyds hasnt declined their claim by relying on the policys wear and tear 
exclusion however. It has said that the damage wasnt caused accidentally so consequently 
isnt covered. 
For the sake of completeness, I think that the compensation payment of £150 that Lloyds 
paid to Mr and Mrs M for the frustration caused to them by the report not being sent is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances and in line with awards this service has made in 
similar complaints. Indeed, if this complaint had passed across my desk without a 
compensation award already having been made, Im unlikely to have awarded any more 
than this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman