DRN-3421177
The complaint
Miss Ss complaint is about a claim she made on her legal expenses insurance policy for 
cover to bring a personal injury claim against a third party.
Soteria Insurance Limited declined the claim. Miss S thinks they acted unfairly in doing so.
What happened
Miss S, through her own solicitors, approached Soteria Insurance Limited for legal expenses 
insurance cover to bring a personal injury claim against a third party. The incident involving 
the other party took place in 2018. Her claim on the policy was made in 2021.
The claim was assessed by a panel firm of solicitors appointed by Soteria who also acted as 
claims handlers in this case. The solicitors asked Miss Ss solicitors for further information 
and after receiving some of that, concluded that Miss S claim didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success, as required by the policy, so turned down the claim on Soterias 
behalf.
Unhappy, Miss S referred her complaint to this Service. Our investigator considered her 
complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said Soteria didnt provide Miss S with a 
detailed explanation about why the panel firm thought her claim didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success. But beyond she thought that Soteria had acted reasonably in the 
action it had taken. In response to the investigators view Soteria has agreed to provide Miss 
S with a detailed explanation from the panel firm. Miss S doesnt agree with the 
investigators findings. She feels she should have the benefit of legal expenses insurance 
cover, that the panel firm has behaved badly and feels that Soteria is seeking to drop her 
claim because its unlikely to benefit the panel firm financially.
Because of this the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ill be upholding Miss Ss complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator.
The starting point is the policy terms. Miss Ss policy, like virtually all other before the event 
insurance policies requires there to be reasonable prospects of recovery and success. In 
addition, cover will only extend if the value of the claim outweighs the costs of pursuing it. 
We dont think this is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer 
wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed or that the amount they 
might recover would be less than the cost of the action itself. We wouldnt expect a legal 
expenses insurance to fund claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of 
the underlying claim. Instead, and as the investigator explained, we look at whether the 
insurer has acted fairly, So long as they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we 
wont generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong 
or based on factual mistakes. Soteria did this. The panel firms advice was that Miss Ss 
claims didnt have reasonable prospects of success. They cited several reasons for this; they 
said there was no damage to the third partys vehicle and the damage to Miss Ss car was 
unlikely to have been caused by the incident, which seemed to be supported by the expert 
evidence. They referred to the medical evidence which stated the speed of the impact 
between the vehicles was stated as not known. They also referred to CCTV footage which 
they said showed a very minor low speed collision that wasnt consistent with Miss Ss case 
that she was thrown backwards and forwards. In addition, they asked Miss Ss solicitors a 
number of questions which on the whole, werent addressed. These included why they 
hadnt issued a claim so close to limitation on a conditional fee arrangement if they thought 
Miss S had good prospects of success, to provide details of the previous two personal injury 
claims Miss S had made in the preceding years and for an explanation around why the 
request for cover had been made so long after the incident.
Overall, Miss S doesnt agree with the stance the panel firm has taken. But I dont think the 
questions they asked her solicitors were unreasonable and theyve agreed to review things 
again if they receive further information from Miss S or her solicitors. I havent seen anything 
to suggest that Miss S has provided any further information in response to the questions that 
were asked but should she or her solicitors properly do so, Id expect Soteria to instruct the 
panel firm to review things again.
I know Miss S feels the claim has been turned down because theres no benefit to the panel 
firm. As I mentioned above, the claim needs to be proportionate to pursues in order to attract 
cover under the policy. I havent seen anything to suggest that the value of Miss Ss claim 
has been considered at all so whilst it might follow that a low velocity impact claim might not 
be of high value, that doesnt mean it wouldnt be covered. It would very much depend on 
the cost of taking that claim forward against the level of damages she might receive. And I 
think its likely Soteria would have competitive rates agreed with its panel firm for personal 
injury claims in general. As long as a claim has reasonable prospects of success and is 
proportionate to pursue then Id expect an insurer to offer cover. At present Miss S hasnt 
shown her claim has reasonable prospects of success, so it has been turned down for this 
reason. Soteria are entitled to do this in line with the terms of the policy.
I know the investigator thought Soteria hadnt provided Miss S or her solicitors with a proper 
explanation of their advice setting out the details of her claim and how the panel firm had 
reached their conclusions on the merits of it. And Im pleased to see that theyve now agreed 
to do this. If on receipt of that opinion, Miss S receives a properly reasoned legal opinion to 
the contrary- which addresses the questions that the panel firm originally asked, she can 
present that to Soteria and request they reconsider things. 
Putting things right
Soteria should instruct their panel firm to provide a better and more detailed explanation to 
Miss S setting out their conclusions on the merits of her claim so that she is in a better 
position to provide an alternative legal opinion addressing the same issues and the 
questions originally put to her solicitors by the panel firm.
My final decision
I uphold Miss S complaint and direct Soteria Insurance Limited to comply with my award of 
fair compensation set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman