DRN-3369870
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC has not fully refunded him after he was the victim of 
an investment scam. 
What happened
In the course of our investigation of Mr Ws complaint, he has said the following events 
occurred:
- Hed found an advert on a search engine and social media website, with links to an 
investment company which had been endorsed by celebrities. He input his telephone 
number into this particular investment companys website and received a call back.
- The caller was professional and carried out some ID checks with him, he was called 
from the number given on the investment website. Mr W says the only research he 
could find on the particular company was through trustpilot - which gave positive 
reviews. 
- He says the investors he was dealing with manipulated him (but with his permission) 
to gain remote access to his computer. They opened crypto accounts in Mr Ws 
name using his information, with his knowledge and consent. Mr W says the login 
information was saved for him on his computer  although hes later said he didnt 
have access to these accounts. 
- He allowed the investors to do all the trading for him as he didnt know how to do this. 
He said this was his first time investing and didnt understand how the sophisticated 
technology worked and did as they asked.
- Various investment opportunities were explained to Mr W during the course of the 
period that he decided to invest in. Mr W has said these included returns of 70 - 75% 
and that he would double his money. At various points he was told he had made 
profits and some low value withdrawals from his crypto account can be seen into his 
Metro bank account.
- Mr W says he asked to withdraw funds several times but was told not to and to keep 
investing. 
- Mr W said his main method of contact with the investors was through whatsapp so he 
used this channel to chase the investors for his money and returns. He was told 
these would be deposited into his bank account but when this didnt materialise he 
realised hed been scammed and raised it with Metro.
Metro looked into things and decided to refund Mr W 50% of his losses. It said it was sharing 
the responsibility with him as it felt he could have done more to advise of the risk around 
scams. But it also felt Mr W didnt take reasonable steps to check if the payments were 
genuine.
At a later dated Metro also offered an additional payment of 8% simple interest on the 
refunded amount, calculated from the date the scam was reported to the date of settlement. 
It also offered £75 as an apology for the way it handled the complaint. As Mr W didnt accept 
Metros proposal to resolve the complaint it hasnt paid this additional amount to Mr W, but 
said that it would on resolution of the complaint. 
Mr W has provided a detailed explanation of why he thinks Metro is responsible for his 
losses. I wont set those out in full here. But I will set out below in my findings what the 
relevant considerations are in a complaint like this. 
One of our investigators looked into things. She didnt uphold the complaint and said the 
relevant considerations in this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) and 
the starting position here meant Metro wasnt liable for the transactions. But she felt its offer 
of 50% compensation was fair because:
oIt ought to have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or 
other signs that might indicate when a customer is at risk for fraud. And here 
the transactions Mr W made were unusual enough that it ought to have 
intervened. And it ought to have done so when the third payment was made. 
oShe said if it had intervened its likely the scam would have been exposed 
with the correct questions and the likely answers Mr W would have given at 
the time, preventing further losses.
oShe also went on to say that Mr W should bear some responsibility for the 
loss, given he allowed the scammers to remotely access his laptop and the 
low level of care he took to check the company he was dealing with before 
deciding make these payments. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary he said:
- He went through the trustpilot reviews in detail before deciding to invest and make 
the payments.
- As far as he was concerned the company was legitimate and professional according 
to the reviews. 
- He was expecting to receive interest in addition to the refund that Metro had already 
offered. 
As Mr W didnt accept the investigators findings the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I broadly agree with the investigators findings. Ill 
explain why.
Metro considered the complaint under the remit of the CRM code and refunded Mr W 50% of 
his losses as a result. But as the investigator explained, the particular facts and events of 
this scam arent covered by the code. The reason for this is slightly different to the one 
explained by the investigator but results in the same outcome. As the money went to a 
crypto wallet/account in Mr Ws name, the payments werent made to another person which 
is a requirement under code. And because they went to an account in Mr Ws name there is 
no loss suffered at the point the payments were made from Mr Ws Metro account. So, for 
the purposes of this complaint, Im not considering the CRM code. Im satisfied that Mr W authorised the transactions from his Metro Bank account. He 
confirmed in a call to Metro that he made the transactions himself. But in other 
correspondence hes said the investors made all the payments. Where Mr W didnt make the 
payments himself Im still satisfied they were authorised as he gave access to his account 
knowing payments would be made to his crypto account/wallet. So Metro is entitled to 
consider these payments as authorised by Mr W in either scenario.
And that means that under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of the 
account Mr W is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. However, taking into 
account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Metro should fairly and 
reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So Ive thought about whether Metro ought fairly and reasonably to have done more here; 
whether it ought to have suspected the payments may have been at risk or not, whether 
intervention would have made a difference and if Mr W should bear some responsibility for 
the losses he suffered. 
Should Metro have done more?
As Ive already said I broadly agree with the investigators findings on these points and she 
explained them clearly in her view. 
Im satisfied that Metro ought to have been concerned that Mr W was making unusual and 
out of character transactions on his account. And I agree that if Metro had intervened then its 
likely Mr W would have explained what he was doing, the context of how he had found the 
investments, how he was being contacted, how he was making payments and what he was 
being told. If he had done this then Im persuaded this would have sounded very much like a 
scam to Metro. So much so, that I think it would have persuaded Mr W not to continue with 
the payments and therefore preventing his losses.
I dont need to say anything further on these points, as Metro has already refunded Mr W 
half of his losses (albeit under the CRM) and thats what I would have recommended 
anyway. Although, like the investigator I would have recommended this from a specific point 
rather than the very first transaction. So, Mr W has ended up with a more favourable 
settlement, with 50% of his total losses being refunded by Metro.
Should Mr W bear some responsibility for his losses?Under the CRM code I would have needed to go on to consider whether Mr W had a 
reasonable basis for believing he was dealing with genuine investors before making these 
payments. And thats why Metro didnt offer a full refund, it didnt think Mr W did enough 
checks before deciding to invest. 
And outside of the code, when thinking about Metros need to intervene, I would also 
balance that against Mr Ws actions and whether he should fairly and reasonably share 
responsibility for his losses. 
So Im satisfied I need to consider Mr Ws actions and how they contributed to the losses 
here. And I think Mr W should share the responsibility for his losses, Ill explain why.
Metro has pointed to what it considers to be failings on Mr Ws part, around the rate of return 
he was promised, the lack of research he did around the company he was investing with and 
there already being negative reviews online about the company at the time Mr W decided to 
make the payments. Typically, when considering whether a consumer should bear some 
responsibility for their loss, we think about actions of the reasonable person and I don't think 
I could fairly say that a reasonable person could have believed the claims made about the 
level of expected return. I also dont think it was reasonable that Mr W didnt question or 
think it was unusual that he had to hand over control of his computer and bank accounts and 
significant amounts of personal information and documentation without first verifying who he 
was dealing with as being genuine.
Mr W seems to have based his due diligence and relied on celebrity endorsements through 
social media as well as a very limited number of reviews on trustpilot. But he didnt carry out 
any other checks on the company he thought he was dealing with. Which Im not satisfied 
was reasonable in the circumstances. And one of the trustpilot reviews, there were only five  
at the time, stated that the company was scamming people. I dont find it was reasonable to 
have not taken notice of that.
This is where Mr W disagrees with the investigators findings. He believes he did enough to 
satisfy himself that the investment company was genuine, but hes provided very little 
persuasive evidence that he did this at the time. 
There were other unusual elements that unfolded that I would have expected Mr W to 
question which he didnt:
- His main method of contact with the investors was via whatsapp  which doesnt 
seem a professional communication channel given the nature and value of 
transactions he was making
- He asked to withdraw his funds several times and was put off and talked out of doing 
so which ought to have concerned Mr W
So overall Im satisfied Mr W should bear shared responsibility for his losses and Metro 
doesnt need to refund him for the remaining 50% of his losses. 
Metros offer
Metro has agreed to pay Mr W 8% simple interest from the date the scam was raised to the 
date of settlement. I think this is a fair interest award. Whilst I might have recommended that 
the interest be paid from the date of the first payment that ought to have triggered, Metro has 
agreed to pay interest on the full 50% of his losses which is on a higher amount. So I think 
the offer is fair and I see no reason to change it. Metro can now make that payment on 
receipt of this final decision. Metro also offered to pay Mr W £75 in compensation in full and final settlement of his 
complaint. Ill leave it with Mr W if he wishes to accept that or not but I dont recommend that 
Metro needs to pay anything further in terms of compensation to Mr W.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. The offer from Metro Bank Ltd is fair and I dont recommend 
that it pays Mr W anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman