DRN-3339763
The complaint
Mr H complains about ReAssure Limited, referred to as ReAssure or the business. 
Hes unhappy about its practices and procedures relating to account security. 
In short, he says:
In 2020, ReAssure didnt ask for proof of identity and residency when it took custody 
of his investments from the predecessor business, before allowing him access. 
In December 2020, he raised the issue with ReAssure but got no response. 
The problem only became apparent in April 2021, when he went through a step-by-
step check-in process. 
He remains concerned about the lack of security which may affect many non-UK 
resident account holders in similar situations.    
To put things right, hed like:
An apology from ReAssure, for the poor service and lack of response, as well as the 
delay in dealing with his complaint. 
More importantly, hed like ReAssure to take proactive steps to ensure it has identity 
and residence details for its non-UK customers. 
What happened
In 2019, two investments  namely an Investment Bond and a Personal Pension Fund, 
collectively referred to as the policies  had been transferred to the ReAssure from a 
predecessor business. 
Concerns were raised after Mr H tried to transfer a policy, from his and his wifes joint names 
to his wifes name only. After receiving the paperwork ReAssure asked Mr H to supply proof 
of identification, residency, and tax status for himself and his wife. Mr H then became 
concerned about previously being able to access his investments without having to supply 
this information first. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Whilst it wouldve been prudent for ReAssure to ask for Mr Hs documents when it 
inherited the policy, theres no requirement for it to do so , and hes not aware of any 
security breaches that have resulted from this. 
The standards that ReAssure needs to abide by are set by the industry regulator the 
Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA). 
oUnder FCA Principle for Business 2, ReAssure is required to conduct its 
business with due skill, care and diligence. 
oUnder Principle 6, its required to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers. 
oSo, when it came to changing the policy from joint ownership to single 
ownership ReAssure was required to obtain identification document for anti-
money laundering purposes with the protection of its customers in mind. Until 
this point, there was no prior need to obtain identification documents. 
oUnder the FCAs Senior Management Arrangements, Systems and Controls 
Sourcebook (SYSC) 6:3, ReAssure was under an obligation to comply with 
policies and procedures established under SYSC 6.1.1 R, which include 
having systems and controls that enable it to identify, assess, monitor, and 
manage money laundering risk, that are comprehensive and proportionate to 
the nature, scale and complexity of its activities. 
oUnder SYSC 6.3.3 ReAssure had to carry out regular assessments of the 
adequacy of these systems and controls to ensure that they continue to 
comply with the relevant rules. 
oIn general, financial businesses have autonomy to conduct these checks, and 
to ensure that breaches dont occur. 
In the circumstances, it was reasonable for ReAssure to ask for Mr Hs identification 
and tax residency at the stage it did, rather than when it first inherited the policy from 
the predecessor business. 
Mr Hs original login details verified his information and thats why he was able to 
login and change details. These details are not to be shared and there was nothing to 
suggest that they had been shared and compromised. 
Term 5.2 of the terms and conditions state: You must take all reasonable 
precautions to keep safe and prevent fraudulent use of your Online Services Security 
Details. 
Term 5.8 of the terms and conditions state: These precautions include following all 
security measures recommended on the National Security Centres website. The 
account security is therefore the responsibility of the accountholder.  
Our service isnt the regulator, therefore Mr Hs concerns about other customers in 
potentially similar situations, isnt something that he can comment upon.  
In short, he cant say that the business did anything wrong in this case. The business 
inaction hasnt caused a breach. It applied the security measures fairly. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
He can understand why the investigator reached the conclusion that he did. 
However, he wanted the investigator to consider the following:
oHes not complaining about the previously held joint account, changes to 
which prompted ReAssure to request residence details which was entirely 
reasonable. 
oIn other words, hes not complaining about being asked for tax residency 
information. As a UK citizen who has lived and worked outside the UK on 
several occasions, and is permanently resident on the continent, he 
understands the need to request (and provide) these documents. 
oIt was the request for the relevant documentation that brought to his attention 
that the business didnt have the documents when the policy was transferred 
to ReAssure. 
oHes complaining that ReAssure provided access to his account without 
requesting identification documents, and he was able to set up a 
ReAssureNow account. 
oHes shocked and surprised ReAssure allowed him to do this, without the 
requisite documentation  it was evident these documents didnt transfer.  
oHe understands his responsibility to keep his online account secure which he 
discharges with great care. However, ReAssure didnt verify or have data 
from the predecessor business to verify who he was and where he lived. If the business had this, it wouldnt have refused his subsequent application 
regarding the joint application.  
There may be no rule, or regulation, that required ReAssure to confirm his details at 
the time it inherited the policies. But it might be a requirement thats worthwhile 
considering.   
To reiterate, hes complaining about ReAssure providing him with access to his 
policies, and being able to set up a ReAssureNow account, without having the 
information that it ought to have had. He wouldve gladly provided the information 
that was necessary. 
By not doing so, its a security risk to his policies. 
The investigator having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Hes seen nothing to say that ReAssure had to ask for identification documents when 
it took over the policies, and its not in breach of any regulation by not doing so.  
Financial businesses can ask for tax residency to help tax authorities, they can also 
ask for identification to help tackle financial crime and ensure the breaches 
dont/havent happened. There isnt a time limit by which they shouldve asked for 
these documents. 
ReAssure wouldve been satisfied that the predecessor business had conducted all 
the checks. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says, Im unable to safely 
say ReAssure behaved unreasonably by allowing him access to his policies and make 
changes without requesting identification, residence and tax documentation, such that the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mr H wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point/question raised. My role is to 
consider the evidence presented by Mr H, and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Notwithstanding the investigators view, with which I agree, there appear to be key 
interlinked issues at play that might be causing some confusion. Im aware that Mr H isnt complaining about having to provide documentation relating to 
identification, residency and tax status before his jointly owned policy could be transferred to 
his wife  into her sole name. 
Im also aware that ReAssure asking for these documents when it did isnt an issue but 
prompted Mr H to question and complain about why he wasnt asked for these documents 
earlier, when his policies were transferred from the predecessor business to ReAssure, and 
he was allowed to access his polices and make changes.  
To address Mr Hs concerns, I think its important to look at why he was initially allowed 
access to his policies following the transfer  without needing to provide any further 
documentation   and why that was, by comparison, materially different to when ReAssure 
asked for the relevant documentation.  
The simple explanation is that Mr H had secure and valid login details that enabled him to 
access his policies at the time, and there was no requirement for the business to request 
and/or for him to provide further documentation to prove his identity (and residency) before 
he could do so. 
Its not an uncommon industry practice to enable investors to continue to have access to 
their investments and make changes (including changing contact details) following a 
takeover by a new business to minimise any disruption. Thats unless the new business 
wants to implement immediate changes to how it does business, which isnt the case here. I 
note that notwithstanding the changes at business level, there was no change in ownership 
of the individual policies that mightve prevented Mr H from accessing his policies. 
In other words, even though the businesses changed, there was no question over the 
ownership of the individual policies or the details necessary to access them. And thats why 
Mr H could continue to access his policies (and makes changes) as he has done before, by 
virtue of the secure login details which in my opinion superseded any requirement for 
additional documentation. Im mindful theres no suggestion that the secure login details had 
been compromised, so the business was entitled to rely upon this to verify Mr H. 
On balance, there wasnt a need to re-validate each and every customer following the 
transfer and I dont think this is something Id generally expect a business to do, given the 
potential time and cost of administering such a process. Im mindful the investigator says 
that there was an assumption that the predecessor business wouldve carried out all the 
necessary checks in the first instance, I dont think thats an unreasonable assumption. 
In contrast, the situation with regards to changing legal ownership of an existing policy  
from joint to single ownership  was a materially different situation, which unlike the previous 
scenario, required Mr H to provide relevant documentation relating to identification, 
residency, and tax status. 
Not only was that to satisfy the business that the instructions were from Mr H  someone 
authorised to provide such instructions  but the business also had an obligation to comply 
with anti-money laundering regulations that applied to all customers and not just Mr H.  
Im aware that Mr H doesnt disagree with why he was asked to provide additional 
documentation, but I mention this to highlight the difference in scenarios and why he didnt 
need to do the same after the policies were transferred to ReAssure. 
Based on what Mr H says, it seems he accepts that no rules or regulations may have been 
broken, but its something that the business ought to consider for such transfers. Im sure the business will have noted his comments, nevertheless Im not persuaded that the business 
has done anything wrong in this instance. 
Despite what Mr H says, on balance Im satisfied that the business has behaved in line with 
its terms and conditions and treated him fairly. I agree with the investigators observations as 
set out in the background section of this complaint. 
In conclusion, Im satisfied that the two scenarios referred to by Mr H, are materially 
different. ReAssure requiring Mr H to supply identification documentation in the latter 
situation  where it was required to do so  doesnt mean that the business has done 
anything wrong by not doing so in the former situation  following transfer to ReAssure   
because it wasnt required to do so.  Whilst I appreciate Mr Hs concerns about security Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that there were any security breaches. 
In any event, even if there had been some obligation to request documents at the outset, 
given that this has been rectified by a subsequent request for documents, and no suggestion 
that his accounts compromised, I wouldnt be asking the business to do anything in any 
case.  
I appreciate that Mr H feels concern about other non-UK resident account holders in similar 
situations where ReAssure has taken over ownership of accounts from other businesses, but 
thats not something I can consider in this complaint. In any case, I cant say ReAssure has 
done anything wrong in this instance. 
Im aware that Mr H is unhappy about the way his complaint has been dealt with, but 
complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and therefore not something I can consider in 
this instance.  
I appreciate Mr H will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint and give him what he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman