DRN-1514402
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy about the work carried out by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV) when he claimed on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr N had a water leak in his bathroom. He contacted LV to make a claim on his home 
insurance policy. LV appointed a contractor to carry out repairs.
A month later Mr N contacted LV as he felt his home had been left in an unsafe condition 
during the works because some damaged joists and floor boards in the bathroom still 
needed replacing. LV said that the floor was safe and that the floorboards needed to dry 
before they could be replaced.
The works were completed after a further month or so. Shortly afterwards, Mr N noticed a 
crack in the kitchen ceiling where it had been repaired as part of the claim. He said there 
was also debris left on the kitchen counters. The contractor cleared the rubbish and repaired 
the kitchen ceiling. 
The contractor damaged some vinyl flooring in the kitchen while it was carrying out some 
work. It paid for the vinyl flooring to be replaced. Mr N also paid for some snagging issues 
to be dealt with in the bathroom. He invoiced the contractor for these works, which it paid.
Mr N complained to LV. He was unhappy about the quality of works, the debris left in his 
home, that not all of the rotten floorboards were replaced and how long the works took. Mr N 
also felt that he had to push the claim forward and that the way it was dealt with had caused 
a lot of inconvenience to him and his family. LV apologised to Mr N for how his claim was 
handled and offered him £300 compensation.
Mr N complained to this service. Our investigator upheld Mr Ns complaint and said that LV 
should pay him £500 for the trouble and upset caused by how it had handled his claim.
LV did not agree that the level of compensation should be increased, so the complaint has 
been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LV doesnt dispute that there were a number of issues with how this claim was handled. The 
main issue is the level of compensation that should be paid.
Mr N had to deal with a range of issues including work that was not completed to a good 
enough standard the first time, additional damage to his home when the vinyl flooring was 
damaged and having to pay for snagging issues in the bathroom to be repaired and then 
invoicing for these. Mr N also had to regularly chase up for progress on resolving his claim, 
which he says caused him stress. The issues with the quality of the works meant that more than two months were added on to the time taken to get everything resolved to a satisfactory 
standard.
Putting things right
Having thought about these issues as a whole, I think that the compensation should be 
increased to £500. It took LV a long time to resolve the claim from when it was first opened 
to when all of the issues were resolved. This included Mr N having to deal with a number of 
problems when the works were not done to a high enough standard and arranging for some 
of the work to be done himself and then claiming the money back. On that basis, I think this 
amount more fairly reflects the trouble and upset caused to Mr N. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr N £500 compensation. If it has 
already paid him the £300 it previously offered, it should pay him the remaining £200, so that 
he receives £500 in total.
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr N accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr N how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr N a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman