DRN-3015528
The complaint
Mrs C complains that having made a claim using her home emergency policy to clear a 
blocked drain, Aviva Insurance Limited failed to ensure that sewage had been cleaned from 
her home.
Mrs C is represented by Mrs H in this complaint. I will refer to Mrs C for ease of reading in 
my decision.
What happened
Mrs C noticed a problem with a blocked drain in April 2021. She contacted Aviva and it 
arranged for an engineer to visit. It took two visits to remove the blockage. During this work 
sewage was drawn up into Mrs Cs home. The engineers footwear became contaminated 
and unfortunately the sewage was walked through several rooms, causing a bad smell 
throughout the property.
The day after the blockage was reported Mrs C moved out to stay with her daughter. She 
says she did this because the smell was intolerable, and the contamination posed a risk to 
her health. Mrs C contacted Aviva to complain. The company then arranged for a deep 
clean of the affected areas. She didnt think the cleaning was adequate, as the smell 
remained. Another engineer was sent to assess whether there was still a blockage causing 
the smell. 
No further blockage was found, but Aviva arranged a second deep clean. Mrs C remained 
dissatisfied with the second attempt at cleaning. Aviva offered a compensation payment of 
£500 for the inconvenience caused, including the need for her to stay elsewhere during this 
time. Mrs C suggested that a contamination test should be carried out. Aviva said it would 
consider this further, if a test was arranged by Mrs C. Mrs C then referred her complaint to 
this service.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He felt that overall Aviva had acted fairly 
and in line with the terms of the policy. He raised some concerns that the engineers didnt 
take adequate precautions to prevent sewage from being spread. He also highlighted some 
errors on Avivas part in arranging appointments and also providing confusing information. 
But he didnt uphold the complaint as he felt the action Aviva had already taken was fair.     
Mrs C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I realise this will be 
disappointing for her, but I will explain why I think this is fair. 
Mrs C says that when the engineers carried out work, they didnt wear shoe coverings. In 
addition, she says they carried equipment, contaminated with sewage, throughout her home. 
She says this caused sewage to be spread throughout her home leaving a strong smell. 
Mrs C is registered disabled and elderly and I can understand why this matter caused her, 
and her family, to worry.
The deep clean took place within two weeks of Mrs C first reporting the blockage. Ideally this 
wouldnt have been needed. I take note of Mrs Cs comments that the engineers didnt wear 
shoe coverings or take precautions to prevent sewage dripping from equipment when it was 
carried through the house. 
Its reasonable to accept that some sewage may enter the home in the area where the drain 
was being unblocked. However, from the information supplied, its probable that had 
reasonable precautions been taken, the contaminant wouldnt have spread through the 
property.    
That said, the records indicate Aviva responded in a reasonable timeframe to arrange an 
inspection and followed this up with appropriate cleaning. This took place toward the end of 
April 2021. I note Aviva wrote to Mrs C after this to offer compensation. Initially for £400, 
which was increased to £500.  
Unfortunately, Mrs C and her family felt the cleaning was inadequate and made further 
contact with Aviva in May 2021. They said there was still a strong smell of sewage present in 
the property. And this meant it wasnt possible for Mrs C to return to her home. 
In mid-June Aviva arranged for an engineer to attend Mrs Cs home to see if the smell could 
be the result of a blockage that remained in the drain. No blockage was found. At this time 
Mrs C asked if a contamination test could be carried out. This was not agreed. However, 
Aviva did arrange for a further deep clean of the property, which was carried out at the end 
of June. 
Aviva then sent a further complaint response to Mrs C. It apologised that she was unhappy 
with the initial cleaning work. But said its cleaning agents had reported there was no bad 
smell on site after the second deep clean was completed.
I understand Mrs C is reluctant to return to her property as she can still detect a smell. Aviva 
suggested she should arrange for a test if she was still concerned. However, its view based 
on the information from its cleaning agent, is that this wasnt necessary.
I have thought about whether Mrs Cs request for Aviva to arrange a test is reasonable. 
It was the actions of the engineers that resulted in elements of sewage being spread through 
the house, and this was avoidable. I dont dispute Mrs Cs account that a smell persists in 
her home. I cant think why she would say this if it werent the case. Given the inconvenience 
this has created with her living arrangements considering her disability.
We asked Aviva if it would arrange for a contamination test. It said because of the time 
elapsed it didnt see how this would be useful. It said its test would not differentiate different 
types of bacteria to understand if it related to contamination from sewage. It also said given 
the time since its last clean, bacteria unrelated to the drain blockage could be present now 
anyway.   
I think Aviva makes a fair point. Around five months have elapsed since the problem 
occurred. From research online, I understand that bacteria associated with sewage, is unlikely to live for this period on surfaces or soft furnishings. Im not an expert in this area. 
However, I must consider what is reasonable based on the circumstances and information 
available. I dont think the test will show that bacteria present in the property now is linked to 
the work carried out in April.     
In considering this, and the fact that the property has been sanitised on two occasions, I 
dont think its reasonable to ask Aviva to pay for a contamination test. I note its offer to 
review the situation, if Mrs C provides evidence that it is responsible for harmful bacteria 
being present in her home. I think its fair that Mrs C has the option to pursue this further if 
she chooses.    
Finally, Mrs C is not satisfied with the compensation she received. She says this should 
reflect the cost of a hotel for the period she has been out of her home. 
Mrs Cs home is set up to accommodate her disability. She says a hotel will not have been a 
viable option. Her daughters home is not set up in the same way either, but she considers 
this was the best alternative in the circumstances. Its fortunate that this option was available 
to her.
I acknowledge this has been a difficult and distressing time for Mrs C and its appropriate 
that compensation is provided to recognise the problems Aviva initially caused. However, the 
company has provided compensation for £500. It responded in a timely manner to arrange 
cleaning to take place. And when Mrs C raised concerns, further cleaning was arranged at 
its expense. I think it responded appropriately.   
I sympathise with the situation Mrs C has found herself in. However, I think Aviva was fair in 
arranging cleaning, and paying compensation for £500. I also think its evident the company 
did what it could to expedite matters, given Mrs C is elderly and has a disability. In 
considering all of this, I cant reasonably ask Aviva to do more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman