DRN-4323026
Complaint
Mr D has complained about a personal loan National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and so his application should have been 
rejected.
Background
NatWest provided Mr D with a loan for £5,000.00 in September 2019. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £141.74. One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr D 
and NatWest had told us and thought that NatWest hadnt done anything wrong or treated 
Mr D unfairly. Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ds complaint.
NatWest needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr D 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
NatWest says it agreed to Mr Ds application after he provided details of his monthly income 
and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on 
a credit search it carried out and Mr Ds bank statement which he was asked to provide. In 
its view, all of this information showed Mr D could afford to make the repayments he was 
committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr D has said he should never have been provided with this loan 
because of his existing financial position.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr D and NatWest have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that NatWest does appear to have carried out credit checks. 
So I dont think that this was a case of NatWest simply accepting an over-optimistic 
declaration of monthly disposable income at face value. NatWests credit searches also did 
show that Mr D had some existing debts. But Ive not seen anything to indicate that that 
werent being maintained. And Mr Ds own submissions indicate that his previous credit card 
had been brought up to date in 2018. 
 
Furthermore, having looked at Mr Ds bank account transactions, I cant see anything 
obvious on them which indicated Mr D wouldnt be able to make the repayments to this loan. 
Indeed, they appeared to suggest that he had the disposable income to be able to make the 
repayments required here.
I appreciate that Mr D was overdrawn. And Im satisfied that this is something that NatWest 
ought to have known about and had regard of. But even though Mr W was overdrawn, I dont 
that this meant that NatWest shouldnt have lent, as Mr D could have cleared his overdraft 
with some of the funds from this loan  especially as it had a lower interest rate. 
Furthermore, if Mr W is unhappy at how long hed been overdrawn for, this is a matter hell 
have to take up with NatWest in the first instance.
I accept that Mr D says he experienced difficulty making the payments and I understand he 
may have been in council tax arrears at the time. Im sorry to hear this. But I cant see how 
NatWest would have known about this and it could only make a reasonable decision based 
on the information it had available at the time. As this is the case, I dont think that NatWest 
did anything wrong when deciding to lend to  Mr D - it carried out proportionate checks and 
reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that NatWest treated Mr D unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr D. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman