DRN-3974956
The complaint
Miss A complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money is holding her liable for 
a cash machine withdrawal that was made fraudulently. She is also unhappy with 
Virgin Moneys handling of her fraud claim when she reported the matter to them. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Miss A would like Virgin Money to refund a cash machine transaction (inclusive of charges) 
of £251.99 which debited her account in October 2022. Miss A says she gave her debit card, 
and shared the associated PIN, with a handyman so that he could purchase some materials. 
Instead, he stole from her by withdrawing money from a cash machine. Miss A reported 
this to Virgin Money and the police. Virgin Money declined Miss As fraud claim. It didnt 
agree to a refund.         
Miss A complained about Virgin Moneys decision to decline her fraud claim and its handling 
of the matter. 
Virgin Money maintained that its decision to decline Miss As fraud claim was correct. But it 
agreed that it should not have recorded the medical information Miss A had shared with it 
without her consent, and that the overall service provided whilst handling her claim could 
have been better. It apologised for the poor service; removed the information it had recorded 
on its systems about her medical condition; and made a compensation payment of £50 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Miss A remained unhappy. She referred her complaint to our service. Our Investigator 
looked into things. She didnt uphold Miss As complaint. She said despite the handyman 
using Miss As card beyond what was agreed, as shed provided her card and PIN and given 
him the authority to use the card under the relevant regulations the transaction was 
considered authorised. So Virgin Money were not being unfair or unreasonable by holding 
her liable for the disputed cash withdrawal. She also concluded that the £50 given for 
distress and inconvenience caused by Virgin Moneys actions whilst handling Miss As fraud 
claim was fair. 
Miss A disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will not be asking Virgin Money to refund the disputed cash withdrawal, 
nor will I be making a greater award for compensation. I know that my decision will be 
disappointing, so Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I want to assure Miss A that Ive read and considered the whole file. But as the 
purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues. If I dont mention any specific 
point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome. This isnt intended as 
a discourtesy; our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service.
Fraud claim outcome
I accept Miss A has reported the matter to the police and is pursuing the matter criminally 
against the person whom she gave her card and PIN to. But simply because Miss A has 
been the victim of a crime doesnt entitle her to a refund from Virgin Money.  
I note Miss A says shes been informed by the police that banks are meant to cover theft of 
this nature. She also believes as the money was stolen, she is entitled to a refund under the 
banks insurance. I think what Miss A might be referring to here is the requirement for 
payment service providers (PSPs) such as Virgin Money to provide a refund for an 
unauthorised transaction. The regulation that is relevant when considering this matter is the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). In short, they say consumers are generally 
liable for a payment transaction theyve authorised. And financial businesses like 
Virgin Money will usually be required to refund the amount of an unauthorised payment 
transaction, and where applicable, restore the debited payment account to the state it would 
have been in had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place. 
The PSRs also say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Miss A can be treated as 
acting with apparent authority when making transactions on their account.
Authority consists of two elements. These are set out in the PSRs and say for a payment 
transaction to be authorised it must be correctly authenticated, and the payer (here Miss A) 
needs to have given consent to it. 
Its not in dispute that Miss As genuine card and PIN were used to authenticate the cash 
withdrawal, so I wont comment further on this. 
Turning to consent, Ive taken on board Miss As point that shed not agreed for the 
handyman to use her card in the way in which he did. But by giving the handyman her card 
and PIN to make a purchase Miss A granted apparent authority to the handyman. So, in 
these circumstances the cash withdrawal is treated as authorised. 
As a victim I appreciate this may feel unfair to Miss A, but as the cash withdrawal was 
authorised for the purpose of the PSRs I cant say Virgin Money, by holding Miss A liable, 
and not providing a refund, have treated her unfairly.  
For completeness Ive considered  and am satisfied  that there werent any other schemes 
under which Miss A could have received a refund of the stolen money (disputed cash 
withdrawal transaction).  Handling of the fraud claim
Miss A says that she is unhappy that a member of Virgin Moneys Fraud Team thought 
being disabled was an issue that contributed to her being robbed and recorded notes to 
this effect and about her medical condition without her consent. She has also expressed her 
dissatisfaction with the standard of Virgin Moneys communication and the call waiting times 
she experienced when trying to speak to someone about her fraud claim. 
Virgin Money have said Miss A spoke to one of its agents about her fraud claim on 
1 November 2022. During this call Miss A discussed her medical condition  and how it 
affects her. Virgin Money say whilst their agent asked if this information could be recorded, 
they didnt go far enough in explaining what this meant. It accepts the agent failed to 
establish if the notes could be recorded permanently and in a way which covered all of 
Miss As accounts.  
In response to Miss As complaint Virgin Money explained under its obligation to support its 
customers, when made aware of medical conditions (with appropriate consent) it would 
record this information, along with any additional support needs they might have. The reason 
for this was to ensure their staff are aware and to avoid customers having to repeat 
themselves every time they call. It also tried to provide assurances that the information 
Miss A had shared about her medical condition had no bearing on the outcome of her fraud 
claim. 
Virgin Money apologised and paid £50 compensation for the upset any questions asked may 
have caused Miss A and for the wait times she experienced when calling to speak with the 
Fraud Team. Upon her request it also removed the information it had recorded on its 
systems about her medical condition.  
I understand Miss A feels strongly that Virgin Money have acted unlawfully by recording her 
medical information without appropriate consent. And she still believes she has been 
discriminated against because of her medical condition. I can understand why Miss A feels 
this way given the problems she has experienced. But having carefully considered 
everything I think Virgin Moneys agents actions were with the intent (albeit incorrectly 
actioned) of trying to help and support Miss A. And upon Miss A expressing her discontent 
with Virgin Money holding a record of her medical condition I can see that it took the 
appropriate steps to have this information removed. Im also satisfied Virgin Moneys 
knowledge of Miss As medical condition has not influenced nor impacted the outcome of her 
fraud claim. 
With that being said, I accept Virgin Money provided Miss A poor customer service and this 
has caused her trouble and upset. But this is not a basis upon which I can fairly direct 
Virgin Money to refund the sum which Miss A says has been stolen from her via the 
disputed cash withdrawal. I think Virgin Moneys recognition of how this might have made 
Miss A feel; apologising for the mistakes it has made; taking steps to put things right when 
informed; and the payment of £50 compensation is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this 
matter. 
Despite my natural sympathy for the situation Miss A finds herself in, there isnt a reasonable 
basis upon which I can tell Virgin Money they need to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman