DRN-2980269
The complaint
Company W is unhappy how Tide Platform Ltd dealt with the closure of a business account. 
Company W is being represented in this complaint by Mr D, a director of Company W.
What happened
On 11 July 2020, Company W asked Tide to close its account with them. But Tide didnt do 
this, and Company W subsequently complained the account was still open. Tide upheld the 
complaint on 12 December 2020, and the account was closed shortly afterwards.
Company W wasnt happy with the delay in closing the account and brought their complaint 
to us for investigation. They said the time theyd spent dealing with this matter exceeded 100 
hours, and almost resulted in the Company W having to cease trading.
Our investigator said Tide shouldve closed the account sooner. But, because he hadnt 
seen anything to show how long Company W spent dealing with this matter, or what impact 
the failure to close the account sooner had on Company W, he didnt think Tide needed to 
pay Company W any compensation. 
The investigator also said that, as the complaint related to Company W and their account 
with Tide, he wasnt able to consider any impact the delay may have had on Mr D.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He said the time he spent dealing with this matter 
was time he wasnt able to spend in the business. So he thinks he should be compensated 
for this. He also said that Tide should be able to provide evidence of the time he spent 
dealing with this matter, and he considers it fishy that they havent done so.
Because Mr D didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Ive seen a copy of the 12 December 2020 letter from Tide, (although dated 12 December 
2021 in error), responding to Company Ws complaint. In this letter Tide said that Company 
W had asked to close their account on 11 July 2020. Tide explained theyd asked Company 
W to reduce the account balance to zero, download any statements Company W wanted to 
keep, and then provide them with some specific information so the account could be closed.
Tide go on to say that Company W didnt provide the specific information, so the account 
wasnt closed. However, given the complaint, Tide said they would now arrange to close the 
account, as originally requested in July 2020.
Despite being asked by us for further information, and having a regulatory obligation to 
provide this, Tide didnt do so. While I appreciate Mr D considers this is fishy, the lack of 
additional information doesnt mean that Tide are trying to hide something. And I cant 
uphold a complaint on the lack of evidence alone. I have to rely on what both parties have 
told me and make my decision on what I believe is more likely than not to have happened.
In their letter of 12 December 2020, Tide said they didnt have any record of Company W 
contacting them about the failure to close the account, and they only have records of contact 
in April 2020 (relating to a different issue). Im aware that Company W have said they spent 
over 100 hours chasing Tide about the account closure, but I havent seen any evidence that 
Company W chased Tide before they contacted us.
Whats more, I havent seen anything to show me that Company W provided Tide with the 
specific information they requested in July 2020, in order to close the account down. And, 
despite being asked for this, I havent seen any evidence that Company W suffered any 
detriment as a result of the delay in closing the account, or that they spent an excessive 
amount of time dealing with this matter.
Because of this, and as its not disputed that the account has now been closed, Im satisfied 
that Tide closing the account was reasonable in all of the circumstances. And I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
Mr D has said that the time he spent dealing with this matter was time he wasnt able to 
spend operating Company W. And Company W almost ceased trading as a result. While I 
appreciate that Mr D had to deal with this matter, he did so as a director of Company W. And 
dealing with Company Ws finances form part of operating the business.
Company W and Mr D are separate legal entities, and Company W is the customer of Tide, 
not Mr D. Because of this, Im only able to consider the impact on Company W. For the 
reasons stated above, Im satisfied that Company W werent adversely impacted by the 
delay in closing the account. So I wont be asking Tide to pay Company W any 
compensation for the delay.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Company Ws complaint about Tide Platform 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman