DRN-2025006
The complaint
Ms G complains that EBS Pensions Limited (EBS Pensions) left the funds that had been 
transferred to her self-invested personal pension (SIPP), in cash  even after a stockbroker 
was appointed to invest the funds in April 2016. She wants to be compensated for the 
investment loss she says shes suffered up to the point she became aware her funds were 
still held in cash. 
What happened
Ms G held a number of pension plans. In 2015 she completed an application for a new SIPP 
with EBS Pensions to accommodate the staged transfer of the pensions. Within the 
application form, under the section requesting details of an investment strategy, it was noted 
that Ms G was planning to invest into a stockbroker nominee account and no details were 
provided for the investment of the funds. 
In April 2016 Ms G completed a SIPP agreement form with the third-party stockbroker  who 
was only authorised to advise on the investment strategy within the SIPP. This agreement 
contained details of the investment advisory service the broker offered and recorded 
information about Ms Gs attitude to risk, experience of investments and her financial 
situation. It gave the broker authority to act on Ms Gs behalf.
Ms G says she received a SIPP statement in 2016 which correctly confirmed no investment 
had been made with her funds from one of the transfers for £101,927.46. She says she 
didnt receive statements in 2017 and 2018 as she had moved to a new house  but said 
she did update EBS Pensions with her new address. She says she received an email in 
November 2018, in which she learnt that the funds were still held in the SIPP bank account. 
Ms G contacted her broker who contacted EBS Pensions and funds from two other transfers 
 one to the value of £90,576.25 was sent to the stockbroker in December 2018, and 
another for £58,414.29 was sent in April 2019. 
The final transfer for £224,788.28 was made in February 2020.
 
But Ms G complained to EBS Pensions as she thought it should have taken steps to notify 
her that the SIPP remained invested in cash until late 2018 and should have sought an 
investment instruction from her.
But EBS Pensions didnt uphold the complaint. It said its terms and conditions (T&Cs) 
stipulated that it couldnt give financial advice and that Ms G needed to specify what 
investments she wanted to make. It said it had made Ms G aware that it had received her 
funds and that it didnt hold any investment instruction. It said it did transfer the funds to a 
third party for investment when it received Ms Gs instructions in December 2018 and in 
April 2019.
Ms G didnt agree. She said shed provided the details of her broker after she first applied to 
transfer her funds and would have expected EBS Pensions to have contacted her to see if 
the funds should be transferred or at least to make her aware that the funds remained 
uninvested. She said she was also concerned that her funds had ultimately been transferred 
at her brokers request and not hers. She thought shed lost out on approximately 30% of 
investment growth. 
So, she brought her complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into the matter. 
He said there was no evidence to demonstrate that EBS Pensions had received an 
instruction to invest Ms Gs funds until late 2018  and that from 2016 to 2018 shed received 
annual statements which confirmed that the funds were invested in cash. So, he didnt think 
EBS Pensions had done anything wrong and he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Ms G didnt agree. She made the following points:
She provided evidence from the stockbroker who explained the steps he would 
expect the SIPP administrator to take in such circumstances. She said that EBS 
Pensions should have contacted her to establish what proportion of her funds she 
wished to invest, and that its actions showed that it didnt follow standard 
administrative responsibility. 
She said EBS Pensions should have expected the money to be invested and should 
have checked with her much sooner than the two years that it did wait.
EBS Pensions didnt update its systems with her new address when she first 
contacted it, which compounded the administrative problem. 
EBS contacted her stockbroker to find out the amount of growth she may have lost 
over the matter. She thought that was unusual behaviour from an administrator.
She didnt think EBS Pensions had the authority to accept an instruction from the 
stockbroker. She thought it had to come from her. 
The investigator reiterated his view that EBS Pensions T&Cs didnt say that it needed to 
contact a customer to confirm investment decisions. He said that, while it might be good 
customer service to do so, it wasnt a requirement. He also confirmed that he thought EBS 
Pensions had updated Ms Gs address in a timely manner and showed how it had provided 
annual statements which demonstrated that the money was held in cash.
Ms G said she wanted her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman making the following 
points:
EBS Pensions had sufficient instructions from her to send the money to her broker 
for investment. Subsequent deposits shes made to the SIPP have always led to her 
being asked if she wants the money to be invested by the broker.
She had no reason to think the funds hadnt been invested. Because she moved to a 
new house and because EBS Pensions didnt update her address she didnt receive 
the two annual statements which would have confirmed to her the money remained 
in cash. 
EBS Pensions had apologised to her regarding an administrative error and 
contacted the stockbroker about any prospective investment loss. She didnt 
understand why EBS Pensions would have done that unless it knew it had made a 
mistake.
As no resolution could be found the complaint has been passed to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I can 
see the strength of feeling Ms G has about this matter and I have some sympathy for her 
position whereby her funds remained uninvested for a significant period. But I dont think that 
was EBS Pensions fault, which I know isnt the outcome Ms G was hoping for  so Ill 
explain my reasons.
Should ESB Pensions have made Ms G more aware her funds hadnt been invested?
ESB Pensions T&Cs state We are not authorised to give investment or financial advice. 
You must direct the manner in which the funds within your arrangements are to be invested. 
Neither the Trustees nor we accept any liability for any decisions relating to the purchase, 
retention and sale of the investments within your Members Fund. 
And the declaration within the SIPP application form also set out a similar position. It said I 
understand that neither (the SIPP provider) nor the trustees are regulated by the FSA to 
provide investment or financial advice. (the SIPP provider) will neither review advice from an 
appointed official nor review the financial status or risk and investment strategies of any 
nominated investment manager. 
So, I think it was clear that although EBS Pension received the funds  in cash  from the 
ceding pension schemes, it had no authorisation to invest the money. The application form 
noted that the investment strategy was to be carried out by a stockbroker and no reference 
was made either to the funds to be invested in or the amount to be invested. In any case 
EBS Pensions would have been unaware of exactly how the funds were to be invested as 
that was the stockbrokers role. All EBS Pensions could have done was to make made Ms G 
and the broker aware that the funds were held in the SIPP  which I think it did through the 
annual statements.
Ms G says that EBS Pensions ought to have contacted her to ensure she knew the funds 
were ready to be invested. But I dont think EBS Pensions was obliged or indeed authorised 
to have further involvement in the investment strategy or to advise that investment hadnt 
been made. When the first transfer was made no instruction had been received about a third 
party being involved in the investment strategy, so I think that any attempt to contact Ms G 
about uninvested funds could have been viewed as an attempt to give investment advice. 
So, I dont think it would been appropriate for EBS Pensions to contact Ms G for that reason. 
And, subsequently when the broker instruction had been provided to ESB Pensions, I think it 
was for Ms G and her stockbroker to then make those decisions when they were ready to do 
so, as long as they were aware that the funds had been transferred  which Ms G accepts 
was the case from the statement she received in 2016, which noted the value of the SIPP 
and that it was held in a bank account within the SIPP.
I havent seen any evidence which obliged EBS Pensions to communicate with Ms G about 
the ongoing status of her funds or to make her aware of the lack of investment. I know Ms G 
believes that EBS Pensions had a duty of care to do this, but I havent seen any evidence to 
say that it was required to do so, and I cant safely say that it should have made Ms G more 
aware or that it did anything wrong over that matter. 
The other issues including not updating Ms Gs address and non-receipt of annual 
statements.Ms G says she didnt receive annual SIPP statements from 2017 and 2018 so she wasnt 
aware that her first transfer was still held in cash. 
But Ive seen the annual SIPP statement from March 2018 which showed the funds, valued 
at £103,365.49, were invested into the Trustee bank account. This statement was sent to the 
correct address for Ms G at that time. So, although I dont dispute what Ms G says I cant 
say that ESB Pensions didnt satisfy its obligation to provide the statement  and if it had 
been received it would have told Ms G that her funds remained in cash. 
Ms G says EBS Pensions didnt update her new address when she informed it of the change 
and that this administrative error compounded the situation especially in respect of receiving 
statements. So, Ive carefully considered a copy of Ms Gs request to change her address  
dated 28 September 2017. I can see this was followed by a request for proof of address from 
EBS Pensions and then confirmation that its records had been updated with the new 
address the following day. I note this request was made after the 2017 SIPP statement had 
been sent out, and that the next statement to be issued (2018) was sent to the new address. 
So, Im not persuaded that EBS Pensions didnt update Gs address in a timely manner and I 
dont think it did anything wrong here.  
 
EBS Pensions did accept that it sent its final response letter to Ms Gs previous address 
having taken the address from the original SIPP application. I can understand why this might 
have caused Ms G some level of frustration. But the letter wasnt about the statements or 
correspondence about the investment strategy  so I dont think it would have had much of 
an impact on the situation, although I think it was an unfortunate error to have made.
 
Ms G says that, while EBS Pensions says it was waiting for her to give an investment 
instruction, it did accept her brokers instructions to make the later transfers available for 
investment. She says it shouldnt have done this without her authorisation. But EBS 
Pensions T&Cs allow for this as they state, Where I have appointed an investment adviser, 
I agree that (the SIPP provider) should accept instructions pertaining to all scheme 
investments as though received directly from me.. So, as the first transfer was completed, 
without any investment instruction, before the broker was appointed by Ms G in 2016, EBS 
Pensions was unable to do anything except hold the funds in cash awaiting instruction. But 
the T&Cs also confirmed it was possible to nominate one or more investment 
managers/advisers to act on an advisory/discretionary basis in the exercise of any 
investment decision/direction. So, when the broker was appointed in 2016 it was then 
authorised by Ms G to make requests for transfers and invest on her behalf.  
So, I dont think EBS Pensions acted unfairly in how it treated Ms G (and her brokers) 
requests for the funds. 
What Ms G and her broker think should have happened
Ms G says her broker thinks EBS Pensions ought to have taken four different steps in order 
to transfer the pensions and provide funds ready for investment. Ive looked carefully at what 
the brokers said and, in my view, EBS Pensions did:
Request the application form from the broker.
Know that the process of appointing the broker was complete.
Contact Ms G in 2016, through an annual statement, to confirm the amount that had 
been transferred. 
Thereafter the stockbroker said, I would expect further attempts are made to ensure the 
SIPP member is able to proceed with their stated investment strategy. However, while that may have been his expectation of what might happen, based on his 
previous experience, theres no evidence to show that was a part of the process in this case. 
But in any case, I think the statement from 2016  which confirmed the transfer had taken 
place and the money remained in cash, was a clear indication to Ms G that she was able to 
proceed with her investment strategy.
Ultimately here I think EBS Pensions carried out the transfers as requested and held the 
funds, in cash, awaiting an investment instruction. This instruction should have come from 
Ms G and/or her broker but I dont think EBS Pensions was obliged to do anymore than it did 
to make Ms G aware that her transfer fund had been received and could be invested. And I 
havent seen any evidence of errors in the way EBS Pensions carried out the ancillary 
administrative tasks, such as updating Ms Gs address and sending annual statements to 
the correct address at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman