DRN-4090413
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the service provided by Nationwide Building Society following several 
declined credit card transactions.
What happened
Mr L attempted to book a hire car using an online broker/comparison site. He tried to pay 
using his Nationwide credit card but the transaction was unsuccessful. 
Nationwide wrote to Mr L to let him know the transaction had been declined and the reason 
why. The reason given was: SCA Authentication Required. The letter advised Mr L to 
contact the merchant to arrange an alternative method of payment and/or cancel the card 
payment instruction to avoid it happening again. Mr L had already called Nationwide to 
discuss the payment failure before the letter had arrived in the post and a second attempt to 
collect the payment by the merchant the next day had been successful. Mr L was concerned 
that he could have paid the merchant twice, given the letter instructed him to arrange 
another way of paying.
Mr L complained to Nationwide in March 2022. Whilst Mr Ls complaint was ongoing, other 
online transactions he attempted using his Nationwide credit card continued not to go 
through. Mr L was unhappy with, amongst other things, the various reasons given for the 
declined credit card transactions when he had called, which included placing full 
responsibility with the card scheme operator, an incorrect assumption Mr L was using a 
virtual private network, and a suggestion that he could call 15 minutes ahead of making a 
transaction.  
Mr L is unhappy at Nationwides use of the acronym SCA  secure customer authentication 
 without an explanation of its meaning, and Nationwide using the post to notify him of the 
failed transactions. Mr L is also unhappy at the messages he received via the banking app 
which included the terminology CATECH 3-D secured and no explanation of what it meant.
To resolve the problem, Mr L requested a replacement credit card as this potential solution 
had been suggested to him by another of his banks. Nationwide has said since that Mr L has 
recently made payments online without any apparent problems.
Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It considers it operated Mr Ls credit card account 
in line with its terms and conditions, namely it can stop any transaction if it feels it has 
reasonable grounds to do so. This prompted Mr L to refer the matter to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
As the investigator also did not think his complaint should be upheld and Mr L did not agree, 
the matter has been passed to me to decide. Since starting my review, I asked for 
Nationwides call recordings of its conversations with Mr L  and I must thank Mr L for his 
patience whilst I waited for these to be made available. 
In my provisional decision I explained that:
 we were set up as an informal and free alternative to the courts. I make decisions on the 
facts and evidence available in each case. And the decision I come to on what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case may be different to what a court would 
decide applying legal rules.
It may also help if I explain for Mr L that this service was set up to consider individual 
complaints, so its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to make findings about a 
businesss wider practices or processes  that is something for the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to do, and they have the power to fine and punish businesses 
where appropriate. 
Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account the: 
(1) relevant: 
 (a) law and regulations; 
 (b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
 (c) codes of practice; and 
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
Having done all of that, Im intending to reach a different conclusion to the one reached by 
our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, which is Mr L could no longer use 
his credit card to make payments online from 13 March 2022. I do think Nationwide has 
failed to recognise this as Mr Ls fundamental complaint. It has instead focussed on his 
supplementary concerns, which, I think it is fair to say, were borne out of Mr Ls utter 
frustration at not having a fully functioning credit card and at the absence of Nationwide 
taking responsibility to resolve the problem (regardless of whether it was ultimately 
responsible for causing it).
I note from the submissions that both parties to this dispute are now familiar with the 
requirements under Payment Services Regulations 2017 for implementing Strong Customer 
Authentication (SCA), with Mr L having completed his own research in addition to the 
information Nationwide provided in its final response. So I see no need to provide the same 
background information again here. I see that Mr Ls problems began the day before the 
regulators  the FCA  deadline for implementing SCA for e-commerce transactions on 14 
March 2022. But of course, Nationwide would have needed to implement SCA long before 
then  in September 2019  for non-e-commerce transactions and so it wasnt a new or 
unfamiliar process for the building society. 
Nationwides response only considered the first declined transaction. But having listened to 
calls between Mr L and Nationwide, I am aware of at least three further blocked online 
transactions to different merchants over the same week, all of which he subsequently raised 
with Nationwide as part of this complaint. And so, I can see how Mr L got the impression his 
card had been blocked because he couldnt use it to pay for things online. Instead, 
Nationwide told him that the transactions had been declined, or had been challenged by the 
card scheme operator, or had been blocked because:
-The merchant had failed to adopt the correct security protocols.
-The card scheme operator challenged the transactions because Mr L attempted each 
payment via a different IP address and/or using an unfamiliar device.
-He had accessed internet via a VPN (Virtual Private Network).I accept it is possible all the merchants Mr L attempted to pay had failed to adopt the correct 
security protocols. And I accept Nationwides account terms and conditions entitle it to 
decline transactions with reasonable cause for doing so. But I must also weigh these up 
against: 
-the first declined transaction went through the next day after that merchant attempted to 
collect the payment a second time;
-Mr L is adamant that he doesnt access internet via a VPN and that he had been using 
his regular devices; 
-Mr L could complete the declined transactions by using a different providers payment 
card (accessing the internet the same way using his regular devices); and
-the fact the problem went away (as far as I can tell) after Mr L, of his own volition, 
requested a replacement credit card (with all other parameters remaining the same). 
Having done so, I provisionally think the stronger of the competing evidence points to the 
more likely cause of Mr Ls declined payments as a problem with his Nationwide credit card 
 and not the merchants he attempted to pay online. Nationwide can let me know if and why 
this is wrong when it responds to this provisional decision. 
I have also considered the service Mr L received from Nationwide. I have noted Mr Ls 
comments about Nationwide notifying him of the failed transaction by post and its use of 
jargon in its correspondence. I would like to think that Nationwide has taken on board his 
feedback in the spirit it was intended. I appreciate Mr Ls concern that, after receiving a letter 
by post advising him to contact the merchant to make alternative payment with the merchant 
having successfully claimed the payment on a second attempt, it could have led to him 
paying twice. This didnt happen  perhaps fortuitously so for Nationwide because I cant ask 
it to compensate Mr L for something that could have but did not happen. However, I dont 
doubt this all added to Mr Ls frustration.
And in the same way, I think receiving a text message asking Mr L to call whilst he was 
overseas to then be told upon calling on his return a week later that he had missed the 
three-day window in which to discuss his complaint, would also have further added to his 
dissatisfaction. More so, as the text message made no mention of the need to call within 
three days.
I do think Mr L should be compensated for the distress he was caused by not being able to 
make payments using his credit card online and Nationwide failing to take responsibility for 
resolving the problem. I also do not think Nationwide handled Mr Ls concerns particularly 
well. I think this will have caused additional distress and inconvenience and led to his 
complaint continuing for much longer than it should have.  
Putting things right
Overall, having considered both the impact on Mr L following the loss of use of his credit 
card to make payments online and Nationwides handling of his concerns, I currently think 
£350 would be fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr L has been caused. 
I consider compensation of this amount is fair where the impact of a mistake (or mistakes) 
has caused a distress, upset and worry and/or significant inconvenience and disruption over 
several weeks.  I think this describes Mr Ls experience following the poor service 
Nationwide provided him.Responses
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 24 April 2023. As both Nationwide and Mr L have responded, I see 
no reason to wait for this date to pass before continuing to determine this complaint.
Mr L has confirmed receiving the decision. He remained of the view that Nationwide had 
failed to show his complaint was untrue and did not have sufficient evidence to disprove it.
Nationwide has confirmed receiving the decision but did not wish to make any further 
representation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed everything again. Neither Mr L nor Nationwide have provided further evidence 
or new information for me to consider. So, Ive not seen enough for me to alter my 
provisional conclusions.
In his response, Mr L suggests that Nationwide did not have the telephone recordings to 
disprove his complaint. Nationwide did provide telephone recordings, and I have relied on 
these to reach my conclusions. Its unfortunate my insistence on listening to those calls has 
delayed matters but without them, I may not have reached this outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons set out here, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society must pay Mr L £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman