DRN-4345878
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) didnt process her ISA
transfer request in a timely manner.
What happened
Mrs M wanted to transfer £40,000 from her NS&I ISA to an ISA she held with another
provider and instructed the other provider to request the transfer accordingly. The other
provider submitted a transfer request to NS&I on 31 May 2022 by recorded delivery but
received no response. The other provider chased the transfer with NS&I on 21 June 2022,
and Mrs M raised a complaint about the matter on 1 July 2022.
NS&I responded to Mrs M and explained they hadnt received any transfer request from the
other provider and asked for it to be resubmitted. Mrs M wasnt satisfied with NS&Is
response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that the other provider had
been able to demonstrate that it had sent several items to NS&I by recorded delivery on 31
May 2022, and while the other provider hadnt retained which specific sent item was the
transfer request for Mrs M, they could demonstrate that all the recorded delivery items sent
that day were confirmed as being received by NS&I on the following day. As such, our
investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mrs Ms favour.
NS&I didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator and didnt
feel it could be confirmed that the other provider had sent the request as it maintained. So,
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 August 2023 as follows:
Its clear that there are several discrepancies between NS&Is explanation of what 
happened, and the version of events put forwards by the other provider. For instance, NS&I 
say that they never received the ISA transfer form from the other provider and that they 
notified the other provider that the form hadnt been received. On the other hand, the other 
provider say that they did send that form to NS&I and that they didnt receive any notice from 
NS&I that it hadnt been received until they chased NS&I themselves.
In situations such as this, where the testimonies of two parties sit in contradiction of one
another, I must decide which of the two versions of events I feel is most likely to have
happened, on balance, and in consideration of all the information available to me.
In this instance, I find NS&Is explanation that they didnt receive the form sent by the other
provider on 31 May 2022 to be the more persuasive. This is because while the other
provider has explained theyre certain the form was sent by recorded delivery to NS&I, they
are unable to provide an exact tracking number for the form. And I feel that this means that
while the other provider can evidence that the items it did send to NS&I were received by
NS&I, it cant evidence that one of those items was the ISA transfer form in question.
Additionally, NS&I have explained that all received mail is scanned upon receipt in the mail
room and that this means if an error had occurred, its more likely to have been that the form
was scanned to the wrong file, which would have been uncovered later when that file was
reviewed. 
Finally, on 30 January 2023 the other provider mailed an ISA transfer form to NS&I for Mrs
M. But this appears to have been the original form and is dated 26 May 2022 and isnt
marked as being a duplicate or copy. And if the other provider sent the original form to NS&I
in January 2023 then that form cant have been sent to NS&I previously. And I feel that this
further supports NS&s position that it didnt receive the form in the first instance.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs M has been inconvenienced and frustrated by whats happened
here. But my provisional decision is that I wont be upholding this complaint against NS&I. As
explained, this is because I feel its more likely than not, given what Ive described, that NS&I
didnt receive Mrs Ms ISA transfer form from the other provider in the first instance.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mrs M and NS&I the opportunity to respond and 
to provide any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved 
to issue a final decision.
Neither Mrs M nor NS&I provided any response. As such, I see no reason not to issue a final 
decision on this complaint whereby I do not uphold it, for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision. And I therefore confirm that I do not uphold this complaint accordingly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman