DRN-4099982
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as G has complained that Arch Insurance (UK) Limited unfairly 
declined its insurance claim on its Commercial Combined policy, as well as its actions when 
dealing with the claim. 
Mr D, a director of G, has brought the complaint on Gs behalf through a representative. For 
ease of reading, I will refer to any actions and comments of Mr D or Gs representative as 
being those of G. 
Reference to Arch, also includes the actions of its claim handling agent. 
What happened
G held a Commercial Combined insurance policy with Arch. On 9 February 2020, Gs 
premises were broken into and items stolen. 
Arch appointed a loss adjuster to look into the claim. Arch ultimately declined Gs claim as it 
said G had not complied with a condition within the policy. 
Unhappy with Arch, G brought its complaint to our service. G raised four complaint points 
which I have set out below. 
Decision on Gs claim
G said that its alarm system is set to call three keyholders. The keyholders are Mr D, a 
manager, and a caretaker who is not employed by G. G said that during the evening the 
alarm triggered three times but only called the caretaker, who I will refer to as C. C did not 
respond to the first trigger as they were unavailable. On receiving the second alert, C went to 
Gs premises and, as they could not see any evidence of a break-in, returned home. C 
switched his phone off and went to bed, meaning that he did not receive the call following 
the third trigger. 
G said it has asked for copies of the alarm logs as Mr D and a manager had not received 
calls. G said, if they had received calls then they would have attended the premises. 
G said Mr D had set the alarm when leaving the premises and it was its view that it had 
complied with the alarm condition. It said there must have been a fault in the system which 
must be due to the alarm company. G was unhappy that Arch had not contacted the alarm 
system to investigate whether the other keyholders had been contacted. It added, that if 
there was a fault in the system which was due to the alarm company, this would allow Arch 
to subrogate on the claim. 
Evidence
G said it had requested evidence from Arch on multiple occasions which was either delayed 
or incomplete. For example, G said its witnesses were asked to sign incorrect witness 
statements and when G asked for the call recordings to confirm what had been said, the 
recordings were incomplete. G said Arch refused to provide the complete call recordings. 
False statements
G said Arch gave false statements. In particular, that its witnesses had refused to return their 
witness statements which had been sent and received. G said Arch refused to show that 
these had been sent. G said it was not true that its witnesses had refused to sign the 
statements and this is supported by how quickly the statements were returned when they 
were received. 
Delays
G said there were delays throughout, such as Arch delaying in sending out witness 
statements for six weeks. 
In response, Arch said that it did not think it was relevant whether alarm calls had been 
made to all of the keyholders. It said calls had been made to one keyholder who had not 
attended the premises each time. Therefore, the policy condition had not been complied 
with. 
Arch said that its loss adjuster had sent out the witness statements on 30 March 2020 and 
chased a response on 15 April 2020, 30 April 2020 and 1 May 2020. It said if this resulted in 
it believing there had been a reluctance to sign it was a misunderstanding. Arch apologised 
for this. 
Arch accepted that the audio recordings of the interviews with the witnesses were 
incomplete. It said it had obtained copies from the loss adjuster and these were also 
incomplete. It said the loss adjusters IT department were looking into it but as the only 
available copies had been corrupted, there was nothing further it could do. 
Arch accepted there had been some delays with regard to obtaining the witness statements 
and them being signed. It said lockdown meant the loss adjuster needed to rearrange face to 
face interviews and it had passed it to a different investigator to speed things up. Arch said it 
would deal with this issue of the delay internally.  
Our Investigator looked into Gs complaint but did not recommend it be upheld. He thought 
that Arch had fairly declined Gs claim and he did not think that there had been a significant 
delay in obtaining the witnesses statements which had impacted the claim. He thought Arch 
had tried to chase up the witness statements after sending them and he did not think Arch 
had made an inaccurate statement in saying that they had not been returned. 
G did not agree with our Investigators view and as such its complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
G has provided a detailed response. My summary below is not intended to repeat each point 
although I have considered the entirety of its response. In summary, G said:
The interviews should have been carried out sooner and five weeks is not a 
reasonable amount of time. 
The screenshots showing the witness statements being sent did not prove their 
validity as they could easily be doctored. 
It does not believe that calls to the witnesses to chase up the statements had been 
made. It does not think our Investigator appreciates the gravity of the situation as it believes 
Arch has attempted to be wilfully obstructive to cover its tracks. 
Arch has confirmed that it made a false statement and it is not for our service to 
make excuses for Arch. Instances of defamatory or false statements should be 
considered a serious breach of conduct. 
Arch could have contacted the witnesses to return the statements and therefore this 
was an avoidable delay. Arch was requested to keep Gs broker in the loop with 
communications and it did not do so, leading to avoidable delays. 
The issue of the incomplete calls was not addressed. These recordings were 
necessary to evidence any alleged refusal of the witnesses to sign statements. 
Has our service asked for/received the full recordings? The calls reflect that Arch did 
not act in good faith throughout the process. 
There are three keyholders as each keyholder cant be constantly available. 
 C was not Gs employee. The alarm did not work and the other key holders were not 
called. Mr D is not an expert in security systems and could not have been aware that 
there was a fault until the calls were not made. 
 Arch did not assist with obtaining this information and excessive delays made it 
impossible for G to obtain this evidence. If it had secured evidence that the alarm 
was faulty, Arch could have taken action against the alarm company. 
The alarm had been serviced not long before the theft so G had done everything it 
could to ensure it was operational. It asked if Arch or our service could advise what it 
could have done differently. 
The alarm was triggered three times and when C attended on the second occasion 
the door was still attached. This indicates that the alarm was not working correctly as 
it had been falsely triggered before the theft. Arch should have investigated this. 
Before I reached a decision, our Investigator got in touch with both parties to say that he 
thought Section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act) applied. He said that he did not think 
that G had shown that non-compliance with the condition could not have made the loss more 
likely in the circumstances that it occurred. 
G thought there had been a misunderstanding about the break-in and that non-compliance 
with the condition could not have made the loss more likely. It said:
The thieves did not attempt to remove any bricks from the inside, only the outside. 
This would not have triggered the alarm and reinforces Gs belief that the thieves 
were not on the premises for long.
The items stolen were from a small area of the premises showing that the thieves 
were not in the building for long. 
Alarm sensors were on all doors. The other sensors were internal and would only 
have triggered if someone walked in front of the sensors within the premises. 
The lack of keyholder response to the first and third alarm activations are not 
relevant. It is impossible to know what activated the first alarm but G believes it could have been a storm. 
It is a leap to assume the thieves tested the alarm but if that was the case then the 
presence of the keyholder after the second activation would have shown the thieves 
that they only had a small window of opportunity to carry out a theft, thereby limiting 
the loss incurred. This shows the failure to attend the third activation had no material 
bearing on the loss. 
In addition to the alarm there are a number of other security measures such as 
CCTV, gates, fencing and flood lighting. All of these did not deter the thieves. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
G has made a number of detailed points. While I would like to reassure G that I have 
considered all of its points, in this decision, I am going to focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues. 
I have noted Gs comments that it believes our Investigator made excuses for Arch. I would 
like to clarify that my role is to impartially reach a decision based on what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances. Where I think Arch has not acted fairly or 
reasonably, then I consider the impact of this on G, as the eligible complainant. 
The claim
The Conditions section of Gs policy says a Keyholder is:
You or any person or key holding company authorised by You who must be 
available at all times to accept notification of faults or alarm signals relating to the 
intruder Alarm System attend and allow access to the Premises.
Arch has relied on the following sections to decline Gs claim:
If in relation to any claim for Damage by this condition if You have failed to fulfil 
any of the following conditions You will lose Your right to indemnity or payment 
for that claim

3. in the event of notification of any activation of the intruder Alarm System or 
interruption of any of the means of communication used to transmit signals during 
any period that the intruder Alarm System is set a Keyholder shall attend the 
Premises as soon as reasonably possible in order to confirm the security of the 
Premises and reset the intruder Alarm System in its entirety if the intruder Alarm 
System cannot be reset in its entirety or all the means of communication used to 
transmit signals are not in full operation a Keyholder must remain at the Premises 
unless We agree otherwise in writing

7. The intruder Alarm System shall be maintained in full and efficient working 
order under a contract to provide both corrective and preventative maintenance 
with the installing company or other such company as agreed by Us
8. You will appoint at least two Keyholders and lodge written details (which must 
be kept up to date) with the alarm company contracted to maintain the intruder 
Alarm System and with the police if they so require
The first thing for me to consider is whether Arch has shown that G most likely breached this 
condition. If I think Arch has reasonably shown the condition was breached then I need to 
consider whether G has shown that the breach could not have increased the loss in the 
circumstances that it occurred. That is because Section 11 of the Act says that where 
compliance with a term would tend to reduce the risk of one or more of, (a) loss of a 
particular kind, (b) loss at a particular location, (c) loss at a particular time, an insurer cant 
rely on the non-compliance to decline the claim if the insured shows that the non-compliance 
with the term could not have increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred in the 
circumstances in which it occurred. 
I do not intend to comment on points 7 and 8 because I believe that Arch was entitled to 
decline Gs claim due to a breach of point 3. I will explain why. 
It is not in dispute that Cs phone received notifications for all three triggers. In its complaint 
to our service, G says that C received the first notification but was not available, attended the 
premises for the second notification and switched his phone off, meaning that he did not 
receive the third alert which left a message on his phone. 
I understand that C had a good look around the exterior of the premises when he did attend 
and waited to check that there were no signs of a break-in or any intruders. However, it 
remains that a keyholder did not attend the premises on each occasion the alarm was 
triggered and an alert received.
I appreciate that Mr D and the manager might not have received notifications; and that G 
wanted Arch to investigate whether the alarm company was fault, as well as whether it 
shows that calls were made. But it is not Archs fault if the alarm company made an error 
and, if the alarm company was at fault, I do not agree that this would allow Arch to hold the 
alarm company responsible for losses. This is because the alarm did trigger calls to C and C 
did not attend the premises or check that another keyholder had attended. I understand that 
C was not an employee of G. But again, that is not Archs fault. 
It was Gs responsibility to ensure that a keyholder attended the premises if the alarm was 
triggered and the keyholder who received the notifications did not do so. Therefore, I think 
that Arch has shown that G most likely breached this condition.
For completeness, I would add that I do not believe that the alarm triggering twice before the 
theft shows that the alarm was most likely faulty. Arch said that thieves often test alarms 
prior to a break-in to see if its working, or whether someone attends the premises. I have to 
reach a decision on what I think is more likely to have happened and I find Archs suggestion 
more likely than the alarm becoming faulty on the same night that Gs premises were broken 
in to, or that it was set off by a storm.   
I am persuaded by Arch that G most likely breached this condition. I think that compliance 
with a condition requiring the keyholder to attend the premises each time the alarm is 
triggered is one that would tend to reduce the risk because attending the premises could 
help to reduce the possibility of the theft. So I have gone on to consider whether G has 
shown non-compliance with the condition could not have increased the loss in the 
circumstances that it occurred. I have noted Gs point that the thieves were only on the premises for a short amount of time 
and that testing the alarm would have shown that they only had a short window of 
opportunity. However, I also think that the lack of attendance for the first alarm condition 
could have indicated that not every alarm would be attended and the attendance of the 
keyholder at the second alarm would have indicated that the keyholder did not go into the 
building and reset the alarm. While the theft still could have occurred even if all alarms had 
been attended, on balance, I am not persuaded that a keyholder failing to attend the 
premises could not have increased the loss in the circumstances in which it occurred. 
Therefore, I am not going to interfere with Archs decision to decline Gs claim.
Evidence
G said that Arch deliberately did not provide audio recordings of the loss adjusters calls with 
the witnesses. 
Arch has sent the audio recordings it has to us but I have not been able to listen to them. 
However, I do not think I need to. This is because both Arch and G have confirmed that the 
recordings are not complete. Arch said that it has made enquiries with the loss adjuster to 
obtain the full recordings but they are not available due to becoming corrupted. 
I am aware of Gs representatives strength of feeling that Arch is deliberately withholding 
information, but I have not seen anything other than its comments to persuade me of this. In 
any event, the witness statements were signed following some corrections. And I do not 
believe that those corrections impacted the outcome of the claim. This suggests to me that 
neither Arch, nor its loss adjuster would have had reason to deliberately withhold the 
recordings.
False statements
I have seen an email from Arch to Gs broker in which it says, Please see the attached 
statements, which your client and [C] have refused to sign. I dont think this wording was 
particularly helpful as the witnesses had not refused to sign the statements and said they 
had not received them. I think it is likely that they had not received them as the speed at 
which they were returned when received supports this. 
In this decision, I can only consider the impact on G, as the eligible complainant. And while I 
can understand Mr Ds frustration at being told the witnesses had refused to sign the 
statements, I cannot make an award to Mr D for any distress this caused. I do not believe 
that this comment had such an inconvenience on G that would require any award of 
compensation. Arch has apologised and Im satisfied that is sufficient. So I am not going to 
require Arch to do anything further in relation to this. 
Delays
Arch has accepted that there were two main periods of delay in dealing with Gs claim. So it 
remains for me to consider whether Arch was at fault for these delays, and if so what the 
impact of the delay was on G. 
Arch acknowledged Gs claim on 13 February 2020 and appointed a loss adjuster who 
attended Gs premises straight away. However, the loss adjuster did not carry out interviews 
with the witness statements until 30 March 2020. While there were a couple of weeks 
between 18-30 March 2020 where the interviews were being arranged the main delay was 
between 13 February and 18 March. I agree that the process of arranging the interviews 
took longer than it should have done but I am not persuaded that Arch needs to compensate 
G for any delay here. I say that because, I do not accept that any delay here impacted the claim. G said that if Arch had not caused delays it could have obtained evidence from the 
alarm company sooner. But, for the reasons I set out above, I do not think this would have 
made a difference to the outcome of Gs claim as it remains that a keyholder was alerted 
and did not attend on every occasion. 
Arch has provided screenshots to demonstrate that the witness statements were sent on    
30 March 2020, as well as phone call chasers on 15 and 30 April 2023. I note that G does 
not think that screenshots are sufficient to evidence that the emails were sent or calls made, 
however, I have to decide if I think it is likely they were made. I have not seen anything other 
than Gs comments to suggest that the screenshots have been doctored and I think they are 
sufficient to demonstrate that it is more likely that not the statements were sent and chased. 
I do think that Arch should have contacted Gs representative if it had not received a 
response from the witnesses and I think if it had done so it would have received the witness 
statements back sooner. But again, I have to consider the impact of this on G. I do not think 
that any delay in receiving the witness statements impacted the outcome of the claim for the 
reasons I have already given. Gs representative has provided a very detailed timeline and I 
can see that the representative spent time chasing Arch for information and about the 
outcome of the claim. I cannot make an award for the inconvenience to Gs representative, 
although I recognise that G was also chasing its representative. 
Taking everything into account, I am not persuaded that the overall delays are sufficient for 
me to fairly award compensation for inconvenience in this particular case. 
I understand that this is not the outcome G was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman