DRN-4498829
The complaint
Mr M complains Ageas Insurance Limited handled a claim against his motor insurance policy
unfairly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In late November 2021 Mr Ms car was damaged in an incident while he was on 
holiday in the UK. He claimed on his motor insurance policy. Ageas accepted the 
claim. Initially, Ageas attempted to get the rear window replaced as a temporary fix. 
This didnt happen. Im satisfied from reviewing Ageass contemporaneous notes it 
did make reasonable attempts to arrange the temporary repair, but for reasons 
outside of its control (supply/supplier issues) it was unsuccessful.
Following this there was consideration of transport home for Mr M. This is provided 
under the Emergency transport and accommodation section of the policy. Ageas 
said this part of the policy didnt apply because Mr M wasnt in an emergency, such 
as at the side of the road. Instead, he wanted to be transported home at the end of 
his holiday. Mr M says thats not what the policy says.
I have reviewed the policy wording and while I can understand Mr Ms point of view, I 
find it clear the cover is intended to ensure a driver is transported to a safe place, or 
to their intended destination, when they are unable to drive their car. Mr Ms 
circumstances meant he was already safe, and at his intended destination for that 
day. It follows Im satisfied it was fair for Ageas to decline to pay to transport him 
home on a later date.
The car was later recovered to a garage, and later moved to another garage at Mr 
Ms request because the first garage couldnt provide a courtesy car, despite saying it 
could. The recovery took longer than it should have and while I accept this was in 
part because of reasons outside of Ageas control (the impact of Covid, the result of 
multiple storms, a lack of available courtesy cars) I find there was avoidable 
confusion on the part of Ageas and/or its agents which delayed matters, leading to 
delays in Mr M receiving a courtesy car, and causing him a great deal of frustration.
Repairs to the car started around mid-December 2021. The car was returned to Mr M 
in early January 2022. The car was in a very poor state. Ageas let Mr M down here 
given it had a responsibility to perform a lasting and effective repair. The car was 
returned to the garage for further repairs in mid-February 2022 and returned to Mr M 
in late May 2022. Thats a long time and I have seen no compelling explanation for 
why it took so long.
Mr M was still dissatisfied with the quality of the repairs. An inspection was 
undertaken which concluded Mr Ms dissatisfaction was justified. Despite him asking 
for a different garage to complete further repairs, it was returned to the same garage 
in mid-August 2022 and returned to Mr M in mid-September 2022. Mr M remained 
dissatisfied with the quality of the repairs and had particular concerns about the 
suspension.
Ageas didnt engage with Mr M in a meaningful way following this until our service 
became involved. In April 2023, it said it would arrange a further independent 
inspection. While Mr M declined this, I find that is an appropriate way forward. I say 
this because Mr Ms recent photos of the differing gaps between wheel and wheel 
arches suggest there is likely an issue with the suspension. And Mr M has other 
concerns for which he is willing to arrange the repair of, upon reimbursement. An 
inspection will enable a scope of required works to be completed.
I therefore intend to require Ageas to arrange an independent inspection, with a 
particular focus on the suspension. And if that inspection concludes further repair 
work is needed because of the damage caused by the incident, or the failed repair 
attempts, Ageas should arrange and pay for that work to be completed at a garage of 
Mr Ms choosing.
Mr M has confirmed he had access to either a hire car or a courtesy car for the time 
he was without his car. These have either been provided by Ageas/the garage or 
reimbursed by the third-party insurer. Im therefore satisfied Mr M hasnt been left out 
of pocket. While the cars Mr M used might not have been like his own, thats not a 
financial loss. But I will bear it in mind when considering fair compensation for 
non-financial loss.
The only other alleged financial loss appears to be Mr Ms suggestion Ageas actions 
 or lack thereof  has led to his car being worth less. Im not persuaded by this 
argument. The car wasnt a write off and if repairs are completed to a satisfactory 
standard  which is what Ageas will have to ensure is the case here  the value of 
his car shouldnt be impacted. In any case, if the car is worth less as Mr M suggests, 
Im not persuaded such as loss could be properly evidenced and quantified.
Ageas hasnt handled this claim well. Between the delays, failed repairs, and poor
communication (which Im aware of but havent specifically addressed given its 
volume) its caused Mr M a great deal of distress and inconvenience, and the matter 
is still ongoing. Compensation is appropriate. Our Investigator recommended Ageas 
pay Mr M £750. I consider that amount to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I understand this amount has already been paid to Mr M, so no 
further payment is due.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
arrange an independent inspection, with a particular focus on the suspension. 
And if that inspection concludes further repair work is needed because of the 
damage caused by the incident, or the failed repair attempts, Ageas should 
arrange and pay for that work to be completed at a garage of Mr Ms 
choosing.
Ageas accepted my provisional decision and has arranged for the independent inspection to 
take place. Mr M did not disagree with my provisional decision but did point out a couple of 
things he considered inaccurate. He also queried what an independent inspect entails and, later, asked to ensure it includes a list of specific concerns and a review of the quality of 
previous repairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has referred to two things in my provisional decision as inaccurate  Ageas agreed to 
extend emergency transport to 24 hours, and he didnt decline the independent inspection. 
The extension offer was not helpful to Mr M, and Ageas could likely have explained the 
situation more clearly. But this isnt material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The engineer intending to inspect the car reported to Ageas that Mr M had declined it. Mr 
Ms email to our service about the intended inspection didnt say he had declined it, but I can 
understand from his description of the conversation why the engineer may have concluded 
Mr M didnt want it. In any event, the inspection didnt go ahead.
In my provisional decision, I said Ageas should arrange for an independent inspection. This 
inspection should be undertaken by a suitably qualified engineer who is independent of Mr M 
and Ageas. Ageas has now arranged for this to happen, and I have no reason to doubt the 
capability, or the independence, of the engineering firm instructed by Ageas.
Mr M is keen for the inspection to consider the suspension, but also wants to ensure it 
includes a list of specific concerns, and a review of the quality of previous repairs. The 
independent inspection should include a full review of the entire car. For the avoidance of 
doubt, I will include Mr Ms list below, which will need to be included in the inspection. 
The side skirts are not fitted properly
There is a water leak into the boot
The drivers seat has light scratching and body filler on it (scratches have now 
polished out)
Wrong clips on boot trim
Dirty finger marks on the white trim
Wiring to tow bar switch disconnected (I have fixed this myself)
Rear speakers appear to have been disconnected 
Surround on rear seat release button loose 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to follow through with the 
independent inspection, which should include a full review of the car including the 
suspension, the concerns set out in Mr Ms list, and the quality of previous repairs. If the 
inspection concludes further repair work is needed because of the damage caused by the 
incident, or the failed repair attempts, Ageas should arrange and pay for that work to be 
completed at a garage of Mr Ms choosing.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman