DRN-3092450
The complaint
O complains that Funding Circle set up a short-term payment holiday incorrectly, which 
affected its credit rating and ability to get funding elsewhere, before then defaulting its loans 
without notice. 
What happened
Funding Circle agreed a three-month payment holiday with O in April 2019 on one of its 
loans, which was due to cover May, June and July 2019. However, despite this agreement,
monthly repayments were still taken in May and June 2019.
O asked Funding Circle to refund the payments due to cash flow issues, which were the
original reason for O requesting the three-month payment holiday. Funding Circle said that it 
couldnt refund them, and O would need to contact the bank that acted for the investors to
seek a chargeback. Instead, Funding Circle gave O a payment holiday for the following two 
months.
As a result of Funding Circles mistake in continuing to take the payments in May and June, 
O struggled with cash flow and couldnt pay all its creditors. 
In August 2019, O complained to Funding Circle. It asked for all debt repayments be put on 
hold pending the result of its complaint, to which Funding Circle agreed.
In October 2019, Funding Circle replied to Os complaint, apologising for the mistake in May 
and June but saying that it had acted swiftly to extend the repayment holiday. It said that as 
it had now responded to Os complaint, their usual recovery process would commence. 
At the end of October 2019, Funding Circle defaulted all Os loans.
O referred its complaint to this service, and it was passed to an investigator. Os complaint
covered the following:
Funding Circle didnt make O aware of the consequences to its credit rating of a 
short-term payment plan (STPP)
Funding Circle incorrectly set up the STPP, impacting Os ability to pay other 
creditors, and adversely affecting Os credit rating, limiting its ability to obtain further 
lending 
Funding Circle gave O no time to respond to the threat of default and unfairly 
defaulted all Os lending 
Our investigator didnt think Funding Circle was responsible for the impact on Os credit 
rating and nor did he think that Funding Circle had done anything wrong in defaulting the 
loans. 
He did however agree that Funding Circle had caused inconvenience to O by taking the 
payments in May and June and he thought Funding Circle were wrong to tell O to contact 
the bank that acted for the investors to seek a chargeback. He asked Funding Circle to pay 
O £250 for this inconvenience.
O was unhappy with the outcome and asked for an Ombudsman to look at its complaint, so
it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to a similar conclusion to our investigator and Ive explained my 
reasons below.
I need to consider if Funding Circle explained clearly the effect of a STPP on Os credit 
rating. Given there is no dispute that Funding Circle incorrectly set up the STPP, I then need 
to evaluate the impact this error had on O. And lastly, I need to consider whether Funding 
Circle acted fairly when defaulting Os loans. I will discuss each issue in turn.
Funding Circle didnt make O aware of the consequences of a STPP on its credit rating
Having reviewed the correspondence on file, I can see that in an email sent to O in early 
April 2019, Funding Circle explained that it could offer O a short-term payment holiday. 
Funding Circle stated clearly that the deferred payments would count as late payments 
which would negatively impact Os credit rating and may affect future lending that O might 
request from them or other lenders. 
Four days later, O requested that the payment holiday be implemented. I have seen a copy 
of the STPP document which was completed and signed by O. This document specifies that 
Funding Circle will report the arrears to the credit reference bureau which will affect Os 
credit rating.
From this evidence, I believe Funding Circle took reasonable steps to make O aware of the 
consequences of agreeing to a STPP on its credit rating. So, I wont be upholding this 
element of the complaint.
The impact of Funding Circle taking the payments on Os ability to pay other creditors 
Cash flow issues were the original reason for O requesting a payment holiday so when 
Funding Circle incorrectly took the payments in May and June, Os other creditors couldnt 
be paid. 
Funding Circle said this was an administrative error for which they apologised. However, 
when O asked Funding Circle to return the payments they had taken, Funding Circle said 
they couldnt do this and told O to contact the bank that acted for the investors to seek a 
chargeback.
I dont think Funding Circle acted fairly here. O had clearly explained to them why it required 
the STPP, so Funding Circle were aware of the potential impact of their mistake on Os 
cashflows. Moreover, Funding Circle have told us that they did have the ability to make a 
payment to O to restore the funds taken in error in the case of financial loss, which I believe 
would have been the appropriate action in this situation. Funding Circle agreed to change the dates of the STPP, so O still had the benefit of the 
payment holiday at a later date, but I believe Funding Circles error impacted Os ability to 
pay their creditors, causing inconvenience to O at a time when they already had cash flow 
issues. Therefore, I uphold this element of the complaint.
O has not provided specific evidence of the effect on its business of the inconvenience 
caused in paying its creditors, e.g. in increased costs from suppliers. For this reason, I 
believe Funding Circle should pay O £250 to put things right.
The impact of Funding Circle taking the payments on Os credit rating and its ability to 
access new loans
I have reviewed the credit ratings provided from both CreditSafe UK and Experian. 
I have seen no change in CreditSafe UKs rating, which was documented as Moderate risk 
both before and after the payment holiday.
Os Experian score did deteriorate from Good in April 2019 to Fair in October 2019. A 
missed payment to a creditor will usually be reported to the credit reference agencies within 
30 days so I would expect to see the impact of any missed payments to creditors in May and 
June on Os credit rating by late July. 
As the credit rating didnt deteriorate until October 2019, it appears that the impact on the 
credit rating was mainly caused by O entering into a three-month STPP. And as Ive noted 
above, this impact was explained to O by Funding Circle before it entered into the STPP. 
Therefore, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Consequently, I also cant hold Funding Circle responsible for Os lending applications being 
declined. Moreover, in the only evidence O has provided to show a declined loan application, 
the broker has explained that the loan was declined because O was loss making and 
insolvent, had a history of late payments and bounced payments and there was evidence of 
recent borrowing. So, I dont think it would be fair to blame Funding Circle for this application 
being declined.
In relation to further loans from Funding Circle, they explained that, due to the STPP, no new 
lending could be approved at that time. But they said they would consider further lending if 
the arrears on the loan were cleared and there was evidence of six consecutive months of 
repayments. This was Funding Circles commercial decision to make.
Funding Circle gave O no time to respond to the threat of default and defaulted all Os loans
Funding Circle contacted O in June 2019 to confirm they expected the loan to be serviced as 
usual from August and that they would require three months of double payments to ensure 
all arrears were cleared to prevent the loan being defaulted. 
However, in August, O raised its complaint with Funding Circle and asked that the complaint 
process be completed prior to the loan being defaulted. 
Funding Circle accepted this request and no further loan repayments were made by O prior 
to the final response from Funding Circle in mid-October. 
In early October, during a call with Funding Circle, O explained the difficulties its business 
was experiencing. It said that it had engaged the services of an insolvency practitioner and 
made several references to the business closing or being finished. In their final response letter in mid-October, Funding Circle told O that they would now 
resume their normal recovery process, which would result in Os loans being listed for a 
default by the end of the week, as it was evident that they were struggling financially, and the 
payments were more than 91 days late. 
Funding Circle emailed O at the end of October to confirm the loans had been listed for 
default and default proceedings would commence the following day.
The loan was then defaulted, together with the other two loans O held with Funding Circle at 
that time.
Ive reviewed the loan agreements and the terms of the STPP. I can see that what 
constitutes an event of default is explained in all documents - with a missed payment being a 
key reason. Furthermore, the documents make clear that all loans would be defaulted if one 
of them fell into arrears. By the time Funding Circle defaulted the loans, Os main loan was 
four months in arrears. 
Moreover, the terms of the original loan state that if the Borrower ceases to pay its debts 
or is unable to pay its debts as they fall due or is deemed unable or admits its inability to do 
so   it would constitute an event of default. Having listened to the call between O and 
Funding Circle at the start of October, I agree that this criterion was met in the course of that 
conversation.
So, when I take into account the missed payments and Os financial position as reported to 
Funding Circle during the call in early October, I cant say that it was unfair or unreasonable 
for Funding Circle to default the loans.
The loans O had with Funding Circle were unregulated agreements and it is explained in the 
terms and conditions of the loan that this means the borrower will not have the benefit of the 
protection and remedies that would be available to it under the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 or under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 if this agreement were a regulated 
agreement under those Acts.
As a result, there was no obligation on Funding Circle to provide any notice of default to O. 
O has argued that it was told by Funding Circle in early October that it was not to make any 
payments against the loan, and this is why no payments were made. However, I have 
listened to this call carefully and I dont agree that this is what was decided. Funding Circles 
representative notes the loan was on hold while the complaint was being investigated; but on 
the basis of what she was told by O, she believed the company was going into 
administration imminently, so she arranged for someone from the business advisory support 
team to contact O to discuss the next steps. 
By the end of October, O hadnt been able to demonstrate sufficiently to Funding Circle that 
its business was likely to make the necessary repayments, and, by this time, the missed 
payments were more than 91 days late. Given this, and that O had indicated its business 
was failing and it was in discussions with an insolvency practitioner, I cant see that Funding 
Circle acted unreasonably in defaulting the loans in line with the terms of its agreement. For 
these reasons, I dont uphold this part of the complaint
ConclusionAs explained above, I believe that Funding Circles administrative error impacted Os ability 
to pay their creditors in the affected months. As a result, Funding Circle should make a 
payment of £250 for the inconvenience this caused to O.
However, I dont think Funding Circle are responsible for any detriment to Os credit rating or 
declined lending applications, and nor do I think they did anything wrong in defaulting the 
loans. I therefore wont be asking them to take any further action in this respect.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part for the reasons Ive explained above, 
and I require Funding Circle Ltd to pay £250 to O for the inconvenience their error caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman