DRN-2836033
The complaint
Ms C is represented. She says Craig Mitchell (CM) is responsible for her unsuitable 
investment of £15,000, in April 2017, in UK Property Development Solutions (UKPDS) PLC 
bonds (the bonds). CM disputes the complaint. Its principal says he never met Ms C, that 
he was never introduced to her, that he never communicated with her in any way and that 
CM did not advise her investment in the bonds. 
What happened
Ms C and her representative have shared some documentation, about the application for the 
bonds, to support the complaint.
A copy of Ms Cs application for the bonds includes her application details and her signature 
(expressly dated 21 April 2017). In the section for her advisers details CMs principals name 
is given. CMs details (including its FCA number) as the Authorised Adviser and its 
principals signature (also dated 21 April 2017) also feature. CMs principal says he 
completed this section under the misunderstanding that he was verifying Ms Cs identity, and 
not to affirm that he had advised her.
Copies of some correspondence from UKPDS have also been shared with us. The certificate 
for the bonds confirms an issue date of 28 April 2017. Then there is a letter from UKPDS to 
Ms C sent in December 2017, in which she was given notice about a problem with her bond 
investment  and update about the problem was sent to her in 2018.
Ms Cs evidence  as presented between her and her representative  about her 
circumstances at the time of the investment, and about the circumstances leading to the 
investment, is mainly as follows:
She was in her late 60s and retired; her incomings were no more than £10,000 per 
year; and she had no previous unsecured investment experience; the invested 
capital came from her savings; and she sought an investment that would provide a 
return better than a bank deposit and that would provide additional financial support 
in retirement.
She was introduced to UKPDS and the bonds by a third-party individual; that 
individual gave her information about UKPDS and the bonds and she understood it 
as an investment from which she could achieve guaranteed returns and guaranteed 
safety of her investment capital; she also relied on CMs confirmation of suitability (in 
the advisers undertaking it gave in her application form) as assurance that the 
investment was good for her and that she could proceed with it. 
Ms Cs representative has also raised the argument that if CM did not assess suitability of 
the bonds for her, as it asserts, then its advisers undertaking was a falsehood that breached 
its regulatory obligations and misled Ms C.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
He referred to regulatory guidance in the FCAs Handbook (in the Perimeter Guidance 
Manual (PERG)) on what constitutes advice. He considered that the contents of CMs 
advisers undertaking in Ms Cs application for the bonds strongly suggests that CM was the 
adviser for the investment and that its assessment of the bonds suitability influenced her 
decision to invest in them.
In terms of suitability, the investigator considered the bonds unsuitable for Ms C because he 
considered that they were particularly high-risk investments, as they were mini bonds issued 
by companies too small or too new to raise capital through more traditional methods, being 
companies that also had a higher risk of cash flow problems and/or failure. The investigator 
considered that the bonds required a sophisticated investor and an investor prepared to take 
high risks, neither of which was Ms C.
CMs principal disagreed with this outcome. He repeated his original position on the 
complaint. He added that the absence of advice related documentation shows a lack of merit 
in the complaint, and that CM was not authorised to give investment advice at the time of   
Ms Cs investment so it would not have advised her on the investment.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Responsibility for Ms Cs investment
I endorse, and incorporate into this decision, the investigators findings on the guidance 
given in PERG 8.28 (about what constitutes advice from a firm) and on its relevance to the 
complaint. 
There was no direct engagement between Ms C and CM, so I have applied the guidance to 
what Ms C has described in terms of an intermediary (along with CM) facilitating her 
investment  which, on balance, I consider to be a reliable description. I have previously 
made decisions in other complaints about CM, with claims similar or identical to those by   
Ms C and with rebuttals from CM identical to those it has raised against Ms Cs complaint. A 
third-party intermediary/introducer featured in most of those cases. I consider it plausible that 
an introducer featured in Ms Cs case as she has described.
A key message in the guidance within PERG 8.28 is the need to establish that a value 
judgement, about the merits of an investment, was conveyed by the adviser to an investor, 
which influenced the latters investment decision.
CMs signed advisers undertaking said  
I/we can confirm that I/we have complied with the suitability rules in COBS 9 of the Financial
Conduct Authority's Handbook of Rules and Guidance and have assessed this investment
as suitable for the above named client.
It is reasonable to conclude that the above undertaking from CM presented, to Ms C, its 
value judgment that the investment in the bonds was suitable for her. It says as much, and it 
does so with express and specific reference to the regulators rule which defines suitability 
(that is, COBS 9). The above undertaking also makes it implausible that CM misunderstood 
its purpose. CMs principal says he never met or engaged with Ms C, so, primarily, it begs 
the question why he would verify her identity  the identity of someone he says he never 
knew or met  as he says he believed he was doing. Furthermore, nothing in the above 
undertaking relates to verifying Ms Cs identity.On balance, I accept Ms Cs evidence that the undertaking influenced her decision to 
proceed with the investment. 
Available documentation in Ms Cs case is limited. However, as I said above, I have 
addressed other comparable complaints and more documentation and information about 
UKPDS and the bonds was/is available to me in one of those. Based on that, I am aware 
that confirmation of independent financial advice was a pre-requisite to investing in the 
bonds, hence the need for the authorised adviser undertaking within the application 
document. CM gave that undertaking and that made Ms Cs investment possible. In this 
context, it is understandable and plausible that she was induced and/or assured by the 
undertaking to proceed with the investment.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I am satisfied that CM undertook 
responsibility for advising Ms Cs investment in the bonds and for conveying the message to 
her that they were suitable for her. If, as its principal argues, CM did not give such advice 
directly to her, its undertaking confirms that it assessed suitability of the bonds for her, so it 
probably based that on information about the bonds and on information it had about her 
through the introducer. If CM says it conducted no such assessment and that it had no 
information about Ms C, then I agree with her representatives argument that CMs 
undertaking would have been false, that such false undertaking was relied upon by Ms C, 
and that CM would therefore hold responsibility for misleading Ms Cs investment in the 
bond.
CMs references to absent advice documentation and to lacking authority to advise on 
investments in 2017 does not alter the above conclusions. There is documentation, in the 
form of its advisers undertaking, that it assessed suitability of the bonds for Ms C and 
considered them suitable for her. If that was done at a time when CM did not have the 
regulators authority to give investment advice, then that is a matter between it and the 
regulator. The lack of such authority does not negate evidence that, as a matter of fact, CM 
stood as adviser for Ms Cs investment and assessed the investment suitable for her.
Suitability of Ms Cs investment
In broad terms, and based on information from one of the comparable cases I have referred 
to, the bonds had a maturity term of 12 months (extendable to 18 months) and they were 
used by UKPDS to raise capital which it then issued as loans to third-party firms for the 
business of property acquisition, development and sale. It appears that the proceeds of the 
property sales were to be used to service the loans, which then provided funds to be used in 
paying the coupons on the bonds (and to redeem the bonds). 
This meant there was more than one layer of risk involved. The bond issuer (UKPDS) was 
not the end user of the capital raised and it does not appear to have had any control over the 
third-party end users; so due diligence on UKPDS and on the end users would have been 
important. There is no evidence of such due diligence being conducted by CM for Ms Cs 
investment. The UKPDS letter she received in December 2017 was about a problem related 
to the due diligence conducted on an end user that led to unforeseen problems in the end 
users ability to repay the loan, and UKPDS position was that it had been misled by 
information in the course of its due diligence process. I consider this evidence that illustrates 
how prospectively difficult it would have been, at the time of Ms Cs investment, to manage 
the layers of risk to which investment in the bond was exposed.
Furthermore, it is commonly considered that property-based investments can have 
associated high risks in terms of determining a reliable value of the underlying assets and in 
terms of liquidity of the underlying assets. Such risks were potentially heightened in the context of the relatively short 12 to 18 months term for the bonds and in the context of their 
brochures confirmation that the end users operations were based on using an  advanced 
computer search algorithm  to identify suitable development sites  which suggests 
investment decisions not based on due care, skill and analysis by experienced managers.
I have not seen evidence that Ms C was a high-risk investor with investment experience that 
made it possible for her to understand the risks involved in the bonds. She made the 
investment with the expectation that it was comparable to, but a little better than, a bank 
deposit, that it guaranteed her returns and that it guaranteed safety of her capital. This does 
not describe an investor seeking a high-risk and sophisticated investment.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not consider that the bonds were 
suitable for Ms C; and I also find that CM had no basis to give the undertaking  which it 
gave  that they were.
Putting things right
fair compensation
Fair compensation will be to put Ms C as close as I can to the position she would probably 
now be in if she had not made the unsuitable investment in the UKPDS bonds. I take the 
view that she would have behaved differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she 
would have done differently but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair given 
available information of her profile at the time.
what must CM do?
To compensate Ms C fairly, CM must:
Compare the performance of her bond investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay her compensation in the amount of the difference between the fair 
value and the actual value of the investment. However, if the actual value is greater 
than the fair value, no compensation for financial loss is payable. 
Pay her interest, if set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest 
awarded.
Provide her with details of the calculation of compensation in a clear and simple 
format.
Investment status Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Ms C s 
UKPDS 
PLC bondsStill existsthe Bank of England 
average return from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlement Not applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid the actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is 
provided Ms C agrees to CM taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If that is not 
possible then CM may request an undertaking from Ms C that she repay to CM any amount 
she may receive from the investment in future. fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, CM should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if CM totals all of those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms C sought an investment that provided guaranteed returns and, importantly, 
safeguarded her capital.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. 
I consider that the above benchmark matches the investment profile Ms C had in 
2017, and that its use in calculating compensation for her would reasonably put her 
into a position that broadly reflects the sort of return she could have obtained from a 
suitable investment. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Cs complaint and I order Craig Mitchell to pay her 
compensation as set out above. Craig Mitchell must also provide her with a calculation of the 
compensation in a clear and simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman