DRN-2730818
The complaint
Mr K complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Littlewoods (SDFC) 
lent to him irresponsibly.
.
What happened
Mr K opened a catalogue shopping account with SDFC in September 2016. His credit limit 
was increased from £500 to £1000 in April 2017. His account defaulted in January 2018 and 
the debt was sold to a third party the following month. 
Mr K complained to SDFC saying it didnt adequately consider if the credit was affordable for 
him and it recorded an incorrect and unlawful default on his credit file. He asked for all 
interest and charges to be refunded, with interest, and for any negative information on his 
credit file to be deleted. At the same time he made a complaint about the payment protection 
insurance sold on his account and he says this is the only issue SDFC addressed. So he 
brought his irresponsible lending complaint to this service. 
At around the same time SDFC responded in full to Mr Ks irresponsible lending complaint 
accepting it shouldnt have increased Mr Ks credit limit. It refunded, with interest, fees and 
charges that it had applied to his account from April 2017 until it sold the debt. It said the 
negative information on Mr Ks file had been reported by the third-party debt collector.
Our adjudicator said SDFCs response to Mr K was fair and reasonable. He went on to 
consider SDFCs checks when it opened the account, and how it had managed the account 
when it fell into arrears. He found no failings on the lenders part. He explained if Mr K 
wanted the actions of the third-party debt collector to be looked into he would need to first 
complain to them, but hed seen no evidence adverse information had been incorrectly 
recorded on Mr Ks file.
Mr K disagreed with these findings. He said he wasnt notified about the debt sale and 
SDFCs irresponsible lending increased his debt with multiple fees and charges and 
damaged his credit file unfairly. Our adjudicator confirmed SDFC issued a default notice on 8 
January 2018 and the terms of his agreement allowed it to sell the debt. The debt mainly 
resulted from Mr Ks catalogue shopping, only a small amount (less than 10%) was from 
charges and SDFC had refunded these. So he could not agree SDFC had done anything 
wrong, that it hadnt already put right. 
Mr K still felt we had not addressed his point about SDFC offering him credit given his low 
income so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when SDFC lent to Mr K required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So SDFC had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr K. In other words, it wasnt enough for SDFC to simply think about the likelihood
of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the account repayments on Mr K. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each credit application 
or limit increase. In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be 
dependent upon a number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular 
circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit 
they have applied for, or are being given.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application or limit increase  including (but not limited to) any 
indications of borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
As catalogue shopping accounts are open-ended we also consider the length of time it 
would have taken to repay the credit provided, had a consumer used the full limit that was 
offered from the outset. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether SDFC did 
what it needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr K. This means in reaching my conclusion I 
have considered the following questions:
did SDFC complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ks
account application and limit increase to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay 
the debt in a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did SDFC make fair lending decisions?
did SDFC act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
As SDFC has already agreed that it was wrong to increase Mr Ks credit limit and it has put 
things right in line with the approach we would have instructed, I wont comment further on 
the April 2017 limit increase.
When Mr K opened his account in 2016 SDFC asked for information on his income 
(£23,000), his residential status (living with parents), his employment status (full time) and it 
checked his financial position using the data shown on his credit file. I have seen a summary 
of the results of the credit checks that SDFC received. I cant see there was a level of 
adverse information such that SDFC should have been concerned at this stage. The information Mr K might see on his credit file might differ to that seen by the lender. A lender 
might only see a portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or 
the data might not be up to date. This may explain any differences between the information 
seen by SDFCs credit check and the information Mr K might have seen on his credit file at 
the time.
But I do think it would have been proportionate for SDFCs checks to go further than they 
did. I say this because its difficult to establish whether repayments are affordable without an 
understanding of both a consumers income and regular expenditure. The regulations at the 
time (CONC 5.3.1(9)) required SDFC to consider the information it had on Mr Ks disposable 
income when setting his credit limit and I cant see that SDFC asked about Mr Ks 
expenditure. So it didnt have an understanding of his disposable income before it made its 
lending decision. I have therefore considered what better checks might have shown SDFC. 
Mr K provided a copy of his full credit report but from that, and what it evidences of Mr Ks 
financial circumstances at the time of his application, I cant fairly conclude that better 
checks would have led SDFC to make a different lending decision. It shows Mr K had no 
other credit cards or personal loans and whilst there was one account that had defaulted, 
that was in 2014 and I wouldnt have expected SDFC not to lend on that basis alone.  
Overall, I dont think SDFC was wrong to initially approve Mr Ks account application and 
provide him with an opening credit limit of £500.
Did SDFC act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr K in some other way?
Here I have reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator and for the same reasons. Mr K 
complains the default was incorrect and unlawful. I havent found any evidence this is the 
case. SDFC has told us it issued a default notice on 8 January 2018. I understand Mr K says 
he didnt receive this, but I cant fairly hold the business responsible for its non-receipt. It has 
Mr Ks correct contact details. And it was entitled to sell on the debt in the way it did.
SDFC has confirmed it did not record any adverse information on Mr Ks credit file in relation 
to this debt. This was done by the third party. They would be obliged to accurately reflect the 
status of the debt in their reporting. If Mr K feels this has been done incorrectly, or has other 
concerns about how the debt has been managed, he must first complain to the third party so 
they can investigate - they are not party to this complaint. He can of course bring a new 
complaint against them to this service if he is unhappy with the response.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman