DRN-3672447
The complaint
Ms B complains that Plutusgroup Ltd, now trading as Gate Capital Group Ltd (Gate), gave
her unsuitable advice to switch her existing personal pension to a Self-Invested Personal
Pension (SIPP) and invest his funds through Organic, a Discretionary Fund Manager
(DFM). For ease of reading Ill refer to Gate throughout my decision.
What happened
Ms B says she was cold-called and offered a review of her pension. I can see that Ms Bs
existing pension provider (Royal London) provided details of her pension to a different
financial adviser in May 2016. They were responding to a request from this firm with written
authority from Ms B.
A SIPP application was completed on 21 August 2016 with Gate recorded as the financial
adviser. The Organic application was completed the same day.
A fact find and risk assessment were completed a month later in September 2016. Ms B was
assessed with a low to medium attitude to risk and a small capacity for loss.
On 11 November 2016 Gate issued an advice report, in which they recommended Ms B to
transfer her existing personal pension worth around £27,000 to a SIPP and invest through
Organic in their conservative (also referred to as moderate) model portfolio. The funds
reached Ms Bs SIPP the same day.
In 2018, Gate had done a due diligence review and had concerns about Organic and their
investment strategy. They contacted Ms B in April 2018 to review her pension as part of their
ongoing advice. In July 2018 they wrote to Ms B by registered post and marked as urgent.
They said they had partially completed their advice process but they needed to finish it and
hadnt heard from Ms B. They urged her to get in touch to discuss alternative investment
strategies due to their concerns about Organic. She was warned that if Gate didnt hear from
her by the end of July they would end the client relationship and not be liable for the
performance of her investments any longer.
Ms B got in touch and Gate arranged a review with Ms B in late July. They then sent her
their recommendation report to switch pensions on 31 July 2018. Gate provided call
recordings to show they called Ms B several times in August (the last time on 30 August)
and asked for urgent call backs to discuss the report. They said Ms B didnt return their calls
or got in touch otherwise.
On 30 October 2018, Gate sent her another letter explaining that due to her lack of
response, they would not provide her with an ongoing service anymore and would take no
further liability or accept any future claims on performance or liquidity in relation to Ms Bs
investments.
Around the same time some funds in Ms Bs portfolio were suspended by the fund manager
as valuation of its assets became difficult.
Ms B complained in 2020 through a representative about the advice she received. Gate
rejected the complaint and said the advice had been suitable. The SIPP allowed Ms B to
take flexible benefits. They also had done extensive due diligence on Organic before they
recommended them as a DFM and Organic had misled them. Organic did not act in
accordance with their terms, but that was not foreseeable at the time of the advice. And
when they became concerned about Organics actions they tried to change Ms Bs
investments. If she had followed Gates advice in 2018 some if not all losses could have
been avoided.
One of our investigators upheld Ms Bs complaint. She was concerned that a fact find was
completed and a recommendation issued after application forms for the SIPP and DFM had
already been signed. She said this suggested the outcome had been predetermined. She
also didnt think any concrete objectives were identified for Ms B. The investigator thought
Ms Bs existing pension was cheaper and invested in line with her attitude to risk. She did
not see that Ms B had a need to change her pension. She asked Gate to compensate Ms B
for any losses she incurred.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me for a decision. Ive 
previously issued a provisional decision explaining that I was intending to uphold the 
complaint. However, I was looking to award slightly different compensation taking into 
account that I didnt think it was fair to hold Gate responsible for all investment losses Ms B 
suffered. 
Ms Bs representatives said they had no further comments. Gate did not respond. As I 
wasnt provided with any further comments or information by either party, I see no reason to 
depart from my findings in my provisional decision which are set out again below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that I cant see any persuasive reason why it was in Ms Bs best
interest to change her pension.
I appreciate she was invested in a with-profits fund and bonuses in the previous four years
had been zero and before that had been relatively low. However, it was a low-cost plan,
provided a minimum assured sum and it was invested in line with Ms Bs attitude to risk.
One of the reasons for moving to a SIPP was that Ms Bs existing plan did not allow her to
take her benefits flexibly. However, she was 53 at the time and was looking to retire at 67 at
the earliest. In was recorded that she hadnt given much thought to retirement and might
work beyond state retirement age if her health permitted this. And she was still two years
away from being able to take any benefits at all. So there was no need to transfer her plan in
2016. And once she did have more concrete plans of what she wanted from her retirement,
she could have transferred at that point. Royal London did explain in their plan information
that they offered customers to transfer their funds into a more flexible arrangement, so Ms B
could have done that without or without advice if and when she had a concrete need to 
access the funds this way.
A stakeholder pension was considered for Ms B but discounted as it did not have sufficient
fund choice. However, Im not persuaded by the argument that Ms B liked the idea of a
broader range of investments or that the ability to make investment decisions was something
she needed. Ms B was an inexperienced investor with a relatively low attitude to risk, so I
dont think she needed this variety.Ms Bs plan value was relatively low and given her low attitude to risk and capacity for loss,
the possibility for growth would have been limited. So keeping the charges low would have
been a key consideration in my view.
Gate confirmed in the suitability report that the reduction in yield due to charges was 0.4% in
the Royal London plan compared to 1.1% in the SIPP (as per the SIPP pre-retirement
illustration issued in September 2016). So transferring the pension to a SIPP and using a
DFM made the arrangement nearly three times more expensive and this is before the
ongoing adviser charges of 0.5% were factored in.
So overall reduction in yield would have been at least 1.6%. I say at least because whilst the
overall DFM costs were set out to be 0.75% in the suitability report, in response to Gates
due diligence queries Organic did say that We will endeavour to keep TERs [total expense
ratios] as low as possible; realistically below 0.8%, which includes Organics management
charges but could be as high as 1.00%. So I think there was a realistic possibility Organics
charges could be as high as 1%, leading to a total yield reduction of up to 1.85%.
I dont see any good reason why Ms B had to go into such an expensive arrangement. I
appreciate that for the additional charges she would have benefitted from an ongoing adviser
service and an active fund management as well as being in a flexible plan. However, I dont
think she had the need for a DFM in addition to an ongoing adviser or the need for a large
range of funds. I think keeping the costs lower would have been more important in her
situation. I also havent seen any persuasive evidence that Ms B would likely outperform her
existing plan despite these high charges.
She was in a with-profits fund that matched her attitude to risk. I understand Gate was a
restricted adviser so couldnt advise her on the whole of the market. But I think their
recommended arrangement was unsuitable mainly due to its higher costs and unnecessary
layers and so this shouldnt have been recommended.
Like the investigator, I think with suitable advice Ms B would have likely stayed in her Royal
London plan.
Its not quite clear how Ms B ended up receiving advice from Gate in summer 2016. Gate
say she had spoken to another adviser first (which is supported by the fact Royal London
sent information to them in May 2016), but its clear that when the SIPP application was
completed in August, Gate was already involved -or expected to be involved- as they were
the firm recorded as the financial adviser. So I agree with the investigator its odd that
applications were completed before the fact find. And SIPP statements show that the
transfer payment was received the same day the recommendation report was issued. The
advice process here is not quite transparent and it seems Ms B transferred before having
received a written recommendation. So I dont know what Ms B was told about the switch
and when.
In any event, Gate confirmed they did the fact find in September and so they definitely were
involved at that point. Gate said Ms B essentially had already decided what to do when she
came to Gate.
However, even if this was the case, Gate wasnt there to simply transact what she wanted to
do but advise her properly. Based on what Ive seen about Ms Bs lack of investment
experience and her general circumstances I think its likely she would have listened to Gate
if they had recommended her not to switch and explained why.
The investigator held Gate responsible for all Ms Bs losses as in her view she should havenever switched to a SIPP and invested through Organic and so her losses could have been
prevented if she had been given suitable advice and stayed with Royal London.
However, in the particular circumstances of this complaint I dont think this is fair and
reasonable.
We know from other cases this service has dealt with that the Gate advisers due diligence
into Organic had been based on specific questions they put to them between May and
August 2016  rather than simply accepting Organics marketing material without question.
The adviser went on to check out the pedigree of those running the business, and its
external compliance consultants  recording its overall conclusions in a summary document
which it has provided to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
In August 2016 Organic provided assurances to Gate that the model portfolios wouldnt be
invested in non-standard assets and that they would not be managing any funds directly.
Based on what Ive seen I think the extent of Gates due diligence enquiries here was
reasonable and I dont consider they acted negligently in this respect. Im satisfied the due
diligence Gate had carried out in mid-2016 would have provided reasonable assurance that
the portfolio would be managed appropriately. And based on the assets Ms Bs portfolio was
meant to hold, the recommended portfolio seems a reasonable match for Ms Bs attitude to
risk.
The problem is Organic diverged from what they had told Gate and invested into higher risk
investments, manged their own funds and charged higher fees. Gate started having
concerns about Organic after doing a due diligence review and wrote to their customers
including Ms B in 2018. At this point, funds were still liquid and from what Ive seen the
majority of losses and liquidity issued happened from October 2018 onwards.
Based on the evidence provided, Im satisfied that Gate reached out to Ms B on multiple
occasions and tried to switch her away from Organic. And they did try and call her several
times after they had done their review in August 2018 to implement another switch away
from Organic. If Ms B had responded and followed Gates advice, she would have likely
been able to avoid further losses and would have not ended up in illiquid funds.
In my view Gate tried to act in their clients best interest when they noticed Organic was not
acting within their terms and going against what they had told Gate they would do during
their due diligence communications. They informed Ms B about their concerns and she didnt
respond despite being chased and being informed that it was important and urgent she
would get back in touch.
Gate warned her in July 2018 that if she didnt respond to them, they would end the adviser
relationship and told her they wouldnt take liability for the investments going forward. And
this is what they eventually did when she didnt respond in August after having received
Gates advice to switch to a different SIPP with different investments.
They ended the adviser relationship from 1 August 2018. As I said above I think the advice
Gate gave wasnt suitable essentially due to charges. But I dont think it would be fair and
reasonable to hold Gate responsible for any investment losses after 1 August 2018 which
will be mainly due to Organics mismanagement and Ms B didnt reasonably mitigate her
losses when she was given the chance. The redress below takes this into account.
Putting things right
To compensate Ms B fairly Gate should:Compare the value of Ms B's SIPP at 1 August 2018 with the notional value of Ms 
Bs Royal London plan on the same date. If the SIPP value is lower theres a loss 
and compensation is payable. If the SIPP value is higher, no compensation is
payable.
A notional value is the fairest comparator here, but if Royal London is unable to
calculate a notional value, Gate will need to determine a fair value for Ms B's
previous plan instead, using this benchmark:
For half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index;
for the other half: average rate from fixed rate bonds.
Ms B wanted growth with a small risk to her capital so I think this benchmark is fair.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital. The FTSE UK
Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA
Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with
different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure
for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Ms B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared
to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50
combination would reasonably put Ms B into that position. It does not mean that Ms B
would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that likely
reflects the sort of return Ms B could have obtained from investments in her existing
plan.
Any loss amount should be brought up to date from 1 August 2018 to the date of this
final decision by applying the same benchmark as mentioned above. Again this is to
reflect the kind of returns Ms B likely could have expected given her attitude to risk if
she had reasonably invested the loss amount.
Gate also recommended Ms B to make regular contributions of £60 per month into
her pension which with tax relief was £75 per month. Ms B was not making any
contributions into her Royal London plan at the time. I think suitable advice would
have included paying contributions into her existing plan and I see no reason why
she wouldnt have followed that advice.
So when requesting the notional value from Royal London (or using the benchmark),
monthly contributions of £60 plus tax relief should be factored in from 8 November
2016 (thats when she made her first contribution into the SIPP) until 1 August 2018.
Equally if Ms B did withdraw any monies from her SIPP, these amounts should be
deducted from the notional value calculation.
If there is a loss, Gate should pay compensation into Ms B's pension plan, to
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. Gates
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Gate
shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any
existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance
implications, it should be paid directly to Ms B as a lump sum after making a notional
deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically,25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been
taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the overall gross loss adequately
reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Ms B within 28 days of
the date Gate receives notification of Ms Bs acceptance of my final decision. Further
interest must be added at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final
decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 28 days, that it takes
Gate to pay Ms B.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Gate consider that they are
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, Gate
should tell Ms B how much theyve taken off. Gate should also give Ms B a tax
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Provide the details of the calculation to Ms B in a clear, simple format.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Gate Capital Group Ltd to pay Ms B any compensation as 
calculated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman