DRN-2847966
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) hasnt fully 
settled a claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T have travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account. They were 
due to travel abroad in May 2020 and travel to a few European cities, together with friends. 
In total, theyd booked and paid for seven hotels.
However, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office advised against all but 
essential travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As restrictions on travel remained in place, 
Mr and Mrs Ts trip had to be cancelled. They were able to get full refunds of some of their 
travel and accommodation costs associated with the cancellation. However, three hotels 
didnt offer Mr and Mrs T a full refund. Two of the hotels, which Ill call S and O, offered Mr 
and Mrs T a credit voucher for the full value of their booking. S voucher was valid for 12 
months from the date of issue and Os voucher was valid for an 18-month period. The third 
hotel, which Ill call S1 offered neither a refund nor a credit voucher. As Mr and Mrs T said 
they werent able to make use of either credit voucher and as they were out of pocket for the 
costs theyd paid for S1, they made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
AIG ultimately settled the full costs Mr and Mrs T had paid for themselves and the rest of 
their party for their booking with S1. But it turned down the claim for the costs associated 
with the bookings for S and O. It said that the policy only covered financial losses a 
policyholders suffered. As both S and O had offered Mr and Mrs T credit vouchers for the 
full value of their bookings; it said they hadnt suffered a financial loss. It told Mr and Mrs T 
that if they were unhappy with their accommodation providers offers; theyd need to take it 
up with them.
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with AIGs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. She thought that as 
S and O had each offered them a credit voucher, their loss for these bookings was 
recoverable. She also considered that as the credit vouchers for the bookings were valid for 
12 and 18 months respectively, their terms werent unfairly restrictive.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed. Ive summarised their detailed responses to our investigator. They 
felt her assessment of their complaint had been generic. They said that they wouldnt be 
able to make use of the vouchers because of future plans to begin a family. They added 
though they didnt think the reason they couldnt use the vouchers was relevant. They 
considered that the investigator had misinterpreted the policy terms, as it covered costs a 
policyholder had paid and couldnt get back. They said they hadnt paid in restrictive 
vouchers and so they didnt expect us to deem these vouchers to represent getting back 
their costs. As theyd paid in pounds sterling, this was what they should be paid back. They 
felt theyd made all reasonable attempts to get their money back. They didnt feel fair and 
reasonable considerations should apply to the terms of a contract  that its subjective. But 
as the parties to the contract, they felt the outcome the investigator reached wasnt fair or 
reasonable. And they didnt think AIG had complied with the terms of its contract.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AIG handled Mr and Mrs Ts claim fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about, amongst other 
things, the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts policy and the circumstances of their 
claim to decide whether AIG handled it fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs Ts contract with 
AIG. The cancellation section of the policy sets out the insured events it covers for unused 
costs a policyholder incurs if they need to cancel their trip. One of these insured events is 
the FCO advising against all but essential travel to a policyholders pre-booked destination. 
In this case, theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ts holiday was cancelled as a result of the 
FCO advising against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020. So I can understand why Mr 
and Mrs T feel that AIG should pay their claim for their unused accommodation costs. But 
the cancellation section also sets out the extent of the cover which AIG provides. It says: 
What you are covered for
We will pay up to £5,000 for:
 Travel and accommodation expenses which you have paid or have agreed to pay
under a contract and which you cannot get back.
I think AIG has made it clear within its policy wording that it will only cover travel and 
accommodation costs which a policyholder cant recover from elsewhere. AIG says that as S 
and O have each offered Mr and Mrs T a credit voucher for the full value of their booking; 
they havent suffered a financial loss (a loss they cant get back) which is covered by the 
policy.
Its clear Mr and Mrs T feel very strongly that as they paid for their bookings in cash and they 
havent received a like-for-like cash refund, the vouchers dont represent getting their costs 
back. So Ive carefully considered the terms of the credit vouchers to decide whether I think 
it was fair for AIG to conclude that the credit vouchers did represent a recovery of Mr and 
Mrs Ts financial losses.
Ive seen a copy of an email from S booking agent. This set out the details of Mr and Mrs Ts 
credit voucher, for the total cost of their booking, which would be valid at the same hotel for 
12 months from the date of issue. So I think it was fair for AIG to conclude that Mr and Mrs T 
hadnt suffered a financial loss for this booking, because the credit note would cover the full 
value of their pre-booked accommodation. And as S offered Mr and Mrs T a year to make 
use of the credit note. I dont think it was unreasonable for AIG to conclude in June 2020, 
when it assessed the claim, that Mr and Mrs T mightve been in a position to use the credit 
note before it expired. And Ive also seen an email from O. This stated that Mr and Mrs T were entitled to a credit 
note equal to the value of their booking costs (which had already been paid), which would be 
valid for 18 months from the date of issue. Again, given the credit voucher was equivalent to 
the booking cost, I think it was reasonable for AIG to decide Mr and Mrs T hadnt suffered a 
financial loss. This voucher also had a longer expiry date and as such, I think AIG was 
reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr and Mrs T mightve been able to make use of it. 
In my view, the terms of the credit vouchers arent overly restrictive. I can understand why 
Mr and Mrs T might prefer to get a cash refund for their bookings. Especially as I appreciate 
that future travel plans are currently uncertain and I appreciate that theyve told us the credit 
note is worthless to them. But taking everything into account, I think it was fair for AIG to 
consider, when it assessed their claim, that Mr and Mrs T havent suffered a financial loss for 
their booking with S and O in the circumstances of this case. So I think it was fair for AIG not 
to pay these costs in June 2020.
It seems Mr and Mrs Ts voucher with S may now have expired. If so, its open to Mr and Mrs 
T to get back in touch with AIG to ask it to assess a new claim if they now consider their loss 
to be irrecoverable, although they may first want to check with S agent whether the voucher 
can be extended. If theyre unhappy with AIGs response to any further claim, then they may 
be able to bring a new complaint to us about that issue alone.
But overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T, based on the available evidence, I 
dont think AIG did anything wrong when it assessed their claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman