DRN-1619656
 
The complaint
Mr K complains about the amount esure Insurance Limited charged him to keep his car after 
he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K made a claim to esure for the damage to his car after it was involved in an incident.
esure assessed the claim and declared Mr K's car a total loss, wrote it off and offered him a 
settlement figure. Mr K accepted this, but he wanted to have his car returned to him so he 
could repair the damage himself.
esure said if Mr K wanted his car back, it would reduce the amount it paid on his claim by 
35%. It said once it pays Mr K for the loss of his car, his car becomes its property. It said it 
would sell this to a savage agent, and as it was giving the car back to Mr K, it was only fair 
he pay them what it would have received from its salvage agent. It said the 35% reduction in 
the settlement offer represented this cost.
Mr K wasn't happy with this. He thought 35% was too much.
esure reduced the amount it wanted to charge Mr K to keep his car to 25% of he value of his 
car. But Mr K remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and at first he recommended it be upheld. He 
didn't think esure had done enough to demonstrate that it would have received 25% of the 
value of Mr K's car from its salvage agents, so he didn't think it was fair to charge Mr K this 
amount. He recommended it charge Mr K 20% of the value of his car.
esure disagreed and provided further evidence to show how much it would likely receive 
from its salvage agent. This evidence showed the amount it would likely receive to be higher 
than the 25% it wanted to charge Mr K to keep his car. Based on this, our investigator 
thought esure was acting fairly, and didn't recommend Mr K's complaint be upheld.
Mr K disagreed and has asked for an ombudsman to decide the outcome of his complaint
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm not upholding Mr K's 
complaint. I'll explain why below.
The terms and conditions of Mr K's policy say that when Mr K makes a claim for damage, 
esure will either repair the damage, pay Mr K the cost to repair the damage, or pay Mr K the 
market value of his car. In this case, it decided to pay Mr K the market value of his car - also 
known as a total loss.The terms of the policy also say that if esure settles Mr K's claim as a total loss, the car 
becomes its property. This isn't an unusual term and it's one we consider to be fair as it 
follows a general principle of insurance that once an insurer pays out for the total loss of an 
item it becomes the insurer's property.
Once a car becomes esure's property, it's free to dispose of it and it often does this by using 
a salvage agent. That agent usually will pay esure to take the car and dispose of it or repair 
it. What this means in practice is that after paying Mr K for the market value of his car, esure 
will likely get some money back by selling the car to its salvage agent. 
In this case, Mr K wanted to keep his car. And in many cases we think it's fair an 
insurer returns the car, so long as it's safe to do so. But by returning the car to Mr K, esure 
won't be able to sell the car to it's salvage agent. This means esure will be losing out. It also 
means Mr K would benefit from the claim, as he would have been paid the value of his car, 
and received the car back too, which we don't think is fair as his policy covers him for the 
market value of his car.  Therefore it's fair for esure to charge Mr K the same amount it 
would have received from it's salvage agent, should he want to keep his car.
In this case, I've seen the quotes esure received from its salvage agents for cars similar to 
his. These quotes show that esure would likely have received more than 25% of the market 
value of Mr K's car from its agents. So I'm satisfied esure is treating Mr K fairly by charging 
him 25% of the value of his car in order for him to keep it as this is less that it would likely 
receive from its salvage agents.
My final decision
Based on the above, my final decision is that I don't uphold Mr K's complaint against 
esure Insurance Limited 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2020.
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman