DRN-3713532
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by Hunter Mills Limited to transfer the benefits from 
his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss. Mr H also says that he was advised to transfer another pension into his 
personal pension plan later on, which he believes he could have done himself without an 
adviser because the value was less than £30,000.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Hs ex-employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In September 2017, the Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) was approved by 
the Pensions Regulator (under pensions law, a RAA is a restructuring mechanism which 
allows a financially troubled employer to detach itself from its liabilities in respect of a DB 
pension scheme.) As a result, scheme members would have a choice - either move into a 
new scheme (BSPS2) or remain in the existing scheme and move with it to the PPF.
Mr H was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the
security of his DB scheme, so he sought advice. In September 2017, following an 
introduction from another financial advice firm, Mr H met with Hunter Mills. It completed a 
financial planning questionnaire with him to gather information about his circumstances and 
objectives. Amongst other things this recorded that Mr H was aged 51; he was working full-
time; he was married; he jointly owned his own home; he jointly owned two investment (buy-
to-let) properties, which brought in an annual income of around £12,000; and he had no 
liabilities. Hunter Mills also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk, which it 
deemed to be low  a score of 3 out of 10.
On 6 October 2017, Hunter Mills advised Mr H to transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds within an investment fund which it deemed matched Mr Hs 
low attitude to risk approach. In summary, the suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were:
To provide Mr H with flexibility in how much and when he took his pension benefits.
To provide access to benefits  tax-free cash and/or income  earlier than the BSPS 
normal retirement age without penalty.
To offer the ability to take tax-free cash and defer taking an income.
To provide better lump sum death benefits.
To provide control of the investment.
To gain from the enhanced transfer value.
To leave the precarious financial state of the scheme.
Also in October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr H accepted the recommendation and sometime afterwards, around £529,000 was 
transferred into his new personal pension.
In 2021 Mr H complained to Hunter Mills about the suitability of the transfer advice as well as 
the point about the transfer of his other pension.
Hunter Mills didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. In summary it said that based on Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time, including his employment position, his assets and the ability to 
retire early it recommended the transfer. It said it pointed out the pros and cons of 
transferring. It set out the reasons why it believed the advice was suitable at the time as 
detailed in the recommendation report. It said it tried to help Mr H out in what was a difficult 
time and with a short window of time to make a decision. It said Mr Hs options were limited. 
In relation to Mr Hs point about the other pension he transferred later on in May 2018, they 
clarified that the £30,000 threshold did not apply to this pension because it did not contain 
safeguarded benefits. Overall it said it could not find evidence that Mr H has been 
disadvantaged.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr H asked us to consider the matter. An investigator upheld 
the complaint and required Hunter Mills to pay compensation. In summary they thought the 
advice given to Mr H to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension arrangement 
wasnt suitable and Hunter Mills had not demonstrated it was in his best interests. They said 
given the critical yield required to match Mr Hs scheme benefits at age 65, he was likely to 
be worse off in retirement as a result of transferring and investing in line with his low attitude 
to risk. They said despite the fact find recording that Mr H was considering retiring earlier 
than the schemes normal retirement age of 65, no analysis was produced based on earlier 
retirement. They said this shouldve been done to show Mr H what income and lump sum 
benefits were available to him through the scheme before advising him to transfer out. 
They said Hunter Mills told Mr H he couldnt access his pension benefits before age 60 
through the PPF. But they said this was incorrect and this was likely to have led to Mr H 
dismissing this option. They said any flexibility Mr H required couldve likely been met from 
his rental income and his two other defined contribution pensions. And with regards to 
providing lump sum death benefits, they said a pension is designed to primarily provide an 
income in retirement  they didnt think better death benefits was a reason for Mr H to give 
up guaranteed pension benefits. They said if things had happened as they should have, 
Mr H wouldve likely remained in the BSPS and moved with it to the PPF because of the 
more beneficial early retirement factors. They concluded by saying that they thought Mr H 
wouldnt have gone on to transfer his GPP benefits to his new personal pension in May 2018 
in light of their findings about the BSPS unsuitable advice. 
Hunter Mills disagreed. In summary it said there were clear advantages to Mr H leaving a 
failing pension scheme. It said Mr H had concerns about the financial security of the scheme 
because it said early retirement might not have been possible and death benefits were also 
provided at the discretion of the trustees  these were not an absolute right.  It said it didnt 
carry out any earlier age analysis in the TVAS report because Mr Hs early retirement wasnt 
100% certain  there were many variables impacting on his planning, so his retirement age 
wasnt fixed. But it said it did give an early retirement comparison from the scheme  it was 
mentioned to him that hed get 70% of his expected pension at 55 and 82% at age 60.It said it considered Mr Hs rental income to meet his need but it said this isnt guaranteed, 
so with rental income being taxable using drawdown to supplement any shortfall is suitable 
advice. It said because Mr Hs wife was younger and she intended to continue working, she 
wouldve been able to cover their household fixed expenses for a number of years. It said 
death benefits was a major factor  the BSPS wouldve only provided a 50% spouses 
pension, so the potential for a lump sum was a significant advantage over remaining in the 
scheme. It said the critical yield referred to in the suitability report was realistically achievable 
and Mr H has seen good performance on his investment, so he hasnt suffered loss.
Hunter Mills also went on to explain why it believes it was appropriate that it portrayed the 
PPF more negatively than the scheme  it involved a material reduction in benefits, lacked 
flexibility and there was no option of transferring out. It said there was a lot of negative 
sentiment surrounding the PPF amongst scheme members and it said the significance of 
this should not be underestimated. It referred to two pieces of communication from the BSPS 
trustees in May 2016 and January 2017 in which it says the trustees themselves were 
negative about the PPF. In conclusion it said it has demonstrated the advice was suitable 
based on Mr Hs circumstances, his risk profile and income need.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. They restated some of the key 
points they made in their initial finding including that they were satisfied the evidence 
indicates Mr H wanted to retire early at 55. 
Because the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was referred to me for a final 
decision.
Before issuing my final decision, I clarified to both parties that I didnt agree with the 
investigators final conclusion that because they didnt think the advice Mr H received to 
transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension was suitable, it automatically follows that 
the subsequent transfer of Mr Hs Group Personal Pension wouldnt have taken place and so 
Hunter Mills should also compensate Mr H for any loss he has suffered as a result of 
transferring this pension too. I felt this wasnt a fair conclusion to have reached based on the 
complaint Mr H had made. I said the focus of my decision would be about the suitability of 
the BSPS transfer advice.
I also answered Mr Hs complaint point about his GPP. I said that the £30,000 advice 
threshold limit did not apply to his GPP because it is not a DB pension. And I said that the 
evidence showed Mr Hs GPP transfer was carried out on an execution only basis without 
advice and that Mr H understood this and agreed to Hunter Mills fee for doing so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Hunter Mills actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Hunter Mills 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Hs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Hunter Mills carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Hs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). And this was based on his existing 
scheme benefits under the BSPS. But at the time of the advice, the RAA had been approved 
by the Pensions Regulator. And as a result, scheme members would have a choice - either 
move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or remain in the existing scheme and move with it to the 
PPF.
This means that at the time of the advice, basing the analysis on the existing scheme was
somewhat redundant - the existing scheme was no longer an option. So analysis of that
scheme wasnt helpful to Mr H. I think its reasonable to say that, in light of the 
announcement and knowing that Mr H would be receiving his Time to Choose information 
in October 2017, Hunter Mills shouldve waited for the details of the new scheme and based 
its advice and analysis on the BSPS2 instead. That way Mr H wouldve had all the relevant 
information to make a properly informed decision.
I accept, as Hunter Mills has said, that BSPS2 was far from being a certainty at the time of 
the advice. But in my view the available information from the scheme trustees indicated that 
the new scheme would go ahead. So I still think Hunter Mills shouldve waited and taken the 
benefits available to Mr H through the new BSPS2 into account in formulating its advice, so 
that he was able to make a properly informed decision.The written advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 
as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
In my view, the advice paperwork paints a somewhat confusing picture about Mr Hs target 
retirement date. In some sections of the paperwork reference is made to a target retirement 
age of 67, in other sections the target age is 65 and that Mr H had no retirement plans, while 
in other places it says Mr H wanted to retire early at 55 or 55/56. Hunter Mills says this is 
because Mr Hs plans werent fixed. But I can see that in an email from Mr Hs wife during 
the early stages of the advice process, she told Hunter Mills that Mr H wanted to retire at 55 
 she added that he wanted things to be as secure as possible so he doesnt get to 55 and 
think he has to work for another year or two.
I think this is clear evidence that Mr Hs intention was to retire at 55 and that ought 
reasonably to have been apparent to Hunter Mills. But whether Mr Hs plans were set in 
stone or not, given Mr Hs indication of his likely plans, I think this is what Hunter Mills 
advice and analysis shouldve been based on. Yet despite that, Hunter Mills only produced 
analysis based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65  it didnt also include analysis 
at Mr Hs target retirement age of 55 which I think is the advice Mr H appears to have been 
seeking. So not only was the analysis based on the existing scheme benefits, which was 
somewhat redundant as I said, it also wasnt based on the benefits available to Mr H at his 
intended or target retirement age. I dont think this was very helpful to Mr H.
I can see Hunter Mills says it did provide Mr H with an early retirement comparison from the 
scheme  but this was only to the extent of telling him what income he would likely receive. It 
was not a complete analysis showing how much Mr Hs transferred pension fund would need 
to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme based on early 
retirement.
For this reason, there seems little point dwelling on Hunter Mills analysis. But the critical 
yield required to match Mr Hs benefits under the existing BSPS at age 65 was 7.69% 
assuming he took a full pension and 6.16% assuming he took a cash lump sum and a 
reduced pension. The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 
was quoted as 3.7% and 3.14% per year respectively. The lower annual increases under the 
BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat - but I still think they wouldve 
likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits and closer to the existing scheme, 
particularly at age 65.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.1% per year for 13 years to retirement (age 65.) It was 2.8% for three years to 
retirement (age 55.) Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained 
unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Hs 
low attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view, there would be little point in 
Mr H giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. 
But here, based on what Ive said above about the likely BSPS2 critical yields, I think Mr H 
was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than those provided by the BSPS2 (if he were to opt into it) at retirement, as a result of transferring and investing in line 
with a low attitude to risk.  In my view, the position would be no different even if the scheme 
moved to the PPF (or if the BSPS2 didnt go ahead and Mr H moved with the scheme to the 
PPF.)
Given the above, it seems likely to me that based on a retirement age of 55, while the 
benefits available under the BSPS2 and the PPF would be lower due to the reduction 
factors, because of the limited term to retirement the critical yields would be greater than 
those produced by Hunter Mills based on a retirement age of 65. So, Im not persuaded the 
financial viability of the transfer wouldve been any different based on Mr Hs target 
retirement age of 55  I think he would more likely than not be worse off in retirement as a 
result of transferring.
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the BSPS wasnt in Mr Hs best interests. But I accept 
that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be 
other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income need
Hunter Mills recommended the transfer because it offered Mr H flexibility  the ability for him 
to choose how much and when he took income as well as the ability to take a lump sum and 
defer taking an income. 
But Im not persuaded Mr H truly required flexibility in retirement.
As I said above, I think Mr H wanted to retire early at 55. And Mr H already had the option to 
do so before the schemes normal retirement age  he didnt have to transfer out to achieve 
this. Mr H might have had to accept a reduced pension in doing so  but I think Hunter Mills 
couldve done more to explain that this wasnt a penalty as it sometimes referred to it as in 
the advice paperwork. This was an actuarial reduction to reflect that Mr H couldnt expect to 
receive the same pension hed be entitled to at 65 ten years earlier because it would 
potentially be paid for longer. And similarly by transferring, this didnt mean that Mr H could 
draw the income he was entitled to from the DB scheme at 65 at age 55 without potential 
consequences. A shorter investment period followed by a larger income withdrawal could 
mean Mr Hs pension fund wouldnt be able to sustain this over his lifetime. I think Hunter 
Mills couldve better explained this. 
I accept Mr H couldnt take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could choose to 
take a cash lump sum and a reduced annual pension, Mr H had to take those benefits at the 
same time. But nothing here indicates that Mr H had a genuine need to access his tax-free 
cash at 55 and defer taking his income. I say this because Hunter Mills didnt for example 
record that Mr H needed to repay an outstanding liability that required repayment at this time 
and access to his pension benefits was the only means of repayment. It also didnt record 
that Mr H was planning any significant capital expenditure. 
I also cant see evidence that Mr H had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. Mr H might have had rental income that as Hunter Mills acknowledges cant 
always be guaranteed,  but Im not persuaded this demonstrates a strong need for variable 
income. Hunter Mills also didnt record that Mr Hs expenditure needs were likely to vary 
significantly throughout his retirement.
So it strikes me that flexibility was simply a feature or a consequence of transferring to a personal pension arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Hs at the time. In any 
event, Mr H had two existing defined contribution pensions which he could access flexibly  
so any need for flexibility couldve likely been achieved with these.
Turning to Mr Hs income need  while Hunter Mills didnt carry out a detailed income and 
expenditure in retirement analysis, it recorded that Mr H needed around £13,000 a year 
income. Unfortunately, as I said earlier on, Hunter Mills didnt produce analysis showing 
what income Mr H could expect from the BSPS2 or the PPF at 55. At 65, under the existing 
scheme, it was around £29,000 a year  given the reduced revaluation factors, under the 
BSPS2 this figure would be lower, but in my view still close to it -  and through the PPF it 
was just under £24,000 a year. So at age 55, the income Mr H would receive from either the 
BSPS2 or the PPF(if the BSPS2 didnt go ahead or Mr H moved with the existing scheme to 
the PPF) would be lower. But given Mr Hs recorded income need of £13,000, it appears his 
objective could be met by remaining in the DB scheme. Mr H couldve supplemented his 
income with his rental income - he also had two other pensions he could access flexibly and 
his wife was also planning to continue to work for a few more years before she retired. It was 
recorded that Mr Hs wife also had her own private pension provision in addition to the state 
pension.
So, I think Mr H couldve likely met his income needs in retirement through the BSPS2 or the 
PPF. And I dont think it was in Mr Hs best interests for him to transfer his pension just to 
have flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed.
Death benefits
Hunter Mills also recommended the transfer to enable Mr H to pass on his pension to his 
wife in the form of a lump sum death benefit. The suitability report recorded that the BSPS 
would provide a 50% spouses pension and the only lump sum benefit was a return of Mr Hs 
contributions. It was recorded that Mr H found this completely disagreeable.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr H. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not as a legacy planning or an inheritance 
planning tool. And Im not persuaded Hunter Mills explored to what extent Mr H was 
prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr Hs 
wife might have had her own private pension provision, but I still think the 50% spouses 
pension wouldve been useful to his spouse if Mr H predeceased her. I dont think Hunter 
Mills made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr H. This was guaranteed and it 
escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining 
on death in a personal pension was. So if Mr H lived a long life and/or investment returns 
were poor, there might not be much if anything left to leave to his wife anyway. 
In any event, Hunter Mills should not have encouraged Mr H to prioritise the potential for 
higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr H genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Hunter 
Mills shouldve instead explored life insurance. But there is no evidence that it considered 
this. It neednt have been the case that the starting point for the sum assured had to be for 
the full transfer value. A more considered approach was appropriate here  i.e. asking Mr H how much he would ideally like to leave to his family taking account of existing provision. 
And this couldve been explored on either a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was 
likely to be a more affordable option.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension arrangement justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. And I dont 
think that insurance was properly explored as a suitable alternative.
Control and concerns about financial stability of BSPS
I understand that Mr H, like many of his colleagues no doubt, was concerned about his 
pension. His ex-employer had recently made an announcement about it plans and Mr H was 
likely worried his pension would end up in the PPF. There were also lots of negative things 
circulating about the PPF. So its quite possible that Mr H was leaning towards the decision 
to transfer because of the concerns he had. It also appears that Hunter Mills supported 
Mr Hs concerns, which in part led to its recommendation to transfer. 
But it was Hunter Mills obligation to give Mr H an objective picture and recommend what 
was in his best interests. Im not persuaded Hunter Mills did that. As I explained earlier on, at 
the time of the advice the RAA had been agreed and the plans for the scheme were set out 
 it seemed more likely at this stage that the BSPS2 would go ahead. So Hunter Mills 
shouldve waited for Mr Hs forthcoming Time to Choose information and the advice 
shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr H through the BSPS2 into account. I 
think this wouldve alleviated some of Mr Hs broader concerns about the scheme as a whole 
moving to the PPF.
Hunter Mills has said that it was appropriate for it to have portrayed the PPF more negatively 
than the scheme and it has referred to the schemes trustees communications from 2016 
and early 2017 in which it says the trustees expressed similarly negative views about the 
PPF. But not only were the communications Hunter Mills refers to many months prior to its 
advice to Mr H and were crucially prior to the RAA being approved as I set out above, the 
negative sentiments about the PPF expressed in these communications were in my view in 
the context of the risk of the entire scheme and so all of its members regardless ending up in 
the PPF.  
But in Mr Hs specific case and circumstances, I think that Hunter Mills shouldve reassured 
Mr H that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought or been led to 
believe. Importantly, Mr H still had the option of taking early retirement at age 55 through the 
PPF. I think Hunter Mills was wrong to say that Mr H couldnt take his benefits before age 60 
through the PPF. I think its likely this wrongly led to both Hunter Mills and Mr H discounting 
this as a suitable option. While I accept Mr H wouldve faced a reduction in benefits, there 
was a more favourable reduction for very early retirement (age 55 for example) and the tax-
free cash available to Mr H was also more favourable than the BSPS2 as this age. The 
income Mr H would likely receive through the PPF at age 55 appears to have been sufficient 
to meet his needs and crucially I dont think he was likely to be able to exceed this by 
transferring out. 
And while the annual indexation in payment was lower, the income was still guaranteed and 
was not subject to any investment risk. Mr H might not have been able to later transfer out of 
the PPF  but given what I said earlier on about him not having any flexibility needs beyond 
that which he already had, I dont think there was an apparent need for him to do so.
So I dont think that Mr Hs concerns about the scheme was a compelling reason to 
recommend a transfer out of the BSPS altogether.Summary
I accept that Mr H was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about the scheme were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded 
like attractive features to Mr H. But Hunter Mills wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might 
have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr H needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, whether through the proposed BSPS2 or the
PPF. By transferring to a personal arrangement Mr H was very likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits at his intended retirement age. And in my view, there were no other 
particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in 
Mr Hs best interests for him to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension at this time.
So, I think Hunter Mills shouldve advised Mr H not to transfer out and that in light of his 
intended retirement age, he should remain in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF.
As I said above, while the annual indexation in payment was lower, because Mr Hs 
retirement plans were reasonably known i.e. he intended to retire early at 55, I think it was in 
his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he wouldve faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF because it would be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. 
The tax-free cash available to Mr H was also more favourable. Mr H might not have been 
able to later transfer out, but I dont think he had any real reason to do so.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr H would've gone ahead anyway, against Hunter 
Mills advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS, against Hunter Mills advice. I say this because, while as Ive 
already said Mr H was likely motivated to transfer when he approached Hunter Mills, I still 
think Mr H wouldve listened to and followed its advice if things had happened as they should 
have and it recommended he not transfer out of the scheme. Mr H was an inexperienced 
investor and he was not, in my view, someone who possessed the requisite skill, knowledge 
or confidence to against the advice they were given, particularly in complex pension matters. 
Mr Hs pension accounted for the majority of his private retirement provision and he had a 
low attitude to risk. So, if Hunter Mills had provided him with clear advice against transferring 
out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted 
that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Hs concerns about the scheme were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. 
If Hunter Mills had explained that Mr H could likely meet all of his objectives without risking 
his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr H 
wouldve insisted on transferring out of the BSPS against Hunter Mills advice.
In light of the above, I think Hunter Mills should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the
above, it is the benefits available to him through the PPF that should be used for
comparison purposes.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr H. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish Hunter Mills  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional 
and practical impact this had on Mr H. Taking everything into account, including that I 
consider Mr H is now at the age when his retirement provision is of great importance to him, 
I think the unsuitable advice has caused him some distress. So I think an award of £300 is 
fair in all the circumstances.
I can see Hunter Mills has, on several occasions, pointed to the fact that Mr H subsequently 
transferring a third pension into his personal pension and that hes now drawing an income 
higher than his annual salary was at the time of the advice. Hunter Mills says this 
demonstrates a drawdown arrangement suits Mr H and that its advice and recommended 
product was suitable. It has asked for this to be taken into consideration in determining this 
complaint. But my decision is concerned with the events and Mr Hs circumstances at the 
time of the advice in 2017  not whats happened subsequently. And it is based on Mr Hs 
circumstances and objectives at the time which leads me to find that the advice given to him 
to transfer out of the BSPS to a personal pension arrangement was not suitable or in his 
best interests. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would most 
likely have remained in the BSPS and moved with it to the PPF if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Hunter Mills Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Hunter Mills Limited should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the 
redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr H and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr H retired at 55 and he has started taking benefits. So, compensation should 
be based on him taking benefits at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Hunter Mills Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts Hunter Mills Limiteds offer to calculate how much of their redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Hunter Mills Limited may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr H s likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Hunter Mills should pay Mr H £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Hunter Mills Limited to 
pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Hunter Mills Limited pays Mr H the balance.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Hunter Mills Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman