DRN-3074933
The complaint
Mrs C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc restricted access to her account.
What happened
Mrs C says she found out on 13 November 2020 that her bank card didnt work. When she 
phoned NatWest, she was told to send an email to the fraud team. And that it didnt operate 
over the weekend. She says that the payments that had been reported as fraudulent were 
from her husband who she was separated from. And that she had been receiving payments 
regularly in this way. The restriction wasnt lifted until 18 November 2020.
NatWest said that it had received a report that transfers into Mrs Cs account had been 
reported as fraudulently obtained. It restricted the account in line with its process and said 
that it would then need to have contact from Mrs C. The relevant team didnt operate over 
the weekend. When it reviewed the position, it decided that this was a dispute between    
Mrs C and her husband, and it lifted the restriction. It recognised the time Mrs C had spent 
on calls and that it could have explained a bit more about why the account was blocked. 
NatWest apologised and paid £5.40 towards call costs.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. NatWest had acted in line 
with its process to address reports of fraud. And this was to protect the money involved. He 
appreciated that the surname of Mrs C and her husband were the same and that she had 
received money regularly in the past. And also, that she had transferred back £100 of the 
money to her husband on the day of the fraud report. This was all taken into account by 
NatWest and as it hadnt made a mistake there was no basis for it to compensate Mrs C for 
her stress and inconvenience.
Mrs C didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that her husband 
made a mistake and she ought to have been allowed to clarify this. There was no number for 
her to call the fraud team about this and she was left without access to money for her family. 
Mrs C said that she was the one that suffered, and she had been a customer of NatWest for 
years. The impact on her was more than the £5.40 she had been paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact of what happened for Mrs C. Im not looking here at why 
this claim of fraud came to be raised: thats been Mrs C and her husband. The issue is that 
NatWest received this claim from a third-party bank and had reason to believe Mrs C wasnt 
entitled to money in her account.
I think it was reasonable for NatWest to take this seriously and so I dont have a basis to find 
it made a mistake when it acted in line with its normal process. That process isnt something 
we have a role in reviewing as we arent the regulator. 
All of the explanations Mrs C gave were taken into account when it reviewed the position. 
And it was unfortunate that the timing of the claim came on a Friday and it wasnt looked at 
over the weekend. But NatWest acted to protect any funds that did remain. And I cant say 
as Mrs C insists that it needed to speak to her first. It accepts she made a number of calls 
about what happened and went into a branch. But I dont have a reasonable basis to require 
it to compensate her for the inconvenience and stress she describes and not being able to 
make payments. I know she will be very disappointed by my findings and that I wont be 
asking NatWest to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman