DRN-1347116
The complaint
Mr R complains that Studio Retail Limited (SR) mishandled his accounts.
What happened
Mr R had two accounts with SR and I gather his initial complaint was that he didnt receive 
cash back from a transaction as expected. It also appears that some of the items he bought 
were not delivered. After seven missing deliveries SR decided to close his accounts and 
write off the balances which were a little over £330.
Mr R had an interest opt out plan and it seems that SRs systems dont allow for the sum to 
be written off immediately and so he continued to receive demands and his credit file was 
adversely affected. Mr R says he tried to buy a phone but was refused as his credit rating 
was poor due to the markers placed on it by SR. In response to Mr Rs complaint SR agreed 
that in addition to writing off the charges for the undelivered items it would ensure any 
arrears were cleared from his file each month to save entries being made on his credit file
Mr R brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. He recommended it be upheld. He thought that as SR hadnt explained that 
one of the accounts couldnt be immediately closed this meant Mr R received arears letters 
and his credit file was impacted. For that he thought SR should pay Mr R £100 
compensation.
SR didnt agree and said it had been supportive of Mr R and had written off some £330. It 
said it was manually monitoring his account and he had been given a dedicated member of 
staff. Mr R said that his credit file was still being affected after the time when it was 
supposed to have been settled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that SR has sought to be supportive of Mr R and it has written off his outstanding 
balances. It has done so on the basis that it accepts that a number of deliveries were not 
received. It has suggested that this was generous decision on its part and it may have been, 
but it did decide to write off the outstanding balances and my concern lies with what 
happened next.
It seems that SRs systems didnt allow for one account to be cleared in full and so Mr R 
continued to receive demands and more importantly his credit rating was affected. SR has 
said that Mr R was happy with this and was prepared to defer buying the phone he wanted 
to after December 2019 when the account would be cleared in full.
He may have taken that view, but I dont consider it is right that he was made to delay a 
purchase because SRs systems didnt accommodate clearing his balance in a way that had no impact on him. Furthermore, he has sent in demands from SR he received in January 
after the account should have been cleared.
Putting things right
I accept SR arranged for one person to deal with Mr R and to be as supportive of him as it 
could and it deserves recognition for that. However, he was left in a situation which was to 
his detriment.  Having written off outstanding sums and having accepted a number of 
deliveries went astray what followed should have been straightforward and not have caused 
Mr R any distress or inconvenience. That didnt happen and I think he is entitled to some 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Studio Retail Limited to pay Mr R 
compensation of £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman