DRN-4215410
The complaint
Mrs K complains about Studio Retail Limiteds refusal to refund her account with sums 
relating to the purchase of goods which she says were returned.
Mrs Ks complaint has been brought by a representative. My references to submissions 
made by Mrs K include those made by her representative.
What happened
Mrs K used her account with Studio to purchase and finance two items of furniture. Says she 
asked to return the items and did so, but was subsequently told by Studio that only one item 
had been received.
Mrs K says that she raised a complaint with Studio, and then did so with this service as 
studio hadnt responded. 
By the time this service considered the matter, Studio had responded. Mrs K provided two 
responses from Studio about the return of the goods  the first said that it would investigate 
further, and the second said that it had closed the file on her complaint. Mrs K specifically 
raised issue about how Studio had addressed inappropriately her in one of its emails. 
Studio accepted that the language used in one of its emails hadnt been appropriate, 
however, it argued that Mrs Ks complaint about the return of goods is not a regulated 
activity. It said this service didnt have the power to consider the complaint.
Our investigator agreed that whether or not the goods had been returned was a retail 
complaint, and not something this service had the power to consider a complaint about. 
However, they also said that we have the jurisdiction to consider whether Studio had acted 
fairly by asking Mrs K to repay the lending it had provided under her regulated finance 
agreement, despite her dispute about the return of the goods. Studio agreed that we had the 
power to consider that part of the complaint. Our investigator ultimately concluded that it was 
fair for Studio to ask Mrs K to repay those sums. 
Mrs K didnt agree. She asked for a decision on the matter, so the case has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio comes under this services jurisdiction, but it has acted in two different capacities in 
dealing with Mrs K. Theres an important distinction to be made here, and its relevant to 
whether or not the complaint relates to an activity we can consider. 
In selling goods to Mrs K, Studio has acted as a retailer. It was also acting as a retailer in 
handling a dispute about the return of goods. This service has no power to consider 
complaints about Studios activities as a retailer.
Im aware that Mrs K is disappointed with the time its taken for Studio to respond to her 
concerns, as well as the language it used in those responses. From what Ive seen though, 
the concerns its been dealing with and responded to are in relation to its retail activities. 
Therefore, I cannot comment on Mrs Ks concerns relating to the speed or quality of Studios 
responses. 
That being said, Studio has also acted as the provider of regulated lending to Mrs K by 
providing her with a running credit account regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Our 
rules (known as DISP and found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook) say that we 
can consider complaints about a business covered by our jurisdiction as long the complaint 
is about a regulated activity, or other specified. DISP 2.3.1R specifically sets this out. 
The regulated activities our rules refer to are set out in The Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). Article 60B(2) of the RAO says that 
exercising a lenders rights and duties under a regulated credit agreement is a regulated 
activity. 
Studio has attempted to exercise a lenders rights and duties under a regulated credit 
agreement by asking Mrs K to repay sums lent to her under her running account credit 
agreement. Mrs K asserts that Studio has not acted fairly by declining to refund sums to that 
agreement, in other words, shes expressed dissatisfaction about the administration of her 
regulated credit agreement. Thats something which this service has the power to consider a 
complaint about  independently of any dispute about Studios retail activity.
So, I can consider whether Studio has acted fairly in asking Mrs K to repay the lending it 
provided to her and whether or not it ought to refund those sums, independently of Mrs Ks 
dispute regarding whether or not the goods had been returned to Studio. 
Mrs Ks regulated agreement set out that Studio would provide lending for certain purchases 
and also the terms on which she would be required to repay that lending. It doesnt say that 
Mrs K neednt repay the lending or would receive a refund in the event of a dispute about the 
goods being returned. And its clear theres a dispute between Mrs K and Studio about 
whether or not the goods were returned. 
Taking that into account, I dont think that Studio has acted unfairly by asking Mrs K to repay 
sums it lent her under the agreement, despite her dispute, nor has it acted unfairly by 
declining to refund those sums.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman