DRN-2240181
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to credit his account 
following a deposit he made through their ATM. 
What happened
Mr A says that he made a deposit of £255.25 into his account via Nationwides ATM 
machine and shortly after made a second deposit of £300. When the ATM failed to produce 
a receipt for the second deposit, he went into the branch to query this and was told the 
money would be credited to his account the following day. 
The next day Nationwide credited Mr As account with £300 and then reversed this the same 
day, saying  this was an error on their part. Mr A then checked with the branch regarding the 
amounts deposited to find he had been credited with £300 and £265. Nationwide then 
reversed the £265 at a later date, as they say this was related to another members account. 
Nationwide left the £300 in his account but didnt provide Mr A with an explanation behind 
this. Mr A complained to Nationwide as he couldnt produce the receipts they asked for and 
says the matter was reported to the police.
Mr A wants Nationwide to put his account back into the position that reflects the two deposits 
he made of £255.25 and £300. 
Nationwide says that they have checked their records and CCTV. Their records show that 
Mr A made a  deposit of £300 but this sum was rejected by the ATM at that time. Nationwide 
says that the CCTV shows that no other members seem to have taken the money any time 
after the deposit was made, although the footage is now no longer available. Nationwide 
says they allowed Mr A to keep the £300 rather than £255.25 and say the £265 wasnt Mr 
As monies but that of another member. Nationwide say they have acted fairly here and in 
fact Mr A has received £44.75 more than he actually deposited to his account. 
Mr A wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the information available and upheld Mr As complaint. She says 
that there was evidence of issues with the ATM that day and Nationwide had admitted to 
making other mistakes on Mr As account. The investigator felt that given the problems that 
day, on balance, Nationwide had made an error and not Mr A and they should refund Mr A 
with £255.25, refund any charges made to his account as a result and 8% in statutory 
interest from the date of the deposit and £50 for stress and inconvenience caused.
Nationwide were unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator and I will explain 
how I have come to my decision.
When looking into this complaint I have considered what was the most likely series of 
events, based on the evidence and testimonies of both parties I have been provided with. 
What Mr A says happened was he made two deposits for £255.25 and £300 and the latter 
deposit was taken by the ATM, but he didnt get any form of receipt. He  waited for a few 
minutes then went into the branch to query this, he was assured at the time the monies 
would be credited the following day . 
What, actually happened was Mr As flex direct account was credited and debited the 
following day with £300 and the day after was credited with £300 and £265. A week later 
£265 was debited to his account.
Nationwide accept that they made errors with the deposits made to Mr As account and say 
that the initial £300 deposited was reversed when they noticed an R marker indicating there 
was an issue with the deposit. The following day Nationwide made two further errors by 
crediting Mr As account with the £300 again and a further sum of £265. Nationwide says 
that another member provided a receipt to show the £265 was their deposit so this was then 
debited to Mr As account. Nationwide says they tried to call Mr A about this but were unable 
to contact him.
There are conflicting statements provided by both parties as Mr A says he didnt receive a 
receipt when he paid in the £300 and thats is why he immediately went into the branch, 
while Nationwide says CCTV indicates he was waiting by the ATM and took something from 
the machine.The CCTV footage is no longer available and in any event from what 
Nationwide say, it wasnt conclusive.
It is worth mentioning on the day of the deposits made by Mr A, Nationwide had experienced 
issues with the ATM and the deposits of other members as the ATM hadnt recorded details 
of any envelopes deposited that day. This would signify Mr A wasnt the only member to 
have disputed transactions that day. Afterall that is what happened with the £265 credited to 
Mr As account, which Nationwide says was a result of another members keying error.  
While I can see that Nationwide have provided information suggesting the £300 deposit was 
rejected by the ATM. I cant see that this means that the funds were returned to Mr A as the 
R referred to by Nationwide on their reconciliation, by their own admission, could also mean 
the cash simply  jammed in the machine. 
What is unclear and important here, is why the initial £255.25 that Nationwide says was 
deposited by Mr A never appeared on his account statement. Nationwide say they decided 
to leave the £300 deposited on the account but havent provided this service with a clear 
reason why they would do this. If this was for a gesture of goodwill, I would have expected 
Nationwide to have contacted Mr A by some means to explain the transactions before he 
disputed it with them. Nationwide have said the ATM did reconcile that day although that 
seems at odds with the fact £300 was credited to Mr As account rather than the £255.25 
Nationwide says was deposited. 
Nationwide have suggested that the use of the ATM had increased during the pandemic and 
members had made keying errors, but there is nothing to support that this was the case here 
and Mr A was a regular and experienced user of the ATM.  Given the mistakes accepted by Nationwide and their lack of clarity surrounding the £255.25 
deposit alongside the issues with Nationwides ATM that day, on balance, I am satisfied  that 
in all probability £300 was paid into the ATM that day by Mr A, along with the £255.25, which 
Nationwide have acknowledged. 
While Nationwide will be disappointed with my decision, I support the investigators view 
here.
Putting things right
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to refund Mr A £255.25, along with 8% statutory 
interest from the 28 April 2020 to the date of settlement and any charges debited as a result 
of these funds not being credited to Mr As flex direct account. A further £50 should be paid 
for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to refund Mr A £255.25, along with 8% statutory 
interest from the 28 April 2020 to the date of settlement and any charges debited as a result 
of these funds not being credited to Mr As  flex direct account. A further £50 should be paid 
for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman