DRN-3169318
The complaint
Mr A has complained about his motor insurer Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIE) 
because, following an accident he was involved in, it has declined his claim and refused to 
cover the other drivers costs too.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr A was involved in an accident in his car on his way to work. When he 
made a claim to AIE it said it wouldnt cover his claim because he hadnt selected the option 
of using his car for commuting purposes when arranging the policy. Mr A said he hadnt 
realised he needed to, it had been an oversight on his part  but if AIE would add the cover 
now, hed pay any extra premium it might charge. AIE said this wasnt possible  Mr A had 
chosen what he wanted to be covered for and the policy terms were clear about that. It said 
as Mr A had driven in breach of the policy terms (by using the car to go to work) it wouldnt 
cover his claim, or any costs claimed by the other driver involved in the crash.
Our investigator noted the terms and that Mr A had breached them. She felt AIE had acted 
fairly and reasonably. The complaint was passed to me and I felt this was really a case of 
whether Mr A had misrepresented himself to AIE when he arranged cover. That being the 
case I needed to know what AIE would have done if Mr A had told it when he arranged the 
cover that he would also be using the car for commuting. AIE provided further evidence 
which I considered. 
Having done so I issued a provisional decision to share my views on the complaint with both 
parties. I explained that I felt this was an issue of misrepresentation and, as such, AIE could 
only reasonably act in line with the relevant legislation  which meant that, in this case, its 
refusal to cover Mr As claim had been unfair. I said it would have to do a number of things to 
put matters right, including paying Mr A £750 compensation. 
I said provisionally:
Misrepresentation
Mr A said he made a mistake when arranging this cover. And that when hes arranged new 
cover since hes made sure to select commuting as he now understands he needs to. So 
I think its clear that Mr A made a mistake when he arranged the cover with AIE. Mr A 
mistakenly told AIE that he used the car for social/domestic purposes, incorrectly assuming 
this meant he could use the car for work. Id emphasise that Mr As mistake was in 
answering a question asked of him about how he uses his car  it was not the case that Mr A 
was telling AIE what type of cover he was looking for. That difference is important as Mr As 
answer was used by AIE to assess the risk he presents to it in offering him cover. Where a 
mistake like this occurs there is legislation in place which sets out what the insurer is entitled 
to do  Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). And 
CIDRA refers to a mistake of the type Mr S made as a misrepresentation.
What CIDRA entitles AIE to do
I know that AIE feels that its unfair for Mr A to retrospectively be given cover he did not 
choose to take out. However, because Mr A was answering AIEs question about how he 
uses his car when he made the mistake, AIE can only reasonably do what CIDRA allows it to 
in the relevant circumstances. CIDRA says that where, if it had been given the correct 
information, an insurer would have done something differently, it can re-write the cover in 
that way. But where the difference would have been in respect of the premium charged for 
cover, CIDRA says that the insurers remedy is to reduce the claim settlement 
proportionately in line with the difference in premium cost. CIDRA doesnt allow for the policy 
to be cancelled in this sort of instance or for the claim to be declined. 
Here AIE has shown us that it would still have offered a policy to Mr A, but it would have 
charged an extra premium. Its shown it would have charged Mr A £177 for the cover against 
the £168 actually charged (before any additional costs or fees were added). In those 
circumstances CIDRA allows AIE to settle a claim proportionately. By that I mean it can work 
out what percentage of the correct premium the policyholder had actually paid compared to 
what they should have paid and limit its settlement of any claim to that percentage (as set 
against the overall settlement figure). In this case I make AIEs liability to be 94.9%.
So AIE had no right to refuse to deal with Mr As claim. What it should have done, in line with 
the remedy CIDRA provides, was re-write the cover and assess the claim in line with the 
new cover, taking into account the pro-rating. AIEs decline of the claim on policy terms was 
unfair and unreasonable. 
So I thought about what AIE should do to put things right.
AIE didnt cancel Mr As policy, and he has since found alternate cover elsewhere which 
includes commuting. So I think his loss is relatively limited. But I bear in mind that the decline 
of the claim has given Mr A a lot of worry, especially when AIE told him it wouldnt pay any 
costs claimed by the other driver and it was aware these were already at £1,000. Mr A has 
told us hes recently felt the need to make an offer to the other driver of £4,000 as he was 
getting ever more threatening letters. But hes said he made the offer conditional on the 
outcome of this complaint, and hes not had a reply yet.
I think AIE left Mr A without support at a very difficult time. I think he had little choice but to 
start responding to the communication from the other drivers representatives. Whilst if AIE 
had handled this properly, Mr A would never have been left with the worry he has or been 
put through the inconvenience of dealing with the other drivers representatives. Further AIE 
would have fixed, or paid him most of the cost to fix his own car. As it is, whilst Mr A has 
been able to drive in the meantime, hes had the additional worry of trying to find a way to 
repair the car without insurance funds. AIE, if it had followed CIDRA, would always have 
been able to ask Mr A for a contribution, but that would have left Mr A in a very different, 
much more favourable position than he has been in. Not least as given the difference in 
costs, even a proportionate contribution from Mr A will likely be fairly minimal. 
To address the impact of AIEs unfair handling of the matter, I think AIE should pay Mr A 
£750 compensation.
AIE will also have to deal with the claims on the basis of it being 94.9% liable for the loss.
 
Further, if Mr A was charged more for the new policy he arranged, against what he would 
always have had to pay AIE if hed declared his commuting, then Ill likely make it reimburse 
that overpayment, plus interest*. The interest would be added to each overpaid sum Mr A 
has paid, from the date of payment until settlement is made.
Mr A said he accepted my findings. In doing so he didnt provide any evidence of or 
comment on the cost of his premiums. 
AIE said it disagreed with my findings. Its response can be summarised as:This isnt an issue of misrepresentation; so CIDRA shouldnt apply and Mr A shouldnt 
just be able to add a level of cover after the accident.
If this is viewed as a misrepresentation, meaning CIDRA does apply; the website was 
clear and Mr A must have known he was giving the wrong answer, so Mr A acted 
recklessly when he misrepresented how he uses the car.
The policy documents, issued after the sale, directed Mr A to check all the details were 
correct and they specified excluding commuting.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my view on this complaint hasnt changed. Ive provided below an 
explanation of why AIEs points in reply dont change my decision.
If Mr A had been asked at the start of the application; what type of cover do you want, then 
my view might be different. But, as I said provisionally, that was not the question asked or 
how the issue was broached in the policy application. I remain of the view that CIDRA 
applies in this case.
CIDRA says that where an insurer wants to view a policyholder as having acted recklessly 
(as opposed to carelessly), it is for the insurer to show that is the case. AIE says the website 
clearly explains what social and domestic means and that if the car is used to travel to and 
from work, commuting should be selected. But it hasnt shown me that Mr A had to read that 
information before answering the question or progressing the application. From the 
screenshot it sent I see that theres a help (question mark) icon next to this, and some other, 
questions. Seemingly the prospective policyholder has to click on or hover over the icon for 
the information contained to become visible. AIE hasnt shown that Mr A did this. And this 
service often finds that questions which rely on the applicant reading help information like 
this arent necessarily clear. Importantly, AIE hasnt convinced me that Mr A most likely knew 
he was giving it an untrue or misleading answer when he gave the answer he did.
As AIE says, the policy documents are sent after the sale. Ideally Mr A should have read the 
policy documents and spotted the mistake hed made. But he didnt and that doesnt change 
what CIDRA says AIE must do in light of the mistake Mr A had made at the point the policy 
was applied for and agreed to.
Putting things right
I require AIE to:
Settle the accident claim on Mr As policy, in respect of Mr A and the other driver, on the 
basis it was 94.9% liable for the loss.
Pay Mr A £750 compensation.
If Mr A presents it evidence of having paid extra premiums for his new policy, as against 
what AIE would have charged him for the correct cover including commuting, it will have 
to reimburse the extra cost. Plus interest* added to each overpaid sum Mr A paid, from 
the date of payment until settlement is made. But, for that interest to be added, Mr A will 
need to provide this evidence to AIE within 28 days of the date of my final decision.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. AIE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr A, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to provide the redress 
set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman