DRN-3721203
The complaint
Miss R complains that HSBC have failed to refund over £230,000 she lost as part of an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again in detail here. In brief summary, Miss R made payments totalling over £230,000 
between March 2018 and January 2019 (from two separate HSBC accounts) which she says 
has been lost as part of an APP scam. 
Miss R says she believed she was paying a building companys business account after 
receiving invoices for work she was having completed on her property. She thought the 
building company was passing the money along to the various suppliers involved in the 
works. However, Miss R discovered that she was instead paying the personal account of the 
building companys director, (whom Ill refer to as J) who was only passing part of the 
money onto the suppliers and keeping the majority for himself. 
Miss R complained to HSBC as she says they should have checked the payments and told 
her they were going to a personal account rather than to the company she thought she was 
paying. However, HSBC declined to refund the payments as Miss R had authorised them.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint. She didnt think any of the transactions 
would have appeared particularly unusual in light of the spending history of both accounts. 
But even if they ought to have been regarded as suspicious, she didnt think any intervention 
by HSBC would have ultimately prevented the scam. Miss R disagreed, so the matter has 
been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points, I have 
read and considered everything thats been provided. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for the reasons set out below:
It isnt in dispute that Miss R authorised the disputed payments she made to Js account 
from her HSBC accounts. The payments were requested by her using her legitimate 
security credentials provided by HSBC, and the starting position is that banks ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be 
made as instructed.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has 
a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams, so far as reasonably 
possible. If in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
Its not exactly clear that Miss R has been scammed here. I appreciate she has reported 
the matter to the police, who she says are pressing charges. But I note that J did pass 
some of her money on to the relevant suppliers as agreed, and that work was being 
carried out on her property up to a certain point. So, she did receive part of the services 
she had contracted for. I also note she is taking civil action against J, meaning this ought 
reasonably to be viewed as a civil dispute rather than a scam (and may therefore create 
a risk of double recovery if HSBC were to also be held liable for her loss). However, even 
if I were to accept that Miss R has been the victim of a scam here, I still dont think HSBC 
would be liable to refund the money. Ill explain why.
I accept its arguable that HSBC should have intervened and questioned Miss R about 
the payments she was making from both of her accounts in light of the size and 
frequency of the transactions. However, even if HSBC had intervened and asked further 
probing questions about the nature of the payments Miss R was making, Im not 
persuaded it would have likely stopped her from proceeding or have ultimately prevented 
her loss. I say this because she had an agreement with a legitimate construction 
company, and work was being carried out on her property by that company, so she 
would not have known that anything untoward was unfolding if HSBC had questioned her 
about the payments.
Miss R says that HSBC ought to have alerted her to the fact that she was paying the 
directors personal account rather than his business account. But the Confirmation of 
Payee system Miss R has referenced was not in place at the time she made the 
payments, so I would not have expected HSBC to have been able to alert her to this fact 
at the time. Even if the bank was able to tell Miss R she was paying J rather than his 
company, Im not persuaded it would have stopped her from making the payments. It 
wouldnt have appeared particularly unusual that she was paying the director, as she had 
an agreement with him and his company for the completion of works. I can see from the 
breakdown provided that some of the money Miss R paid was passed on to the relevant 
suppliers to settle their invoices. So, if HSBC had intervened and said she was paying 
the director, there is no way she would have known at that time that he was 
misappropriating the funds she was paying him.
Therefore, even if I were to agree that Miss R had been scammed and that HSBC ought 
to have intervened, I dont think HSBC could fairly and reasonably be held liable for her 
loss in any event, as Im not persuaded any intervention would have likely prevented her 
from making the payments. Works were being carried out on her property, and there 
would have been nothing significant that would have alerted either HSBC or Miss R to 
the fact that she was potentially being scammed. Therefore, I dont think HSBCs failure 
to intervene could reasonably be considered as the proximate cause of Miss Rs loss in 
these circumstances, as it seems likely she would have proceeded to make the 
payments irrespective of any intervention by the bank.
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover the funds after 
Miss R reported the alleged fraud to the bank. However, I can see that HSBC sought to 
recover the money, but no funds remained in the beneficiary account by the time Miss R 
had reported the matter. HSBC are also under no obligation to consider refunding the 
money to Miss R under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the 
Code was not in force at the time she made any of the disputed payments.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Miss R, but I wont be asking HSBC 
to take any further action. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman