DRN-1647341
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (T/A Halifax) lost a cheque that was deposited into 
his account. Hes also unhappy with how his concerns about his missing cheque were 
handled.
What happened
On 13 February 2019 Mr Ms partner attended a Halifax branch on his behalf to pay in a 
cheque for £270. They attempted to pay this in using the Immediate Deposit Machine (IDM) 
but this wasnt working that day. So a staff member assisted Mr Ms partner in depositing the 
cheque instead.
Mr Ms partner handed over the cheque together with Mr Ms bank card and the cheque was 
retained by the staff member. Mr Ms partner was given a receipt confirming the cheque 
deposit and left with an expectation that the cheque would credit Mr Ms account.
By 15 February 2019 the cheque still hadn't credited Mr Ms account so he contacted Halifax 
to query why it hadnt cleared. He told Halifax that, as a result of the cheque not crediting his 
account, he was unable to order a part for his van that was needed by his mechanic. He said 
even though he hadnt been able to order the part he still had to pay the mechanic for work 
hed had booked. He also said he lost work due to being unable to use his van to travel to 
customers and this affected his reputation as a reliable tradesperson. 
When Halifax investigated what happened here it couldnt find any evidence to show that Mr 
Ms cheque had been deposited in branch. So it didnt uphold his complaint. But it said if he 
provided his cheque deposit receipt it would reconsider its position.
Mr M had a number of discussions on the telephone with Halifax about the whereabouts of 
his missing cheque. During some of those discussions he expressed concerns about his 
ability to understand the English spoken by a customer service manager. Halifax felt Mr M 
had made inappropriate remarks about the staff member in question. But he didnt agree.
On 13 March 2019 Mr M attended a Halifax branch to provide a copy of his receipt. After this 
was seen, Halifax accepted it must have lost Mr Ms missing cheque and upheld his 
complaint. To recognise its error it credited his account with £125 for the distress and 
inconvenience he had been caused and £18 for the travel costs he had incurred in attending 
his branch to produce the receipt.
But Mr M wasnt happy with how Halifax proposed to resolve his complaint. So he referred it 
to our service. Our investigator assessed the evidence provided by Mr M and Halifax. But, 
they didnt think Halifax needed to do anything more here. They thought the £143 goodwill 
payment it had already paid to resolve this complaint was appropriate and fair. But Mr M 
disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr M has responded to the investigator in detail and has raised a number of points 
in relation to their assessment. Ive read and considered everything Mr M has said in 
response to the investigator. I haven't responded to all the points he's raised and have 
focused on what I feel are the key issues of his complaint. I hope Mr M won't take that as a 
discourtesy, it simply reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Mr M feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats clear from what hes said to 
both us and Halifax. Im sorry to hear about the difficulties he experienced with this missing 
cheque. And I can appreciate that he was caused distress and inconvenience by what 
happened. 
My role is to assess whether I think Halifax made a mistake, or treated Mr M unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. 
Halifax has already accepted responsibility for losing Mr Ms cheque. So, the issue here is 
whether it acted fairly and reasonably in offering to put things right. And, having thought 
carefully about everything he and Halifax have said, Im afraid to say that I think the offer 
Halifax has already made to resolve this complaint is fair and reasonable. I appreciate Mr M 
will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Ive thought about the length of time it took for this issue to be resolved. I can see Mr M 
raised a complaint with Halifax by telephone on 15 February 2019. Following this telephone 
call, Halifax began to investigate the fate of Mr Ms cheque. I think this shows it acted 
promptly in trying to trace Mr Ms missing cheque. 
Halifax couldnt see anything on its clearing or image system to confirm that the cheque had 
been deposited. So, it made enquiries with the branch directly to understand what had 
happened. And the branch checked all places where the cheque could have been stored. 
These enquiries are in line with what Id expect a bank to do in the event of a missing 
cheque.
As Halifax wasnt able to find any evidence to show that Mr Ms cheque had been deposited 
it didnt uphold his complaint. But it also made it clear to Mr M that if he provided the cheque 
deposit receipt his partner had been given in branch it would review its decision not to 
uphold his complaint. I think that approach was fair and reasonable.
Its clear that, given the absence of information about this cheque from the branch, the only 
way Halifax could review its decision not to uphold Mr Ms complaint about his missing 
cheque was for it to see the receipt issued on 13 February 2019. So I think its request that 
Mr M provide this document was reasonable. 
Halifax asked Mr M to provide this by post or in person at a branch. He wanted to send it by 
email. However, Halifax explained it couldnt accept information via email as this wasnt a 
secure method of contact. I appreciate why it would be more convenient or Mr M to email a 
copy of this receipt to Halifax. But I cant fairly criticise it for not accepting information by 
email when communicating in this way wouldnt be secure.  
On 13 March 2019 Mr M attended the branch with proof of the cheque deposit. This was the 
earliest time that Halifax could have seen the cheque deposit receipt. Halifax accepted this 
as evidence that the cheque had been deposited. So, it wrote to Mr M on 19 March 
confirming that his missing cheque must have been lost by the branch and upholding his 
complaint.  I realise that it must have been frustrating and inconvenient for the problem with Mr Ms 
cheque not to have been resolved sooner. But Im satisfied that Halifax undertook a full 
investigation once Mr M had made it aware that his cheque had not credited his account as 
expected. I also think that, once Mr M had provided the cheque deposit receipt to Halifax, it 
acted promptly and correctly in accepting responsibility. 
On accepting it had lost Mr Ms cheque, Halifax credited his account with £125 for the 
distress and inconvenience the loss of his cheque caused. In addition, it paid £18 towards 
travel expenses to cover Mr Ms attendance in branch for the purposes of producing the 
receipt it needed. 
I can see that Mr M disputes the amount of compensation Halifax paid to resolve his 
complaint. But that information is set out clearly in Halifaxs contact notes and records and 
also in the final response letter it sent Mr M. I havent seen any evidence from Mr M to show 
that the amounts Halifax quoted are incorrect.
Its clear Mr M doesnt think the compensation Halifax paid him adequately reflects his 
inconvenience and experience. But Im afraid I have to tell Mr M that I agree with our 
investigators view that £143 is a fair amount of compensation for the trouble and upset he 
suffered. I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that a higher award is warranted 
here.
Mr M says the delay in the cheque crediting his account meant he was unable to have his 
van repaired, which impacted on his earnings and reputation as a tradesperson. But I 
havent seen any evidence confirming those losses were as a direct result of his cheque not 
being crediting his account. 
I should add that, even if Mr Ms cheque hadnt been lost, the funds are unlikely to  have 
been available in his account until around 18 February 2019 because Halifaxs cheque 
clearing process requires four working days for a cheque to credit an account after its been 
deposited. Even if Mr Ms cheque had been paid in via the IDM it still wouldnt have credited 
his account any earlier.
So, if Mr Ms earnings were dependent on him ordering parts for his van, he should have 
either paid in his cheque earlier or, if this wasnt possible, waited until after the cheque had 
cleared before arranging a mechanic appointment and committing himself to work. I cannot 
fairly hold Halifax responsible for arrangements that Mr M may have made before his cheque 
could have cleared had it not been lost.
 I recognise that Mr M would have spent some time in trying to understand why his cheque 
hadnt credited his account and in trying to resolve matters with Halifax. But, on balance, I 
think what Halifax has offered by way of compensation makes up for that. Im satisfied its a 
reasonable amount, which is in line with our approach in similar scenarios.  
In order to resolve this problem Mr M had the option of either posting his receipt or taking it 
to a branch. I can understand why he wouldnt want to post it. So, he exercised his right to 
attend a branch. The branch he attended is a 35 mile round trip from his home address. So, 
he incurred expense in travelling there.
In order to resolve this complaint, I would have told Halifax to reimburse Mr M his travel 
costs, which its done by crediting his account with £18 to compensate him for the travel 
expenses he incurred. Im satisfied that is a reasonable sum and I, therefore, wont be 
ordering it to increase this amount.Finally Mr M has complained that Halifax accused him of making inappropriate and 
discriminatory comments about the customer service manager he spoke with on the 
telephone. I can appreciate how this would upset Mr M. But, as our investigator explained, 
our service wont make a finding on this issue as it falls outside our jurisdiction. So, I wont 
comment any further on this issue.
I realise Mr M will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve his dispute with Halifax informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr 
M any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman