DRN-2376074
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) wont reimburse her for a cash 
withdrawal that she says was stolen from her.
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs B withdrew £2,000 in cash from her Barclays account. Later that day 
Mrs B went to a shopping centre where she tried to use the cash to pay for something but 
realised it was gone.
She reported the matter to the police and to Barclays but the police were unable to establish 
what had happened to the money and closed the investigation.
Mrs B thinks the money was stolen from her and Barclays is partly responsible for this. She 
says that:
Staff gave her the cash in full view of the branch rather than in private
When she asked for an envelope to put the cash in, the envelope they provided was 
too small so the cash was clearly visible
CCTV in branch wasnt working, so the police were unable to investigate the theft 
and catch the person who took the money
A branch manager told the police Barclays would reimburse her but it later changed 
its mind
Mrs B made a complaint to Barclays raising these points, but it didnt accept it was liable for 
the loss so didnt reimburse her. She brought the complaint to our service to consider, but 
our investigator felt Barclays had met its obligations and wasnt to blame for the loss. As 
Mrs B didnt accept this the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although Im sorry to hear what happened to Mrs B, I havent found that 
Barclays is liable for the loss. In reaching this conclusion Ive taken the following into 
account: 
Barclays is required to follow the instructions its given by its account holders. So as 
a starting point it was required to give Mrs B the £2,000 cash she requested.
I havent seen anything that suggests Mrs B needed the money in cash, on that day 
for a specific purpose. I also havent seen any information that suggests she was 
being coerced into making the withdrawal. So I think Mrs B made the decision to 
withdraw a large amount of cash from her account rather than opt for other methods 
that mightve been more secure such as a transfer or making payment by card. And 
Im satisfied she ought reasonably to have known there was a risk in carrying this 
amount of cash around with her.
It seems that Mrs B went into the branch with the sole purpose of withdrawing this 
large amount of cash.  As such I think its reasonable to expect Mrs B to have made 
arrangements to carry this amount of cash in a way she was comfortable, for 
example an envelope or bag which she couldve asked the cashier to use. And, if she 
wasnt happy with the envelope offered to her by Barclays, she was able to return the 
funds to the account until she could arrange something herself that she was more 
comfortable with. There isnt a requirement for Barclays to provide envelopes to carry 
cash, and Mrs B decided to accept the envelope she was given, rather than make 
alternative arrangements.
There was no requirement for Barclays to arrange a cash withdrawal in private and 
nothing which suggests Mrs B asked for this to happen. And I think its reasonable to 
think Mrs B ought to have realised that other people in the branch might have been 
able to see, to some extent, that she was making the withdrawal. If she wasnt 
comfortable with this, Im satisfied she couldve stopped the withdrawal at any point 
or handed the cash back to be returned to her account.
In this particular case, I cant see that it would be fair to hold the bank responsible for 
what happened after Mrs B made the withdrawal. And although it isnt known exactly 
what happened to the money or when, on balance, I think its more likely it wouldve 
been taken after she left the branch. I say this because following the withdrawal, Mrs 
B made the decision to take the money with her to a busy public place where the 
envelope, which she says had a large amount of cash that was clearly visible inside, 
could be taken by anyone who had access to her or her belongings. 
Barclays isnt required to record CCTV footage of its branches at all times. Its 
unfortunate the footage wasnt available to aid the police with its investigation. But 
theres no guarantee this footage wouldve shown what happened to the cash or that 
even if it did this wouldve allowed the police to catch the person responsible. 
Mrs B has provided evidence that a police officer involved in investigating her case 
recalled a branch manager telling them Barclays would reimburse her for the loss. 
Whilst I accept this is their recollection of events, theres no evidence on Barclays 
records to suggest this was agreed. And if it was agreed by the branch manager, its 
not clear why they wouldnt have noted it. I also think, particularly given the amount 
of money involved, that it would be unusual for a bank to make a decision about this 
kind of scenario without a full investigation which is what happened later in this case. 
So whilst I accept this may be what the police officer understood of the conversation, 
or what they remember of it, on balance and based on all the evidence Ive seen, Im 
not persuaded this was likely agreed. But Id also add that even if this is something 
the branch manager had agreed, Barclays was still entitled to carry out a full 
investigation before it reached a decision. So even if I did think that on balance a 
branch manager likely said this at some stage, it doesnt follow that I would require it 
to reimburse the money now. As Ive explained, I dont think Barclays is liable for this 
loss.
Im sorry to hear this has happened to Mrs B, its an unfortunate situation. But Im satisfied 
Barclays fulfilled its obligations to her as I would expect and I dont think its liable for the loss 
of the cash she withdrew from her account.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman