DRN-3412302
The complaint
Mr A complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) wont release his money after 
reinvesting it without his permission. 
What happened
Mr A opened a five-year fixed term deposit account with Clydesdale in August 2016. 
Clydesdale wrote to Mr A in June 2021 to let him know that the account would mature at the 
beginning of August 2021. It outlined his options for withdrawing or re-investing the money. 
When Clydesdale didnt hear from Mr A by the date the account matured, it rolled the funds 
from the account over into another five-year fixed term deposit account. 
Mr A contacted Clydesdale as he said he hadnt wanted the money to roll over into another 
fixed term deposit account. He asked to withdraw the money and close the account. 
Clydesdale said it wasnt possible to remove the money until the end of the five-year term. 
Mr A complained to Clydesdale. It responded and said it wrote to Mr A twice but didnt 
receive instructions from him about what to do once the funds matured. It said the terms of 
the account, which were provided to Mr A when the account was opened, meant the funds 
would be put into another fixed term account if he didnt provide further instructions. 
Clydesdale said the request to close the new account early was declined because of the 
conditions of the account, which it had to adhere to.  
Mr A complained to this service. He said it wasnt explained to him when he first invested the 
money that it might be invested for a further five years once it matured. He said he didnt 
think it was enough for Clydesdale to contact him by letter alone, that they should have 
called him and that letters should have been sent by registered post.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and, as Mr A didnt agree with what our 
investigator said, this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My understanding is that Mr As complaint is twofold. He doesnt think Clydesdale should 
have reinvested his money into a second term deposit account in 2021 without his express 
permission. Mr A also thinks Clydesdale has acted unfairly in telling him that he cant 
withdraw his money from the account now.  
Mr A said when he first opened the account, he didnt know that the money in the account 
would be rolled over into a new account. For its part, Clydesdale said it would have sent the 
terms and conditions to Mr A at the time he opened the account. 
Ive seen the terms of the account and, in relation to what happens to the funds on maturity, 
these say: 
We will contact you approximately 5 weeks before the Maturity Date to discuss options and 
your instructions for dealing with the maturity accountif we do not receive your instructions 
at least 5 Business Days before the Maturity Date, the Maturity Amount will be paid into 
another Term Deposit Account in your name for a term equal in length to the Fixed Term at 
the interest rate applicable to such term deposit on the Maturity date.  
I can see that Clydesdale wrote to Mr A twice in the months prior to the account maturing to 
let him know what his options were at the end of the five year term, and what action he 
would need to take if he wanted to withdraw his money. 
The first of these letters was sent to Mr A at the end of June 2021. Ive seen a copy of the 
letter and Im satisfied that Mr A was reminded when the account would mature, and his 
choices about what to do when this happened were clearly laid out. The letter said that if 
Mr A left his money where it was, then it would be reinvested into another fixed term deposit 
for the same length of time. The letter provided a deadline for Mr As response and outlined 
the different ways he could respond.
A Maturity Options form was included with the letter, and this said if Mr A didnt respond at 
least five days before maturity, then it would reinvest his money in another term deposit for 
the same term. The second letter sent to Mr A by Clydesdale said Mr A didnt need to do 
anything if he decided to reinvest in another term deposit, for the same length of time. 
So Im satisfied that in the months before the account matured, Mr A was contacted by 
Clydesdale, in line with the terms of the policy, and was given clear instructions about what 
he needed to do to access his money when the account matured, and also what would 
happen if he didnt give Clydesdale specific instructions about what to do with his money. As 
Clydesdale didnt receive instructions from Mr A, Im satisfied it acted fairly and in line with 
the terms of the account when it rolled the money over into another term deposit account for 
a further five years. 
I know that Mr A said the letters sent in 2021 should have been sent by registered post, as 
he isnt sure whether he received them before the account matured. But the fact is Mr A did 
receive them, and Clydesdale cant be held responsible for any delays that might have 
occurred after the letters were posted. The delivery of post is outside its control. Im satisfied, 
based on Clydesdales records, that they were sent when they shouldve been.
I understand that Mr A would like to withdraw the money from the account now. But the 
terms of the account are clear in that respect. These say: 
Please note withdrawals or early closure of the term deposit are not permitted under any 
circumstances during the fixed term, except in the event of the death of the account holder 
(or one of them if joint account). 
I can certainly appreciate why Mr A finds it frustrating that he cant withdraw the money now, 
as he indicated he hadnt intended to invest it for more than five years. But while I 
sympathise with Mr A, I dont think it would be fair to ask Clydesdale to act outside the terms 
of the account and so I am not asking it to take any further action here. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman