DRN-3693755
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC couldnt find his account after he presented them 
with an old account passbook.
What happened
Mr M found an old account passbook which had last been updated in 1990 and which 
showed a balance held in the account. Mr M presented the passbook to Lloyds, but after a 
lengthy search they explained to Mr M that they couldnt locate the account and so wouldnt 
allow Mr M to withdraw the money from the account as he would like. Mr M wasnt happy 
about this, so he raised a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Mr Ms complaint. They confirmed they hadnt been able to locate the 
account, which they felt meant the account must have been closed for many years. 
However, Lloyds accepted theyd taken longer than they should have to confirm to Mr M that 
they couldnt locate the account, and so they apologised to Mr M for this and made a 
payment of £50 to him as compensation for any trouble and upset he may have incurred. Mr 
M wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they didnt feel that Lloyds had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr M might feel that his finding an old passbook with a balance present 
on the account must mean that the account should still exist and still hold a balance  and 
that he should be able to withdraw that balance. However, I dont necessarily agree.
One reason I say this is down to the passing of time. Over thirty years have gone by since 
the passbook was last maintained. And while it may have been the case that the only way to 
withdraw funds from the account used to include that a record of any withdrawal would be 
maintained in the passbook, I dont feel that the possibility can be discounted that the nature 
of how that account was maintained could have changed in the intervening years to date.
Indeed, given the significant changes to the financial sector that have taken place since 
1990, including mass digitisation, it seems to me that at some point the maintenance of 
accounts of this type may have been changed, such that it was no longer necessary for the a 
passbook to be physically updated to make withdrawals or to close the account.
Given the decades that have passed since the time of the passbook, if the account had, for 
example, been closed some time ago  more than ten years ago, for instance  then it 
generally wouldnt be expected, because of data retention requirements, that Lloyds would 
continue to retain any record of the transactions surrounding that account closure today.
What would be expected would be that Lloyds would have done everything they could to 
search for this account. And, having reviewed the information Lloyds have presented to this 
service, Im satisfied that Lloyds have done this, but havent been able to find the account. 
Lloyds have confirmed that they were able to locate an old profile for Mr M, but no open 
accounts. And Lloyds have suggested that this means its likely that the account in question 
was closed some time in the past at a time they no longer retain records for. 
In consideration of all the above, Lloyds position here seems reasonable to me. And I dont 
feel that it would be fair or reasonable for me to consider instructing Lloyds to pay Mr W a 
balance for an account that Lloyds have no record of and for which Im satisfied the strong 
possibility exists was closed many years ago.
Ultimately, I simply feel that theres too much that potentially might have occurred in the 
years since 1990  which Lloyds would no longer be reasonably expected to maintain a 
record of  to be able to state fairly that Lloyds should honour Mr Ms request to withdraw
a balance against this account as he would like.
Finally, Lloyds have paid Mr M £50 compensation for not confirming to Mr M that they 
couldnt locate the account in a reasonable time. This amount seems fair to me, and I dont 
feel that Lloyds should be asked to make any further payment to Mr M in this regard.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr M was wanting, but it follows from all the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action. I hope that 
Mr M will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman