DRN-3348033
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs F is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around March 2015, Mrs F was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs F decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In March 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mrs Fs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mrs F to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would not cost them anything would and provide them with a substantial 
income over the lifespan of the PV system which is general 25 years.
The monthly loan instalments would be covered by the savings made on energy bills 
and the FIT payments. 
The system would pay for itself within 8 years. 
And that pressurized sales tactics which were used such as:
Remaining at Mrs Fs property for over 2 hours.
Using sales jargon and showing our client a plethora of facts, figures, and charts, 
which did not make any sense to her.
Not disclosing the price of the system until the end of the sales presentation even 
when pressed.
Informing Mrs F that if she did not purchase the PV System immediately she would 
not receive the higher FIT payments as they will reduce making time of the essence.
Shawbrook didnt respond to the complaint. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs F and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
It had consulted an expert on a similar case and was advised that the quotation 
provided had a number of inconsistencies and inaccuracies that made the overall 
predictions given to Mrs F inaccurate. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs F paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs F could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs F and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by the CMC. These include the solar 
quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation Ive considered this in detail and whether they 
support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs Fs recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement, examples of which Ive seen previously, would set out the amount 
being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and 
the contractual monthly repayments. I have no reason to think Mrs F wouldnt have seen 
this, given shed have had to sign it to get the loan and for the installation to go ahead. 
FIT payments
Mrs F have alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or 
self-funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mrs F has said.The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs F could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs F could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £582.62.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs F could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £282.01 and the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £864.62. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs F entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 120 monthly payments of £105.16. For each year of the 10-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £105.16, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs F could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan 
repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that she was told that the monthly loan repayments 
would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs F that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start, 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mrs F was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 12 the overall benefits that Mrs F could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs F that the system would pay for itself by 
year 12, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently 
suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs F. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 3,683 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mrs Fs FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 3,462 kWh per year in the first two years and  3,355 per year by February 2021. 
This is slightly less than estimated by P at the point of sale but within a reasonable margin of 
error. So, Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2013 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why she hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2004 to 2013. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs F 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs F entered into the 
contract.
Pressurised sales tactics 
The CMC has made allegations about pressurised sales tactics as follows:
P was at Mrs Fs property for over 2 hours.
P used sales jargon and showed Mrs F a plethora of facts, figures, and charts, which 
did not make any sense to her.
P didnt disclose the price of the system until the end of the sales presentation even 
when pressed.
P informed Mrs F that if she did not purchase the PV System immediately she would 
not receive the higher FIT payments as they will reduce making time of the essence.
For the sale of a solar panel system such as this, a meeting of around two hours appears to 
be about how long it takes. Such a meeting tends to include a survey of the property and a 
discussion of the system, its cost, and its benefits. So, I dont think this in itself is evidence of 
pressurised sales tactics. A longer meeting may actually be indicative of Mrs F asking 
questions to ensure she understood what she was agreeing to.
The quotation, which likely formed the basis of the discussion, did include facts, figures, and 
charts. However, given the length of the meeting, Im satisfied that Mrs F wouldve had the 
opportunity to discuss this in depth and ask questions. I understand she was provided with a 
copy of the quotation after the meeting, so she could look back over it and digest it in her 
own time. She couldve done additional research or got a second opinion given it was about 
two weeks between the meeting and the solar panels being installed. 
The quotation clearly showed the price of the system and the monthly cost of the loan. The 
loan agreement itself will have shown the total cost of the loan including fees and interest. I 
cant say when during the meeting the price was discussed, but it seems this was clearly 
given to Mrs F and she agreed to it. 
The meeting took place in March and the system wasnt installed until April, by which time 
the FIT pricing had changed (as of 1 April). So, even if Mrs F was told this, it doesnt appear 
to have affected her decision. The system was not installed quickly enough to avoid the 
imminent reduction in FIT pricing. 
As such, I am not persuaded that these allegations provide sufficient reason for me to 
uphold this complaint. The CMCs additional comments
The CMC said it had consulted an expert on a similar case and was advised that the 
quotation provided had a number of inconsistencies and inaccuracies that made the overall 
predictions given to Mrs F inaccurate. 
I note that the CMC doesnt appear to have obtained an expert opinion on Mrs Fs quotation. 
Nor has it provided any further detail about what the expert said was inconsistent or 
inaccurate or how this made the overall predictions inaccurate. So, there is no compelling 
evidence for me to consider here in respect of an expert opinion on. As such these 
comments have not affected my decision on Mrs Fs complaint. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs F to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman