DRN-3823297
The complaint
Mr Ns complaint about Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB) relates to the advice he 
received regarding porting his mortgage to a new property he wished to purchase whilst also 
avoiding having to pay an Early Repayment Charge (ERC). He says he was advised that this 
was possible but ultimately the ERC was applied. He wishes MAB to refund that to him.
What happened
In March 2021 Mr N approached South West Mortgage Solutions Ltd, the appointed 
representatives of MAB, and asked them to arrange a new mortgage for him as he was 
intending to sell his existing property and move to another (property A). At that time, he was 
on a five-year fixed rate mortgage from Halifax, with two years remaining. Attached to it was 
an ERC, which if triggered amounted to £6,773. Mr N was acutely aware of the ERC and 
wished to avoid paying it if possible.
MAB obtained a new mortgage from Halifax for Mr N, and one which didnt trigger the ERC 
on his existing mortgage. But, Mr Ns circumstances changed as he found out he couldnt 
complete his sale and purchase simultaneously. He notified MAB that he would be moving 
into rented accommodation until the purchase of his new property was ready and asked if 
this could create a problem. MAB told him that as long as he completed the purchase of his 
new property within 3 months of the sale of his existing property, the ERC would be 
refunded.
But, Mr Ns circumstances changed again as he found a different property to purchase 
(property B).  He instructed MAB to obtain a fresh mortgage from Halifax for property B 
which they did. As matters transpired, Mr N didnt need to move into his rented 
accommodation. When Mr N completed his new purchase, he found he had been charged 
the ERC which is not what he expected. He asked Halifax to refund the ERC, but they 
refused stating the mortgage product he obtained did not provide for that.
MAB agreed that Mr Ns initial instructions to them had been to port his existing mortgage, 
but that his plans had changed, and he had advised them that he was going to move into 
rented accommodation upon the sale of his property. As Mr N didnt move into rented 
accommodation MAB say they werent in a position to change their advice to Halifax, and in 
any event had Mr N been unhappy with the position he could have contacted the MAB who 
could then have altered their advice to Halifax. As such they rejected his complaint.
Mr N was unhappy with MABs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that MAB had incorrectly 
processed Mr Ns second mortgage application it being clear that he was adamant he 
wanted to avoid paying the ERC. Because of that he thought it fair and reasonable to ask 
MAB to refund Mr N the ERC less that sum which reflected the benefit he had obtained from 
being on a new lower rate mortgage.
Mr N agreed but MAB didnt, and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint and both parties have responded to it. Mr N 
accepts my decision, and MAB do not. In their response they repeated the points previously 
made and provided no new evidence or information which would cause me to change my 
earlier decision. As such I do not, and my final decision is thus. 
MAB accepts that it advised Mr N and arranged a mortgage for him which allowed him to 
port his then existing mortgage to his proposed new property without incurring the ERC. It 
accepts that the advisors notes record that the overriding element of importance to him was 
porting his existing mortgage over. 
From the evidence provided, I have seen an email from MABs advisor confirming that the 
ERC would be refunded if Mr N completed on his purchase within three months of his sale. 
That was followed two days later by Mr N emailing the advisor to say his plans had changed 
and he had found a new house. One of the reasons his plans had changed was because he 
was concerned that he might to pay the ERC if he proceeded as originally planned due to 
potentially not being able to meet the deadline date for the purchase.
In that email he asked the advisor to make another application with Halifax for a different 
property he had found. It is implicit, given the foregoing, that he wanted to avoid paying the 
ERC. When Mr N completed the new purchase, his existing mortgage was not ported over, 
and he incurred the ERC.
A note on Halifaxs system dated 18 June records that it was MABs advisor who told Halifax 
that Mr Ns existing mortgage was not to be ported over.
The underlying fundamental point in this complaint is that Mr N made it abundantly clear that 
he did not want to incur the ERC on his existing mortgage. MABs advisor arranged a 
mortgage for him that triggered that ERC. I accept that it was most likely a mistake but 
nevertheless this was not what Mr N asked for when he engaged MAB to act on his behalf. 
As such I do find that the loss he has incurred is directly attributable to MABs failure to 
properly advise and arrange a suitable mortgage for Mr N in line with his instructions. It is 
only fair and reasonable that MAB therefore compensates Mr N by putting him back in the 
position he would otherwise have been.
I do not accept the argument that Mr N should have spotted MABs error and gone back to 
them. MAB are the experts and were paid to carry out Mr Ns instructions which they did not.
As to the level of compensation when this service considers what an appropriate level of 
compensation might be, we consider a variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, 
distress and inconvenience that may have been caused. We categorise awards and 
examples of these can be found on our website. 
What is important to remember is that there is no set figure, since the facts of each case are 
different, and ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all the circumstances of the 
case and coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the effect upon the 
complainant of any particular service failures.The mortgage offer of April 2022 shows that interest rate on the relevant part of the 
mortgage of £229,164, would have been 1.98%. That mortgage allowed Mr N to port over 
his existing mortgage whereas the one he ended up with didnt. That mortgage however has 
a rate of 1.75%, and he has therefore a 0.23% better rate which provides him with a benefit 
he would not have had. That rate however was to be fixed only until 31 March 2024 being 
broadly 30 months after his now current mortgage commenced. 
Putting things right
In order to place Mr N back in the position he would have been but for MABs error I agree 
with out investigator that MAB should refund Mr N the ERC of £6,773 less that sum which 
equates to the benefit Mr N has had through the 0.23% lower interest rate over those 30 
months.
However, Mr N has also faced the trouble and upset caused by this error, which I note he 
has described sustaining psychological damage to the point of causing him insomnia. Whilst 
he has framed this as being clinically diagnosed I have seen no evidence of that, but I do 
accept that it will in all probability have naturally caused him some worry, concern, and 
sleepless nights.
In my view, any award for the trouble and upset caused here also needs to be balanced and 
measured against the ups and downs of life which we all face when dealing with other 
people, businesses and organisations, and recognising that at times it can be inconvenient. 
So, having weighed up all the evidence, I think MAB should also compensate Mr N £200 to 
reflect the impact of its the mistake on Mr N.
My final decision
Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited shall pay Mr N £6,773 representing the ERC, less that sum 
which equates to the benefit Mr N has had through the 0.23% lower interest rate over 30 
months. In addition, it shall pay Mr N £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to 
him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman