DRN-3455097
The complaint
Mr C complains about Ikano Bank AB (publ)s response to his claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act), relating to the purchase of an air source heat pump 
(ASHP) system. 
What happened
In December 2017, Mr C agreed to purchase an ASHP system from a supplier (which Ill call 
H), including replacement radiators, to provide heat to his home. This replaced a gas 
central heating system. Mr C kept his gas boiler, which still provides hot water. 
In February 2018, Mr C contacted H to say that the controls seem too complicated, and 
things are still running when the system is supposed to be off and to ask for help. He was 
concerned that the system appeared to remain on and using electricity even when he 
thought hed turned it off. Over the following year or so, Mr C continued to email or write to H 
with concerns predominantly about an increase in his electricity bills. 
In July 2018 the manufacturer of the ASHP visited the property at Mr Cs request and 
provided a report. The report concluded that the system was set up and was performing 
correctly. 
In 2019, after H ceased trading, Mr C contacted Ikano to make a claim, saying the ASHP 
was misrepresented to him because it is unable to provide sufficient heat or the projected 
financial savings. Mr C provided some hand-written notes which he says were provided to 
him during the sales meeting. This showed:
Per month
oOut £143pcm finance
oIn £116.66 RHI government payments
oIn £33.33 gas savings
oIn £27 boiler cover
oTotal £33.99 better off per month
RHI is Renewable Heat Incentive  a quarterly payment made to Mr C for using the ASHP, 
which is payable for seven years. Mr C says he was told to cancel his boiler cover, which 
cost £27 per month.
In November 2019, Ikano provided a final response to Mr Cs complaint. It said that it would 
not uphold the complaint, because the ASHP was not faulty and there was insufficient 
evidence of a misrepresentation on the part of H. Ikano said that an industry body had 
validated Hs calculations, which included how much it would cost to run the heat pump. 
Mr C was not happy with this response and contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr C could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have claimed 
against H, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in 
the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr C and 
H, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by H as an agent of Ikano.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Timings and documents
On 23 November 2017, Mr C signed an order form indicating that he wanted to buy the 
ASHP. The order form showed that the system would cost £12,000 and that Mr C was at that 
time spending £520 per year heating his home. The order form confirmed that an Energy 
Performance Certificate (EPC) and technical survey would need to be done to finalise the 
design of the system and determine how many radiators needed replacing. 
The EPC was carried out and is dated 3 December 2017. This was done by an independent 
assessor (by which I mean he was not employed by H), so any issues with the EPC would 
not be the responsibility of H. 
Mr C implies that there was an error on the EPC, since the assessor assumed that the flat 
roof on the living room was insulated, whereas Mr C says it is not. This may have affected 
Hs calculations and the design of the heat pump system. I can see the heat loss 
calculations match the heat requirement shown in the EPC, and for the living room the heat 
loss was much higher than for the rest of the house. But, even if there was an error on the 
EPC, Ikano would not have any liability for any issues this may have caused since the EPC 
was not carried out by H, but by another company or sole trader. 
H carried out calculations to design the ASHP based on the EPC heat demand of the 
property. I see no issues with these calculations. They were validated by an industry body of 
which H was a member. And Mr C later obtained a report from the manufacturer of the 
ASHP that confirmed the system installed is in line with the design that H prepared, and it is 
working properly. 
There is a quote dated 4 December 2017 which confirmed the details of the ASHP to be 
installed and that 11 radiators would be replaced. It also clearly provided estimates of Mr Cs existing heating spend (£520), the running cost of the ASHP (£801) and the annual RHI 
payments he would receive (£1,392). 
What Mr C was told
I dont know for certain what Mr C was told at the time of sale. So, I have taken into account 
what Mr C recalls, the timeline of events and the documents from the time of sale to decide 
what is most likely to have happened. 
Mr C has not provided a copy of the above quote to us, although he did provide a copy of the 
order form. He has said the only thing he was told was that he would save money as per the 
handwritten note. I think it is unlikely that these were the only documents he was given or 
shown at the time of sale.
The handwritten note is not signed. I dont know who wrote it or when it was written. It may 
reflect some of the discussion that took place with Mr C, although the gas saving figure does 
not match what is shown on documents from the time of sale, such as the order form. Which 
I think makes it less reliable as evidence of what was said, given that Hs documents from 
the time show other more accurate figures. Overall, I think the handwritten note is unlikely to 
reflect all that was discussed with Mr C or all the information he was given. 
I think the quote would have been provided to Mr C before he agreed for the installation to 
go ahead. Otherwise, he would not have known what work was to be done at his property. 
And I think he wouldve wanted that information before he allowed the work to start  
especially bearing in mind how many radiators needed replacing, which meant that 
disruptive work would be happening in almost every room of his house. 
I also think it is unlikely that the running costs of the ASHP would not have been discussed 
with Mr C. I think its likely that he knew the ASHP was powered by electricity, and this would 
not be free  otherwise this is likely to have formed part of his initial concerns when 
contacting H. When he did contact H, Mr C seemed to want help with the controls of the 
ASHP and a greater understanding of how to best use it, before later becoming concerned 
with its running costs. Overall, I think Mr C wouldve been told that the ASHP would cost 
about £800 per year to run before he agreed to the installation. This was based on the actual 
electricity unit rate he was paying at the time and Hs calculation of how much electricity 
would be required to generate the necessary heat required by his home. 
I also think that Mr C wouldve been aware of how much he was paying for the ASHP. The 
basic price was shown on the order form and the quote. The loan agreement wouldve also 
shown this along with his monthly repayments, the loan term, and the total amount payable. 
So, while not all shown on the same document, I think Mr C was likely given sufficient 
information to allow him to compare the cost (purchase price, loan repayments and running 
costs) and the benefits (RHI payments, lower gas bill) of having the system. As such I think it 
is unlikely that H represented the ASHP by saying it would save Mr C money overall  
because its running costs (£801) were higher than the overall cost of gas (£520) that Mr C 
was previously using for heating, and he was also paying for it using a loan over ten years.
Mr C is unhappy with how the ASHP heats his home and how much it costs to run. But I 
have not found that there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of H. 
This means I cant tell Ikano to do anything to resolve the situation. I appreciate that Mr C 
will be very disappointed with my decision. 
However, the manufacturers report did indicate that the flow rate of the ASHP was below 
the recommended level and that increasing this would allow it to work more efficiently. Ikano 
has indicated that it is willing to pay the cost of doing this if Mr C provides it with a quote for 
the work. I would encourage him to do that as soon as possible, since that may help with the 
issues Mr C has highlighted. 
Our investigator also previously suggested to Mr C that moving off an Economy 7 electricity 
tariff may reduce the cost of running the system. This is because such tariffs tend to charge 
a higher unit rate at the times Mr C would want his heating to be on. I would strongly suggest 
that Mr C discusses this with his electricity supplier, which will be able to advise him if there 
is a more suitable tariff available to him.
If Mr C is certain that the living room roof is not insulated, then he may want to look into 
adding insulation to it. This would help retain the heat and reduce the cost of heating his 
home. 
Mr C may also want to seek advice from Citizens Advice about whether he can pursue a 
claim against the EPC surveyor. 
Finally, if Mr C is struggling with his energy bills, he should speak to his energy supplier and 
Citizens Advice about this, as there may be additional help available to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman