DRN-2527341
The complaint
Mr B complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt fairly settled his claim under his 
landlord insurance policy.
What happened
The parties are acutely aware of the detail surrounding this complaint. So, I havent set it out 
in full here again. But, in summary, Mr B made a claim for malicious damage to his rental 
property. He owns a construction company which he used to carry out the repairs to restore 
the property back to its pre-loss state. 
Mr B provided UKI with a list of the costs he incurred to do this, alongside photographs of the 
damage so that it could reimburse him by cash settling the claim. The costs came to around 
£80,000. 
UKI considered the information Mr B provided, alongside the findings of its senior property 
advisor who visited the property when it was in its damaged state. It concluded many of the 
costs Mr B presented to it were inflated and that hed failed to provide sufficient evidence 
such as a breakdown of the overall amount he was claiming for, or receipts/invoices which 
showed the individual costs incurred. 
It also said that some of the damage he was claiming for wasnt covered under the policy 
because it had likely occurred due to poor maintenance or wear and tear. So it declined any 
damage it deemed to be of this nature. 
For the damage it agreed to cover under the policy, UKI offered a cash settlement amount of 
£22,465.50, net of one £500 policy excess. VAT wasnt included in the settlement offer as 
UKI says Mr B failed to demonstrate he had incurred it. However, it said it would reconsider 
this if Mr B could substantiate this element. 
UKI said it would also review the areas of damage it hadnt agreed to cover under the claim, 
upon receipt of any further evidence to substantiate it was the result of an insurable peril. 
And although it seemed multiple perils had occurred in this claim, it agreed to charge one 
excess as it was unable to reasonably conclude when each instance of damage happened.
Mr B disagreed with UKIs decision. He said some of the damage UKI had agreed to cover, 
cost him more to rectify than what UKI were offering to pay for it. And he said all the damage 
he was claiming for was the result of an insured peril and should be covered.
Our investigator considered the matter and didnt uphold the complaint. She said there 
wasnt enough supporting evidence from Mr B to show all the damage he was claiming for 
should be covered under the policy. And she agreed with the extent of the works UKI had 
covered, and the amounts it said it would pay for this based on the information available to it. 
So she didnt recommend that UKI increase the cash settlement any further. 
Mr B instructed a building consultants company (Company A) to complete a cost 
assessment of the work hed carried out at the property. Company A visited the property 
after the works had been completed. It concluded the total estimate of the renovation works 
would likely have cost in the region of £49,000. Although Mr B maintained the estimation 
was well below his actual costs, he accepted Company As assessment, so asked that UKI 
pay the claim to that amount instead of his original claim amount. 
UKI considered this information but said it didnt change the outcome. It said the report 
highlighted that the costs Mr B had originally presented to it were inflated. And that in any 
case, the total figure reached in this report still included costs for repair works that werent 
covered under the policy. Our investigator agreed with UKI and Mr B asked that the case be 
looked at by an ombudsman. So its been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator 
and Ill explain why. Ill start by saying, Mr B is claiming for a substantial amount of damage. 
And UKI has provided a detailed breakdown of what it has and hasnt agreed to cover in 
relation to this. 
Our investigator went over this information in detail in her view to Mr B and has also sent him 
a copy of the cash settlement breakdown. So I wont repeat this information again in this 
decision as Im satisfied both parties are aware of the detail. But I have considered all of this 
information in full when making my decision.
What UKI has agreed to pay under the claim 
To help it reach what it says is a fair settlement in this claim, UKI says it considered all the 
information Mr B provided to it, alongside the findings of its senior property advisor who 
visited Mr Bs property when it was in its damaged state. 
Before making its final decision on the claim, it also appointed a loss adjuster to reconsider 
all the evidence in full again and to provide an opinion on a suitable cash settlement based 
on what should be covered in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. And on the 
back of this review, its provided a breakdown of what it will and will not cover and its 
reasons for this. But some of the costs UKI has agreed to cover under the claim, amount to 
less than what Mr B says he actually paid to have the work carried out. 
As evidence of the actual costs he incurred, Mr B provided an estimate of works for the 
repairs at the property  the word estimate suggesting an approximate calculation. And while 
this document provides an overall cost for each of these repairs, Ive not seen further 
supporting evidence showing a breakdown of the costs Mr B actually incurred after the work 
was completed or sufficient evidence of the cost of materials and labour  such as receipts 
or an itemised invoice. 
Given Mr B used his own company to carry out the works, I see no reason why he wouldnt 
have documentation of this nature that he would be able to share with UKI. Im aware he 
says he didnt keep receipts as he paid for some of the work in cash, but in line with the 
policy terms, and particularly given the sums involved, Id expect a policyholder to be able to 
evidence the costs theyve incurred when making a claim to recover their loss.In addition to this lack of supporting evidence, Mr Bs own cost assessment report seems to 
support UKIs argument that many of the costs hes presented seem to be higher than 
expected. 
With all of this in mind and in the specific circumstances of this case, I dont think its 
unreasonable that UKI has declined to consider paying these higher costs under the claim 
without reasonable evidence to substantiate them  which to date Mr B hasnt provided. So I 
wont be directing UKI to increase the amount its already offered for the damage it accepts is 
covered under the claim.
What UKI hasnt agreed to pay under the claim
Generally speaking, landlord insurance isnt designed to cover every issue that affects a 
property. Its there to cover loss or damage caused by a type of unforeseen event, often 
referred to as an insured peril and specified in the policy. 
Its not in dispute that Mr Bs property sustained damage and as a result, hes essentially 
carried out a full refurbishment to restore it back to what he says was its pre-loss state. But 
whether or not all of this damage was the result of an insured peril is what Mr B and UKI 
seem to disagree on. So Ive reviewed the evidence both parties have provided to support 
their arguments to help me decide what I think is fair in this case.
Ive seen photographs of the damage UKI provided and considered the expert opinions of its 
senior property advisor and loss adjuster, which seem to support the point that the damage 
not being covered by UKI was more likely caused by poor maintenance or wear and tear.
The nature and extent of the damage in this case, makes it somewhat difficult to distinguish 
exactly how and when it all occurred. But on balance, the photographs Ive seen do seem to 
show damage thats likely been caused by wear and tear or as a result of poor maintenance. 
And under the terms of the policy, damage of this nature isnt covered. 
Ive also considered the evidence Mr B has provided  such as photographs and a cost 
assessment report. But from what Ive seen, many of the photographs hes taken are unclear 
 or they dont sufficiently evidence all the damage being claimed for. While they show the 
property was in a poor state and damaged in many areas, they dont confirm how or why all 
of it happened  nor that these areas of damage happened as a one-off insured event and 
not over time.
I know Mr B feels strongly that the cost assessment report proves the claim should be 
covered in full, but I dont think this holds much weight in support of his argument either. I 
say this because its simply an analysis from a third-party company about how much the 
repairs Mr B carried out would likely cost. It gives no indication of the likely cause  which is 
what the parties disagree on. The report also includes costs for damage which UKI hasnt 
agreed to cover under the policy, but without any further evidence about why these should 
be paid.
From what Ive seen in this case, the evidence Mr B has provided doesnt persuade me that 
all the damage hes claiming for most likely happened as the result of an insured peril. UKI 
on the other hand has explained its reasons why it has and hasnt agreed to cover certain 
costs. On balance, I think its explanations are reasonable and seem to be supported by 
expert opinions. Im therefore satisfied UKI has made reasonable decisions based on the evidence available 
to it in this case. And based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded the damage UKI hasnt agreed 
to cover under the claim, is more likely the result of wear and tear or poor maintenance  
which isnt covered under the policy. 
It follows I wont be directing UKI to cover any costs it hasnt already agreed to under the 
claim. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be directing UKI to do anything 
further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman