DRN-2631283
The complaint
Mr D complains that Vanquis Bank Ltd acted irresponsibly by raising the limit on his credit 
card twice during a period when his debts were increasing. 
What happened
Mr D applied for a credit card from Vanquis in September 2017  they gave him an initial 
credit limit of £500. In May 2018 Vanquis notified him that his credit limit would be increased 
to £1,250. Mr D says that this limit became unaffordable and that he was regularly only able 
to pay the minimum payment. He says he had to use other credit cards, payday loans and 
guarantor loans to cover the costs. 
 
In September 2018 Vanquis notified him that his credit limit would be increased to £2,250. 
Mr D says he was unable to repay this amount of credit  and that he incurred numerous late 
payments and over limit fees as a result. Mr D says the fact that he was close to his credit 
limit when these increases were applied showed that he was struggling to reduce his debt. 
In February 2020 Mr D notified Vanquis that he was in financial difficulty and agreed a fixed 
payment arrangement. He complained that theyd acted irresponsibly by increasing his credit 
limit  but Vanquis said theyd done nothing wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think Vanquis had acted irresponsibly by giving Mr D a credit card or 
increasing his credit limit. He felt theyd carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
before each lending decision  and that those checks didnt show anything that suggested 
Mr D couldnt afford the repayments. Mr D asked for his case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance for lenders to follow  
these can be found in their Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Ive reviewed what this 
required Vanquis to do at the time of Mr Ds credit card application and the two increases to 
his credit limit. 
Before giving Mr D a credit card, Vanquis were required to carry out a creditworthiness 
assessment. This meant making reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves 
that hed be able to make repayments in a sustainable way. These checks werent just about 
how likely it was that theyd get their money back  they had to focus on whether the 
repayments would adversely affect Mr Ds financial situation.
There was no set list of checks that Vanquis had to complete, but they had to make sure the 
checks they completed were proportionate in the circumstances. There were a number of 
factors that might affect how extensive these checks needed to be, such as the type and 
amount of credit, the customers financial position, their credit history and other financial 
commitments. 
Vanquis have provided evidence showing they asked questions about Mr Ds income during 
the application, as well as obtaining information from a credit reference agency. In his 
application, he declared that he was in full-time employment with an annual income of 
£20,400, that he was living with his parents, and that the annual household income was 
£50,000. Credit reference agency data showed Mr D had nine active accounts with other 
financial businesses. It showed he had a total outstanding balance of £18,900, with no 
defaults or county court judgments (CCJs).
 
Im satisfied that these were reasonable and proportionate checks in the circumstances. And 
Ive seen nothing in the information revealed by these checks that shouldve given Vanquis 
cause for concern that approving £500 credit would adversely affect Mr Ds financial 
situation. Although his existing commitments were relatively large in comparison to his 
salary, there was no evidence that Mr D was having difficulty meeting those repayments. As 
he was living with his parents, Id consider it reasonable for Vanquis to assume his monthly 
living costs to be low. For these reasons I dont find them to have acted irresponsibly or 
unfairly by approving his credit card application.
CONC required Vanquis to carry out creditworthiness checks each time they considered 
increasing Mr Ds credit limit. Theyve provided evidence showing they reviewed how hed 
been managing his account, as well as looking at credit reference agency information. This 
is in line with best practice guidelines issued by the credit card industry on increasing credit 
limits responsibly, which say creditworthiness checks should include information from credit 
reference agencies and at least one other source. Ive looked carefully at what these checks 
revealed.
The evidence shows Vanquis first considered increasing Mr Ds credit limit in January 2018 
 but they didnt go ahead with this because he went over his limit. In April 2018 they 
reviewed things again. The evidence shows no more over-limit or late payment charges had 
been applied to the account. On average over the preceding three months, Mr D had used 
95% of his credit limit and was managing to make more than the minimum payment each 
month. Credit reference agency data showed the amount he owed to other financial 
businesses had crept up to £22,370, but there were no defaults or CCJs recorded against 
him. And the credit reference agency data showed no short-term loans having been taken 
out in the previous three months. 
In September 2018, Vanquis again reviewed Mr Ds account. The evidence shows that, with 
the exception of one over-limit charge in July, hed continued to make payments in 
accordance with the account terms. Over the preceding three months, on average, Mr D had 
used 96% of his credit limit and was still managing to pay more than the minimum payment 
each month. The credit reference agency data showed that the amount he owed to other 
financial businesses had dropped slightly to £19,558, and no defaults or CCJs had been 
recorded against him. Again, the credit reference agency data gave no indication of short-
term loans having been taken out in the previous three months.
Having carefully considered the information Vanquis already held about Mr D, the extra 
checks they carried out and the information this gave them about Mr Ds financial situation, I 
cant say they acted irresponsibly by increasing his credit limit to £1,250 and then £2,250. 
Ive seen evidence that Vanquis gave him at least one months notice of the proposed 
changes, so Mr D had the option not to go ahead with these increases if he had concerns 
about his ability to repay more credit. So, although I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed 
with this decision, I cant say that Vanquis have treated him unfairly.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman