DRN-1419915
 
The complaint
L, a limited company, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc decided to close its 
account and did not give a reason.
What happened
L received a letter from RBS in October 2019 saying that its bank account would be closed 
in 60 days and that it would need to make alternative arrangements. When L complained 
RBS said it would not be changing its decision and that it did not have to explain its reasons. 
L referred its complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that under the 
terms and conditions RBS could close an account if it gave at least 60 days notice as it had 
done here. The decision to close an account was a commercial one and RBS did not have 
explain it further to L. She thought it had acted reasonably.
L did not agree. One of its directors said that he had been a personal client of RBS since 
1985. There had been no consultation before the decision to close the account in this 
arbitrary way. He suspected why RBS had done this but wanted confirmation of the reason. 
He emphasised his own professional standing and considered that hed been financially 
excluded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that RBS has acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account and which 
L agreed to when it was opened. RBS didnt have to consult L or give any specific reason -
and the standing of its director doesnt make any difference to that. RBS had made a 
commercial decision to close the account and thats not something this service would 
generally interfere with.
L is a company and separate legal entity, so I dont think a consideration of financial 
exclusion is relevant. And RBS has demonstrated to this service that its followed the normal 
review process in coming to its decision. I dont have a reasonable basis to require it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman