DRN-2284706
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the way Crowdstacker Limited presented an investment 
opportunity on its crowdfunding platform. He feels information about the company he 
invested in was misleading and Crowdstacker failed to perform sufficient due diligence 
on this.
What happened
At the time of Mr Bs complaint, Crowdstacker provided a loan-based crowdfunding facility 
through a peer-to-peer platform in which investors could lend to borrowers in return for 
interest. Crowdstacker provided information regarding investment opportunities by way of 
investment brochures which investors could read before selecting which loans they wanted 
to invest in.
Mr B invested around £20,000 into a loan with Company A through Crowdstackers 
platform in August 2017. The investment brochure explained Company A would use 
the loan to purchase and refurbish freehold pubs. It explained the following:
Company A would use equity or subordinated debt to fund 30% of each 
acquisition, with the loaned money being used to fund the remaining 70% of the 
purchase price.
An independent valuation from a Royal Institution of Charted Surveyors 
(RICS) qualified surveyor would be obtained for each property prior to the 
purchase, confirming the value of the property at the time of purchase as well 
as the Expected Market Value (EMV) of the property.
The loan would also be used to fund 100% of the refurbishment costs of each 
pub, providing that the total amount of funding did not exceed 70% of the EMV 
of the pub after refurbishment.
The pubs would be operated by a separate company which Ill call 
Company B, which had some of the same key management as Company 
A.
Interest on the loan would be paid by way of cash flow generated from the 
operating pubs and lenders would be paid back their capital at the end of the 
three-year loan term by one or a combination of the following ways:
oThe accumulated profits of Company A
oSales proceeds of some or all of the property assets of Company A
oThe sale of the business of Company A
oRefinancing of the loans
The investment brochure also explained the following security would be in place for the 
loan:
Each freehold property purchased would be secured by way of a first ranking 
legal charge registered at the Land Registry.
The loan would be secured by way of a first ranking debenture over all the 
assets of Company A and the guarantor (one of Company As subsidiaries).
The guarantor, who was responsible for operating the non-tenanted pubs 
owned by Company A, would give a guarantee for Company As obligations 
under the loan.
Independent valuations would be carried out to ensure the Loan-to-Value 
(LTV) would not exceed 70% of the purchase price and EMV of the 
properties after refurbishment. Annual valuations on the portfolio of pubs 
would also be carried out and if the outstanding loan was greater than 70% of 
Company As assets then the shareholders could procure a further cash 
injection or sell property to realise any excess capital uplift.
In October 2018, Crowdstacker emailed Mr B to explain an additional review of 
Company A had been triggered as Company B had gone into administration. Following 
this, in March 2019, Crowdstacker wrote to Mr B to explain Company A had also been 
put into administration.
Mr B raised a complaint to Crowdstacker as he had a number of concerns regarding 
its due diligence on Company A. In summary, Mr B said:
Crowdstacker gave misleading information about the extent of the security for 
the loan to Company A.
There was a huge discrepancy between the valuations used to promote 
the loan to Company A and the valuations when it was put into 
administration. 
The valuations for the purchased pubs were inaccurate and the LTV of 
70% was exceeded.
Crowdstacker provided misleading information in its March 2018 update 
to investors as it said the LTV was under 68% but when Company A was 
put into administration the LTV became over 200%.
Crowdstacker didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In summary, it said:
Independent valuations of each of the pubs were conducted by a RICS 
qualified surveyor. 
There were many reasons for the changes in subsequent valuations of the 
pubs, but the key reasons were that the valuation uplifts from refurbishments 
were not achieved and that there were closed pubs which were not completed. 
The risk factors were highlighted to Mr B and the investment brochure 
was transparent and not misleading.
Mr B remained unhappy and so he brought his complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint, but she didnt uphold it. In summary, she 
said:
Mr B was given multiple risk warning that his capital was at risk and that there was no 
guarantee that the security would be sufficient cover any losses. 
She was satisfied Crowdstacker did take out the security detailed in the investment 
brochure.
The pub valuations were conducted by a RICS qualified surveyor and so it was fair 
for Crowdstacker to rely on these.
She also hadnt seen any evidence to suggest the LTV exceeded 70%.
She appreciated the pubs were subsequently valued at a much lower figure, but she 
didnt think Crowdstacker were at fault for this. She said property prices could 
fluctuate over time and there are a number of reasons why the valuations carried out at a later date may have been lower. Reasons could include the fact that the actual 
revenue of the four opened pubs was less than expected and the fact that the three 
remaining pubs were valued on a closed book basis.
Mr B had already invested before the March 2018 update to investors and so it 
didnt affect his decision to invest. Despite this, she looked into his concerns 
regarding the value of Company As assets and said that the information brochure 
didnt promise the LTV of Company As assets would not exceed 70%, rather it 
said it may take a number of corrective actions. 
Mr B disagreed with our investigators opinion. In short, he said:
The issue hes raised is not that there was some risk, it is that the asset-backed 
multi-layered security nature of the promotion downplayed the level and likelihood of 
the risks involved.
He accepted that he might not get his full investment back, but he wasnt prepared to 
accept a loss of between 55-100%. 
The promotion required a different set of risk warnings from the standard set use by 
Crowdstacker.
It seems that Company A was unable to secure funding through any other means, 
and crowdfunding was a last resort which he wasnt made aware of.  
The points he raised about misleading information in Crowdstacker's March 2018 
update were not in relation to his decision to lend, but about illustrating his view 
about Crowdstacker's attitude generally.
Crowdstacker subsequently strengthened its credit committee, which is a strong 
indicator of its acceptance of a failure in assessing whether Company A was a 
business it should have promoted.
The investigator considered Mr Bs additional points but didnt think they changed her 
opinion. In summary, she said:
She was satisfied the information brochure contained no inaccurate information or 
gave false assurances as to the future performance of Company.
As a lender there was an onus on Mr B to decide  based on the information he was 
provided  whether or not the benefits of investing outweighed the risks involved. 
As these risks were highlighted, she couldnt say he wasnt made aware of these 
risks or given relevant information with which to make an informed decision. 
She reiterated that the security was in place and that relevant risk warnings were 
given regarding the realisation of security to repay the loan.
Crowdstacker explained the credit committee was bolstered to add an extra layer of 
experience with regards to the process of loan recovery in general. And whilst she 
appreciated Mr B felt this evidences the credit committee wasn't fit for purpose, 
having seen evidence of the due diligence that was performed on the loans, she 
didnt agree this meant Crowdstacker failed to carry out due diligence checks on 
Company A.
Mr B remained unhappy and referred his complaint for a decision. As such, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as theinvestigator. I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but Ill explain my
reasons why.
Id first like to reassure Mr B that Ive read all the correspondence in the file when deciding 
the complaint. I hope he wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent commented on every 
specific point raised but its not because Ive failed to take it into account. Ive instead 
concentrated my findings on what I believe to be the key factors in reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Mr B has raised concerns regarding the information Crowdstacker presented to him about 
the opportunity to invest in Company A. The key issues centre around the security in place 
for the loan (including the valuations of the purchased pubs and the LTV) as well as the risk 
warnings provided to him.
When considering these points, Ive taken into account the regulatory obligations placed 
upon Crowdstacker at the time. The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for 
Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all authorised firms are 
required to comply with. The most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and 
not misleading.
Crowdstacker is also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the FCAs 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial 
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving Company As promotional material, Crowdstacker needed to satisfy 
itself that the campaign itself was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be 
satisfied that by approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in Company A, 
it would continue to be acting in its clients best interests.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions
made in the promotional material itself, Crowdstacker would need to carry out reasonable
checks. What these reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given
case, is something which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary
according to the particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to
provide a set of tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved.
Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its
obligations under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests
rule (COBS 2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on
the essential information on which any communication or promotion is based.Taking the above into account, Ive firstly considered how Crowdstacker acted, focussing on 
the risk warnings provided to Mr B.
Risk Warnings
I understand that Mr B has concerns that the risks of the investment into Company A were 
not fully disclosed to him. Ive looked at the information displayed on Crowdstackers website 
at the time he invested and can confirm that the following risk warning was prominent on the 
website:
Your capital is at risk if you lend to businesses.
This included a link to Crowdstackers full risk warning which explained the following:
1. Loss of capital
All investment in businesses involves an element of risk. Past performance of any 
company, including those with good cash flow and a healthy balance sheet, may not 
be a good guide to their successful performance in the future. Lending to businesses 
can lead to a loss of your capital as a lender if they default. You should not lend more 
money than you can afford to lose.
So Im satisfied the general risk warning presented to Mr B on Crowdstackers website made 
it clear that any investment into loans through the platform could result in a loss of capital.  
Crowdstacker also provided a Risk Factors section in the investment brochure for the loan 
which clearly highlighted the specific risks involved. The risk warning included the following 
regarding the future performance of Company A:
No assurances can be given as to the future performance of [Company A] and 
whether [Company A] will continue to achieve its business objectives. Prospective 
lenders should be aware when considering the past performance of [Company A]  
that past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results. There can be no 
guarantee that [Company A] will be profitable in the future. Performance depends on 
many facts including the value of the assets, market conditions, any related costs, 
the timing and management of the transactions, all of which may change over time.
There was also a risk warning provided regarding the security for the loan to Company A:
If [Company A] were to become insolvent, there is a risk that (a) the [Company A] 
Loans will not be repaid in part or in full and (b) some or all of the interest due on the 
[Company A] Loans will not be paid in part or in full. There is no certainty or 
guarantee that any realisation of assets or the security will be sufficient to enable 
[Company A] or as the case may be, the Security Trustee, to repay the [Company A] 
Loans or [Company A] liabilities thereunder.
Taking into account all of the above, I dont agree with Mr Bs comments that Crowdstacker 
downplayed the risks involved in investing into the loan with Company A. Rather, it made it 
clear that whilst security may be in place for the loan it may not be sufficient to cover any 
outstanding loan repayments. I understand Mr B has concerns that Company A may have 
been in a positon were it was unable to secure funding through any other means, and so 
crowdfunding was a last resort. Whilst I dont know whether Company A looked for 
alternative forms of funding prior to approaching Crowdstacker, I think its worth explaining 
that the businesses looking to raise funds through crowdfunding are often those which are 
unable to get traditional forms of funding and so are likely to be in a precarious financial position on the whole. Hence why numerous risk warnings were provided to Mr B to make 
him aware that his capital was at risk.
Security and LTVs
Its clear that Mr B feels strongly that Crowdstacker gave him misleading information about 
the extent of the security which was in place for loan to Company A. And he says the huge 
discrepancy between the valuations used to promote the loan to Company A and the 
valuations when it was put into administration highlights this failing. As Ive explained above, 
Crowdstacker had a regulatory obligation to ensure that the promotion of the loan to 
Company A was fair, clear and not misleading, which included ensuring that any security 
mentioned in the investment brochure was actually in place.
Page 13 of the investment brochure explained what security would be in place for the loan to 
Company A. The first security listed was legal charges over property:
Your Loan will be secured on each property purchased by the Company, by way of a 
first ranking legal charge over the property, in favour of the Security Trustee on 
behalf of the Lenders. Each charge will be registered with the Land Registry.
I can confirm that Ive seen copies of the title deeds for each property showing that a first 
ranking legal charge was registered for each property with the HM Land Registry.
The investment brochure also explained the following regarding the portfolio of pubs being 
independently valued:
An independent valuation of the properties will be carried out to establish the value 
prior to purchase and an Expected Market Value after refurbishment. The Loan to 
Value (LTV) will not exceed 70% of the purchase price on purchase and 70% of the 
Expected Market Value of the properties after refurbishment.
A further independent valuation on the portfolio of pubs will be carried out on an 
annual basis. If the outstanding Loan is greater than 70% of the Company assets, the 
shareholders take the following actions:
Shareholders may procure that further cash is injected into the Company by issuing 
shares or subordinated debt.
Company may choose to sell a property in order to realise any excess capital uplift.
Ive seen copies of the independent valuations carried out by a RICS qualified surveyor on 
each property. Having done so, Im satisfied that these were sufficiently detailed to establish 
the prices prior to purchase and the expected market values. And so, I think it was fair for 
Crowdstacker to rely on these to ensure Company A met the LTV requirements. Ive also 
seen evidence of the amount Company A contributed to the purchases, as well as 
completion statements which support that the LTV requirements were adhered to.
As part of Crowdstackers further review of Company A, following Company B being put into 
administration, it decided to also seek its own independent red-book valuations for the pubs 
to determine a prudent value for the pubs. The valuation was delivered at the beginning of 
December 2018 and showed a shortfall in values. Some of the shortfall was attributed to the 
closed pubs, as three of the seven pubs were still in the process of being refurbished prior to 
Company A going into administration. Ive seen no evidence which shows that any of the 
pubs that remained under refurbishment had breached the individual property conditions as 
set out in the investment brochure.Crowdstacker has also explained that four pubs had been opened by the end of 2017. From 
the information supplied, the pubs, on balance at that point, had traded well and had been in 
line with forecasts post-refurbishment at the time under Company As ownership. One of the 
pubs had traded ahead of target and this led to a revised valuation. Two of the pubs, were 
being refurbished and were recorded on the balance sheet at cost and not at EMV.
Crowdstacker has confirmed that the additional £1,400,000 raised was spent on the 
continued refurbishment of the two pubs, as well as purchasing an additional pub. This 
additional pub was purchased for around £446,000 with an EMV of £1,600,000 post 
refurbishment. Again, I can confirm that Ive seen evidence which supports these valuations.
Taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied the LTV requirements were adhered to. I 
say this as the unopened pubs, as mentioned above, were included in the 68% LTV 
calculation at cost  i.e. purchase price plus costs spent on refurbishment to date. As each 
pub was opened, they were to be valued at the EMV indicated in the initial valuation reports 
which would have added to the asset base and lowered the LTV when compared to 
Company As gross assets. Furthermore, the LTV test was intended to be conducted on a 
pub level basis during the year to allow for each pub to be refurbished and opened so as to 
add value to the company assets. Again, Ive seen no evidence to show there was a breach 
in the conditions of the loan in this respect.
On a final note on the security in place for the loan, I can confirm that Ive also seen 
evidence to show that Crowdstacker were appointed as a security trustee over Company A 
and its guarantor, and that a first ranking debenture was registered over the assets of both. 
And that Ive seen evidence that Company As subsidiary gave Crowdstacker a guarantee of 
Company As obligations under the loan. And so I have no concerns 
March 2018 update
Mr B has raised concerns regarding an update Crowdstacker sent to investors in March 
2018. In particular, Mr B says the following statement was misleading:
The gross assets of Authentic Alehouses as per the management accounts at 31st 
December 2017, exceeded £6.5 million. The Crowdstacker investment on 31st 
December 2017 was just under 68% LTV when compared to the companys gross 
assets, which is excellent in terms of security for investors.
Im conscious that the update provided was to existing investors, such as Mr B whod made 
his investment in late 2017 - prior to this update going out. As such, he didnt rely on this 
update when making his investment decision. Mr B understands this but say it illustrates his 
view about Crowdstacker's attitude more generally. Crowdstacker has explained that the 
financial numbers included in this update were in accordance with management information 
provided to it by Company As chartered accountant and Ive seen evidence of the Gross 
Assets Test conducted at the end of 2017. However, even if I were to find that the update 
was misleading, Id still need to think about whether it would have made any difference to Mr 
Bs investment decision, which he accepts it wouldnt have. 
So having considered everything, Im not persuaded Crowdstacker has acted unfairly in the 
way in which it presented the investment opportunity to lend to Company A and Im satisfied 
it performed sufficient due diligence before doing so and throughout the loan term.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman