DRN-3654057
The complaint
Mr V complains that his fund with The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) 
has underperformed. Mr V wants Prudential to make up the shortfall.
What happened
In 1988, Mr V transferred his employers pension fund to a Prudential Bond 32 plan (the 
plan). Prudential provided an illustration of the benefits Mr V could receive from the plan. 
The values were based on the prescribed assumed rate of growth of 8.5% and 13%.
Mr V complained to Prudential in 2020 that the projected illustration rates were overly 
optimistic. He thought it was reasonable to expect a return of 8.5% or more rather than the 
actual annual rate of return of about 6.5%. 
After Prudential didnt uphold his complaint, Mr V came to this service. 
The investigator considered his complaint but didnt recommend upholding it. She was 
satisfied that Prudential gave Mr V the relevant documentation at the time he took out the 
plan. She explained that Prudentials growth illustration was in line with the guidance set at 
the time. And that this service couldnt hold Prudential responsible for the fact Mr Vs 
investment hadnt performed as hoped for.  
Mr V is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. He says that only once in the 
lifetime of the plan did it achieve a 13% return and only seven times a return of 8.5%. Mr V 
thinks that Prudential mis-sold the plan to him. Mr V has given this service evidence of other 
pension providers that have had better rates of return on investment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this compliant in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything the parties have given me.
In 1988, at the time that Mr V took out the plan with Prudential, the regulator LAUTRO had 
set down standard growth rates that pension illustrations had to be based on. These were a 
lower rate of 8.5% and higher rate of 13%. This was also explained on Prudentials 
paperwork that it gave to Mr V.
Over time the hoped-for growth rates havent been achieved but LAUTRO required its 
members to use the standard growth rates that it, as regulator, had deemed fair. This was 
also in part so customers could make like for like comparisons of plans across different 
providers. Prudential as a member had to use these rates  for it not to wouldve been out of 
line with the rest of the market and in breach of its regulators guidance. 
I appreciate that Mr V is unhappy that the plan hasnt performed as he had hoped but returns 
on investments arent guaranteed. Just because an investment hasnt performed as well as 
expected doesnt necessarily mean the business has done anything wrong. 
Prudentials paperwork explained that the two amounts didnt represent the upper and lower 
limits of the possible amount of the benefit. And that the benefits actually payable may be 
higher or lower than those illustrated". So, I cant find that Prudential guaranteed a certain 
level of growth. This means I dont consider it reasonable to require Prudential to pay Mr V a 
pension sum thats based on the lower illustration of an 8.5% growth rate. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr V but for the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman