DRN-3486476
The complaint
Mr A complains Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd contacted him to repay a debt when 
they shouldnt have.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr A was formally entered into a Debt Relief Order (DRO). A DRO means 
creditors such as Lantern cant recover money owed unless the court gives permission  and 
usually people are discharged from their debt after 12 months.
Lantern purchased Mr As debt from another company after it went into liquidation. This was 
in July 2021, and they sent Mr A a Notice of Assignment (NoA). 
Mr A complained to Lantern about this  as he didnt expect to be contacted given he was in 
a DRO.
Lantern said they had to send a NoA but werent told about Mr A being in a DRO, and said 
the account was on hold while they verified this. In the meantime, they said Mr A could bring 
his complaint to our service if he wanted.
Mr A did contact us, saying hed continued to be contacted since hed told them he had a 
DRO, where Lantern were asking for payment. Mr A contacted our service on 
2 November 2021  explaining he suffered from depression, and Lanterns continued contact 
after hed told them he had a DRO was making this worse.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint and felt Lantern should pay Mr A £100 for the distress 
caused and mark his account as having a DRO  but said Lantern had acted fairly in 
contacting him with the NoA. This was on 8 April 2022.
Lantern replied, and said they were happy to award the compensation, but felt the only issue 
we should formally be able to consider was the NoA complaint  as they said thats all Mr A 
had raised with them. They acknowledged the other contact shouldnt have been sent, and 
they said sorry for this, but that complaint hadnt been raised with Lantern.
Following this our Investigator explained he felt it was included as part of this complaint. 
Lantern initially disputed this, and then just stopped responding to us  so the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
The point Lantern was raising was one of jurisdiction, so I addressed that separately, and 
explained why we can look into these issues. I gave Lantern a deadline to get back to me, or 
Ill consider it as though they accept the case is in jurisdiction, and Ill go on to consider the 
substance of Mr As complaint. As Lantern havent replied, Ive now done that and set out my 
outcome below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A told Lantern in his complaint to them the debt they were contacting him about in the 
NoA was part of the DRO. He gave them the reference number for the DRO, said he wont 
be making any payments  and if they continue to contact him then hed complain to our 
service.
Lantern at this point should have stopped any correspondence  and Mr A has been clear 
part of his complaint is about them asking him to repay the debt  which they continued to 
do.
In any event, I can see Lantern have since accepted they made an error in continuing to 
contact Mr A, and have said theyre willing to pay the £100.
I do think this has caused Mr A distress, given what hes told us about how it made him feel, 
and am satisfied £100 is a fair amount.
As the DRO has been shown to be in place for Mr A, and should now have been discharged, 
Id expect Lantern to have written to Mr A to confirm the account has been closed on their 
systems. Any issues though Mr A may have regarding this process would be something 
thatd have to form a new complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd to pay Mr A £100 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman