DRN-1211775
The complaint
Mrs D made a claim on her home insurance policy provided by Ageas Insurance Limited. 
She is unhappy about the amount offered by Ageas to settle her claim for damage to her 
bathroom suite.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs D contacted Ageas because the hand basin and floor in her cloakroom 
was accidentally damaged. Ageas agreed to replace the basin and repair the floor. However, 
Mrs D said that the suite was a non-standard colour and that as Ageas was only offering to 
pay for a white basin to be fitted, it would not match the toilet.
Ageas directed Mrs D to the terms in its policy booklet about matching sets and suites, which 
said that it would not make any contribution for undamaged items that were part of a set or 
suite that no longer matched the replaced item. It said that Mrs D could either accept a white 
hand basin or it would pay £1,165.26 (£1,265.26 minus the £100 excess) as a cash 
settlement and she could then arrange the replacement herself.
Mrs D complained to this service. She wanted Ageas to replace the basin, toilet and floor 
tiles so that they matched. Our investigator discussed the case with Ageas, which agreed to 
review its offer. It said it was now willing to offer a cash settlement to cover the cost of the 
damaged basin and damaged floor tiles. It would also pay 50% of the cost of replacing the 
toilet and the undamaged floor tiles based on a cost calculated by its contractor. 
When Ageas provided its new offer, it reduced the allowances in the previous quote as, for 
example, it said it had allowed too much for the costs of a hand basin. It offered a total cash 
settlement of £439.72 to cover the cost of replacing the damaged items and 50% of the cost 
of replacing the undamaged items. It said Mrs D could accept either this new offer to settle 
the claim or the original offer of £1,165.26.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as he thought the original offer was fair in the 
circumstances.
As Mrs D did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas policy documents say:
We treat each separate item of a matching pair, set or suite of furniture, soft furnishings, 
bathroom suite or other fixtures and fittings as a single item. If an item thats part of a 
matching set or suite is damaged, well aim to repair it or provide an identical replacement. 
However, if its not possible to provide a suitable repair or replacement, well only pay for the 
damaged item. Just to be clear, well not make any contribution for undamaged items that 
are part of a set or suite.This service has looked at a number of cases about issues with replacing items in a 
matching set where the policy explicitly says that matching sets are not covered. In cases 
like this, we will normally take account of whether or not the restriction was clear and 
reasonably brought to the consumers attention.
During the investigation, Mrs D told this service that she was aware of the matching sets 
exclusion when she bought the policy. Mrs D said that when she spoke to an insurance 
broker about her policy requirements, she said that she wanted a policy that included 
matching sets cover. However, due to her circumstances, there was a limited range of 
companies that would offer her insurance. She therefore, reluctantly, took out this particular 
policy because there were other elements that did meet her needs and to ensure that she 
had cover in place before her previous insurance policy expired.
I have thought about this and although I accept that Mrs D wanted a policy that included 
matching sets cover, she said she was aware that it wasnt included when she took out the 
policy. Mrs D had to make a pragmatic decision about how to make sure that she had 
insurance in place and as a result chose a policy that she knew didnt include this cover. On 
that basis, I dont think that it would be fair to require Ageas to pay towards undamaged 
matching items.
I also have to think about whether the amount that Ageas has offered to settle the claim is 
reasonable. It has made two offers of very different amounts, the second much lower than 
the first.
I have checked the price of basins of the same brand as the one Mrs D currently has. I found 
a number for sale for about £80, including the pedestal, but not the taps or basin waste. 
Although I dont know if these basins are of a directly comparable standard to the one that 
Mrs D has, I think that she is likely to be able to find a basin for around this amount. I have 
also looked at the price of a comparable type of floor tiles and think that Ageas proposed 
costs are similar to prices that are available to the public.
I have also thought about the labour costs involved, particularly as Mrs D doesnt want 
Ageas to do the work. Mrs D said that she thinks it would cost about £4,500 to get the work 
done herself, but she did not have a written quote that provides a breakdown of what this 
includes. Mrs D also said that where she lives the costs for works such as this are higher My 
understanding is that Mrs Ds quote covers a lot more work than Ageas would be expected 
to cover and so Mrs Ds quote is not directly comparable to the cash settlement offered by 
Ageas.
Although I am aware that insurance companies can often access rates that are much lower 
than are available commercially, Ageas appears to have been generous in its original 
allowances for the basin and damaged tiles. For example, it allowed £500 for the cost of the 
basin and pedestal, which it then greatly reduced in its second cash settlement offer. 
However, as it is still willing to pay the original total cash settlement offer, this means that 
there is more money available for labour costs once a more realistic figure for the cost of the 
basin and damaged tiles is factored in. On that basis, I think that the total amount Ageas 
originally offered includes a reasonable allowance for labour.
Based on the above, I dont think that Ageas needs to contribute to the cost of replacing the 
undamaged matching items. I also dont think that Ageas needs to increase the original cash 
offer that it made to settle the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman