DRN-2909036
The complaint
The executor of Mr Ds estate is unhappy that Aviva Equity Release UK Limited continued 
charging interest on his lifetime mortgage after his death.
What happened
The late Mr and Mrs D took out a lifetime mortgage of £36,000 with Aviva in 2003. The 
mortgage was arranged through a broker and it is responsible for whether the mortgage was 
suitable for them and their understanding of it.
The mortgage was designed to run for Mr and Mrs Ds lifetimes; only needing to be repaid 
on second death or if they moved into long-term care. The interest rate was fixed for the 
lifetime of the mortgage and the interest was added to the mortgage balance, with no 
payments needing to be made by Mr and Mrs D.
Mrs D died in 2019 and Mr D in 2020. Mr Ds executor was also their carer and had been 
living with them since 2011. Shes told us the size of the mortgage debt is such that the 
property will have to be sold to repay the mortgage, which will leave her homeless. The 
executor raised concerns with Aviva about it continuing to charge interest on the debt, 
despite Mr Ds death and the Covid-19 pandemic making it more difficult to sell properties.
Aviva responded to the complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It explained that due to there being a 
charge on the property the debt didnt end when the last borrower died and so interest 
continues to accrue until the mortgage is repaid. The mortgage debt, like all other assets and 
liabilities, formed part of the estate. It provided the executor with a copy of the mortgage 
agreement that detailed how the mortgage worked. It explained that as selling a property can 
take time, it allows up to 12 months for repayment of the mortgage and the timescale could 
be extended provided reasonable efforts had been made to sell the property. 
The executor wasnt happy with Avivas response and referred the complaint to this service. 
When doing so she told us she was unhappy with the amount of interest that has accrued on 
the mortgage. The property was left to her in Mr Ds will, but it will have to be sold to pay off 
the mortgage and she will have to move. She doesnt believe that Mr and Mrs D appreciated 
the consequences of borrowing the money. She also raised the issue that Aviva should have 
asked her to sign a waiver of her right to occupy the property, which it didnt do when it 
became aware that she had moved in some years after the mortgage was arranged.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He explained that while the executor was the sole beneficiary of Mr Ds estate, he 
couldnt consider the impact of Avivas actions on her as an individual; only the impact on the 
estate. He was satisfied that Aviva had administered the mortgage as we would expect and 
hadnt done anything wrong. It was normal that interest was charged on a mortgage until it 
was repaid, and he could see no reason to ask Aviva to suspend the interest. 
The executor didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She explained that the main 
reason was that Mr and Mrs D had attempted to complain about the advice they were given, 
but couldnt as the mortgage broker no longer existed. She went on to explain that neither of 
them had appreciated how the interest would accrue over time and, as the money released 
from the mortgage wasnt spent, the mortgage was mis-sold. She said she considered that 
as the mortgage was due to be repaid when Mr D died, the interest should have stopped 
accruing at that point. 
In addition, the executor said that this was especially so as the Covid-19 pandemic made 
probate slower and the property couldnt be marketed until probate was granted.  She said 
the circumstances meant that the asking price had to be adjusted to attract viewers and a 
much lower offer has been accepted in order to pay off the mortgage debt. She doesnt 
consider her request to have interest suspended is unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Our investigator considered the executors further comments, but they didnt change his 
conclusions. He considered that three months to obtain probate was fairly normal in his 
experience. In addition, the issues around marketing of the property and the price achieved, 
werent things he could consider as Aviva wasnt putting pressure on the estate to repay the 
mortgage. The investigator remained of the view that Aviva hadnt done anything wrong. As 
agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The executor has said that it is beyond her comprehension that a decent company with 
moral and ethical principles hasnt shown compassion to her. As our investigator explained, 
although the executor is the beneficiary and is unhappy that the accruing interest is 
effectively being deducted from her inheritance, we cant consider the complaint from that 
point of view. It is the estate of Mr D that is Avivas customer and our complainant in this 
situation. That means that we have to consider the effect of Avivas actions on the estate, 
not the knock-on effect on the beneficiaries when the estate is settled.
I have also noted the executors comments about the sale of the mortgage. She is right that 
as the mortgage was sold by an independent mortgage broker, it would be responsible for 
the advice. As such, Aviva has no responsibility for the advice the executor considers was 
wrong and, in the circumstances, I can only consider how it has administered the mortgage.
The executor is unhappy that interest continued to accrue on the mortgage debt after Mr Ds 
death. However, that is how mortgage contracts work, be they lifetime mortgages or more 
conventional ones. Interest is due to be paid on a debt while it is outstanding, and the death 
of the borrower doesnt alter that. The contract remains in place until the mortgage is paid off 
and interest is charged.
I have noted the comments about the situation in relation to obtaining probate and marketing 
the property. I would agree with the investigators comment in relation to the time that it took 
for probate to be granted  it was not a significant period for this process, and this would 
always have been needed before the property could be sold. On that basis I dont consider 
the general circumstances made any different to the situation, nor did they generally have a 
negative effect on the property market. As for the decisions about how much to sell the 
property for; I can understand that the executor would have to balance the speed of the 
property sale with the knowledge that the mortgage debt was increasing. However, that 
would be something that would always have been needed no matter what was happening in 
the wider world. 
While I know this will disappoint the executor, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong in 
administering the mortgage as it did after Mr Ds death.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask the estate of Mr D to accept or reject my decision 
before 14 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman