DRN-1661291
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) relates to the service he received 
when he tried to make a money transfer to a member of his family.
What happened
When Mr B tried to make an online money transfer to a family member, Barclays automated 
fraud prevention systems picked this up, blocked his account, and asked him to attend the 
branch with some identity documentation. He went into branch on the 17 October with some 
family members, and whilst there, the staff had concerns for Mr B that he may be being 
coerced, and so they contacted the Police.
Barclays asked Mr B to wait, which he did for around 3 hours. He was unhappy with the way 
he was treated. The Police confirmed that there was no issue, and his transfer was 
processed.  
Barclays upheld part of Mr Bs complaint and paid £200 into his account.
Mr B was unhappy with Barclayss final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Barclays hadnt done 
anything wrong and had acted fairly.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst my summary of what happened is brief, I do know Mr B went into a lot more detail. 
But, Im going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it 
reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
The facts of the complaint are accepted in so far as stopping Mr Bs transaction and asking 
him to attend the branch. This was done because Barclays systems highlighted the 
transaction as potentially fraudulent. The terms and conditions which govern the account 
allow Barclays to act to protect both their customer and the bank and so I think Barclays 
were right to stop the transaction and ask Mr B to go into the branch. 
Whilst in the branch, the staff remained concerned for Mr B, and it was because of their 
concern for him and desire to protect him, that they took the decision to call the police. I can 
understand how frustrating and upsetting that will have been for Mr B, especially as he had 
to wait for such a long time in the branch, but that has to be measured against Barclays wish 
to protect him.
Our investigator commented that without any audio CCTV it is impossible to say whether the 
way in which Mr B was spoken to could be classed as rude. I dont doubt that Mr B 
perceived it to be so, but without further evidence it would be unfair to find that it was.
Once Barclays formed the view that potentially Mr B may have been subjected to some 
coercion, I think they acted correctly and in accordance with the protocols that apply. Calling 
the Police in order to try and protect him was reasonable, and even though it didnt amount 
to anything in the end, I do understand why they took that step as a precautionary measure. 
So, I cant say they have done anything wrong. 
Barclays has accepted that there was some delay and because of that it apologised and 
gave Mr B £200. I understand that Mr B was unhappy that this payment was made without 
letting him know. I have read Barclays letter of the 24 December which says they will be 
paying £200 into his account and how they hope that will go some way into putting things 
right for him. So, the letter itself was in fact notice to Mr B that they would be making this 
payment. But the letter also provides contact details and an invitation to provide further 
information. So, I think Mr B could have contacted Barclays to discuss the £200 payment if 
he was not wanting it to be paid directly into his account.
So overall I cant say Barclays have acted unfairly here, and except for there being a delay in 
processing Mr Bs transaction I dont think Barclays did anything wrong. Barclays have made 
a very reasonable payment of £200 to reflect the delay and I think that is reasonable.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already paid Mr B £200 to settle this complaint, and I think that 
is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require it to do anything else.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman