DRN-4246189
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Barclays decided not to refund him after he was the victim of an 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. 
What happened
Mr K says he received a cold call from a company Ill refer to as P, followed by a letter, 
offering assistance in recovering funds that hed lost in an investment some years earlier. 
But this turned out to be a scam. 
He was told his initial investment of £25,000 was not lost, as hed previously thought, and 
was now worth approximately £90,000. The scammers explained his money was being held 
in escrow and P could help to recover and return this to Mr K. 
Mr K made payments from other accounts and using other sources of funds. This complaint 
relates to his losses from his Barclays account.
Mr K made a total of five payments across the course of a week to three new payees.  His 
losses from his Barclays account totalled £13,280.56. Barclays was able to recover 
£1,861.86 which has been returned to Mr K. The payments related to various fees and 
commissions that the scammers said were needed to release his investment funds.
Mr K said he researched P and found them on Companies House. He said P didnt have a 
website but there were no other red flags when looking online. He went on to receive various 
documents from P for the payments, some of which he was told would be refundable when 
his investment profits were released. 
Mr K said, when trying to contact P, after he was told his money would be released to him, 
he couldnt reach them and so he thought it could be a scam. He says it was at this point he 
checked the address on the letters and invoices hed received and realised the address was 
for a different registered company.
Barclays looked into Mr Ks scam claim. Barclays evidence shows that when selecting the 
payment purpose Mr K said these payments were to friends and family and the payees 
were all individuals names which came back with a correct name match when checked. 
Barclays notes show that it intervened with a further payment that Mr K attempted but was 
blocked by the banks fraud detection systems. When questioned Mr K said the payment was 
for building work and was genuine. The agent that spoke to Mr K decided to place a block on 
the account and asked Mr K to attend the branch which Mr K was not happy to do. Mr K then 
transferred his funds to an account he held at a different bank. And shortly after he reported 
the scam to both Barclays and his other banks.
When asked why he chose the payment reason he said it was because if he selected 
investment it was more likely to get flagged. He said he didnt want the payment to be 
stopped. He said he did not check the FCA website as he knew the company wasnt 
regulated. And he didnt question why he was paying individuals rather than the company 
account he thought he was dealing with. 
Barclays looked into matters. It said it had considered Mr Ks losses in light of the CRM 
code. It said it wouldnt be reimbursing Mr K as he was given sufficient warnings through his 
mobile banking app, prior to him making the payments. Barclays went on to say Mr K did not 
perform the required level of due diligence, before authorising the payments. It also said the 
payments werent unusual or out of character compared to Mr Ks usual account activity. 
It also decided to close Mr Ks account and gave him 60 days notice. On review of this 
decision Barclays decided it wouldnt be re-opening Mr Ks account.
Barclays explained Mr K has made four scam claims since January 2020, relating to similar 
and, in some instances, the exact same scam. Barclays says it has paid £102,626 to Mr K 
as result of these scams. When refunding Mr K on one of those occasions it provided scam 
education, saying it would not pay out on future claims should he invest without due 
diligence. Mr K gave assurances he wouldnt pay individuals again. And in one instance 
Barclays notes show the Police spoke to Mr K when the banking protocol was invoked. 
One of our investigators looked into things. She felt Mr Ks losses werent covered by the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code as Mr K had already received full 
reimbursement for his losses relating to the original investment. So, he couldnt have thought 
there was a genuine claim for the money that P was claiming to return to him. 
She also said that even if the bank had intervened, she didnt think it would have made a 
difference. Having listened to calls between Mr K and a different bank, during which he 
admitted to being the victim of a scam and said he wouldnt go on to make any further 
payments, but then did. 
She also considered that Mr K was advised the previous year about recovery scams, and he 
said he would change his telephone number and not continue to make payments. She went 
on to say Mr K didnt select the correct payment reason when carrying out these transactions 
and he said he would make the payments from a different bank if they were blocked. 
Barclays blocked Mr Ks account and asked him to visit the branch, but he continued to 
make payments from a different account. 
Mr K was unhappy with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. He 
said Barclays had refunded him on one occasion but, never gave him a satisfactory 
explanation as to why they thought he was the victim of a scam for a second time.
He also said the money Barclays refunded was well below the sum of money he had 
expected. And the payments were verified by Barclays Bank. He went on to say Barclays 
never told him why the payment was blocked (on 11 May 2022) and thats why he chose the 
different payment reason. 
Mr Ks representatives added that they thought Mr Ks losses were covered by the CRM 
code. Mr K thought his initial investment could still be recovered so his dealings with the 
scammers still appeared genuine.
Additional background information
In 2018 and 2019 Mr K was dealing with liquidators for the initial investment he made. 
During this time there are several emails where Mr K is warned in general about companies 
claiming to recover lost investment funds on his behalf. One email said I would advise 
extreme caution in your dealings with them and do not pay any fees to a company on the 
promise of being able to recover funds for you. There are a lot of companies like this that 
take advantage of investors who have lost funds.. And he was advised to take independent 
financial advice.Mr K also contacted the FCA in October 2019 as he had concerns about a different  
company he was dealing with. The FCAs response included information about the company 
not being FCA regulated but that it wasnt clear if FCA regulation was required. And that it 
wasnt unusual for scammers to contact consumers to say money could be recovered, and 
they had concerns, based on what Mr K had explained, these events held some 
characteristics of a scam.
In January 2020 Mr K had discussions with the Police and confirmed he wouldnt be making 
any more payments unless he was 100% sure who he was dealing with. And he was 
advised not to pay anyone an upfront fee to anyone offering a service, particularly in 
recovery of funds. Mr K even said he suspected the payments he was making were part of a 
scam, at points, but did not want to face the reality of that. 
Mr K also contacted the insolvency service in April 2022 about P (that he went on to pay as 
part of this scam). He explained he had not parted with any money as he couldnt trust them. 
But shortly after this email exchange he made payments of over £58,000 to P across his 
Barclays and two other bank accounts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same overall conclusion that Barclays does not need to 
refund Mr K for his losses.
 
Ill start by saying how sorry I am that Mr K has clearly been targeted by scammers on a 
number of occasions, with the promise of recovering money he invested in 2018. Each time 
this has turned out to be a scam. And I appreciate this will have had and will continue to 
have an impact on Mr K and his financial position. But in this instance, Im not 
recommending that he receive a refund for his losses from Barclays. Ill go on to explain why 
Barclays doesnt need to refund Mr K in this instance. 
I disagree with the investigators initial finding that Mr Ks payments are not covered by the 
CRM code as I believe they are. I think even if Mr K had been refunded his losses from the 
initial investment from his bank, its possible he could still seek to recover his initial funds 
and any returns made on those funds. And there is no evidence of those initial investment 
funds being refunded by Barclays, only the subsequent recovery fund scams that he fell 
victim to. So, I dont think there is an issue with Mr K believing the payments were for a 
legitimate purpose but were in fact fraudulent. And the payments are covered by the CRM 
code.
But I do agree with the investigators finding that Barclays isnt liable to refund Mr K under the 
CRM code. She said, and I agree, that better intervention by Barclays wouldnt have made a 
difference. Ill explain why in more detail.
Did Mr K have a reasonable basis of belief when making these payments?
Ive started by considering whether Mr K had a reasonable basis of belief when deciding to 
make these payments. 
Having considered Mr Ks actions at the time he made these payments, his previous scam 
claims, all the correspondence hes provided and the banks notes, Im satisfied that Mr K 
was or ought reasonably to have known he wasnt going to recover the funds he originally 
invested. Each time he appears to have been scammed, hes told his initial investment is a 
different amount (far larger than his initial investment) and given a range of different reasons why he needed to pay varying amounts, in order to access his funds. And he had been told 
and seems aware that all the previous recovery attempts were in fact scams. 
Mr K says he lost an initial £25,000 to an investment in 2018. But Mr K also spent around 
£106,000 in 2019 and 2020 falling for recovery scams, most of which his banks have 
refunded. And in this particular scam, Mr K spent approximately a further £58,000 across 
April and May 2022. Overall I havent seen any real difference in the scams that Mr K fell 
victim to previously and this one where he was contacted by P. Mr K hasnt said or shown 
any convincing evidence to support why P was genuine given the plethora of warnings and 
advice hed been given about proceeding with caution with any company claiming to 
recovery his lost investment funds. 
It appears that Mr K fell victim to the exact same scam twice before, with payments from his 
Barclays account, in the two years prior to this one. Mr K received partial and, in some 
instances, full refunds for the payments he made. Mr K also seems to have been aware that 
he was scammed on those occasions. And was given at least some advice to be on the look 
out for these types of scams in the future. But when P contacted him, I cant see that he did 
anything more than check Companies House to see if it was a registered business. And 
when he received the paperwork from P, he doesnt appear to have noticed the address is 
different to that on Companies House, something that he did realise after he thought hed 
been scammed. 
Given that Mr K had been scammed at least twice before, it would be reasonable for him to 
have made further checks and enquiries before deciding to part with such large sums of 
money, based on a cold call and a few invoices. In light of this, Im not persuaded Mr K had 
a reasonable basis of belief, that he was dealing with a genuine company, attempting to 
recover his investment funds. 
Did Barclays meet its standards under the CRM code?
Mr K has fallen victim to several recovery fund scams across a number of years. At each 
juncture, he was given warnings about scammers targeting him, with promises of recovery. 
From the correspondence Mr K has provided, I can see he was advised that companies 
asking for money upfront in this way, were very likely to be a scam. That he should proceed 
with extreme caution and that he was likely to be targeted by scammers because of the 
initial investment money he lost. Mr K doesnt appear to have heeded those warnings from, 
the Police, FCA, Insolvency service, liquidators or indeed from Barclays and his other bank 
account providers.
Barclays has provided a comprehensive history of the activity on the account and its 
interactions with Mr K. Mr K had a call with Barclays at the time it refunded his losses from a 
previous scam in 2020. During that call Mr K acknowledges the scam was sophisticated and 
that he would proceed with caution going forward. The Barclays agent says if ever hes 
unsure he can go online and check the FCA website and he can always call the bank 
(Barclays) and they can go through it with him. Mr K goes on to say If Im going to make any 
sort of payment Ill check with you. The Barclays agent also explains that if this sort of scam 
happens again Barclays might not be in a position to refund him, but he should never think 
twice about calling the bank if he needs help.
I have also listened to the calls where Mr K is attempting a further payment as part of this 
scam (on the 11th May 2022), which is ultimately blocked by Barclays. I can hear Mr K is 
frustrated that his payment has been blocked and he tells the Barclays agent that they 
should be working in his interests and allow him to make the payment. The Barclays agent is 
very thorough, asking a series of questions to help ascertain what the payment is for and 
who the payee is. As the agent wasnt satisfied with Mr Ks responses, she explained that he would need to go to a branch to complete some further checks. Mr K was unhappy with this 
response and said hed transfer the money to his account held at a different bank.
Barclays has said it provided Mr K with warnings each time he set up a new payee and this 
was based on the payment reason he selected as friends and family. Mr K has been 
honest about his reasons for doing so and made this choice in an attempt to avoid the 
payments being blocked. And of course when it did intervene with a payment, beyond its 
online warnings, Mr K had a cover story about the payments and did not appear deterred by 
the questioning in attempts to protect him from risks of scams and/or financial harm. 
With all of this in mind Ive thought about whether Barclays met its standards under the CRM 
code. Barclays online warnings were prompted by the information that Mr K provided at the 
time of making the payments. However the payment purpose isnt something that stands in 
isolation and thats why when Mr K attempted a sixth payment on 11 May 2022 it intervened 
and discussed the payment with Mr K. 
When it did intervene the Barclays agent was thorough and, in my opinion, proceeded 
proportionately with the answers Mr K provided. Mr K was advised to attend the branch 
presumably for branch staff and the fraud team to get a better understanding of the 
payments he was making.  
Its not clear why the payment was blocked and Barclays didnt tell Mr K the specific reason 
that it was a suspicious payment - which is one of Mr Ks complaint points. But Barclays did 
make it clear they thought it was suspicious and thats why they didnt allow him to proceed 
with the payment. And as Mr K wasnt forthcoming with the real reasons for the payment the 
Barclays agent was limited in her ability to appropriately warn Mr K. 
But I am satisfied from both Mr Ks explanation of the events, both in handling his complaints 
and when he reported the scam  that he would have and did proceed with the payments 
regardless of the actions of Barclays (and his other banks). I think Barclays intervention 
here was proportionate and I dont think better or different intervention would have made a 
difference. Mr K was determined to make the payments, he acknowledged there was at least 
some risk in that decision and decided to go ahead regardless. Because of that I cant say 
that Barclays needs to refund Mr K. 
In his calls with both Barclays and his other banks, when reporting and discussing the scam, 
Mr K admits it was like taking a gamble. He said he made some of the payments because 
P had promised they were refundable, although he had no way of confirming this. And he 
said he always had the niggling doubt in the back of his mind, but he was looking at the 
bigger picture and what he was going to gain (the returns he was promised). I have also 
seen that Mr K reported some payments to P as a scam (to a different bank account 
provider) and then continued to make payments to P. So, Id go so far as to say Mr K 
understood the scam risk and would have (and did) go ahead regardless of what Barclays 
(and his other banks) did or said. 
Ive also thought about Mr Ks personal circumstances. In conversations with Barclays and 
his other bank account providers that this has been questioned and carefully considered. 
And having done so I cant see any other reason why Mr K should receive a refund under 
the CRM Code. 
Recovery of funds
I can see that Barclays did make attempts to recover Mr Ks funds after he reported the 
scam. Some of those funds were recovered and this have been returned to Mr K. 
Once it was made aware of the scam, Im satisfied that Barclays did what it could to recover 
Mr Ks money. So it wasnt responsible for Mr Ks losses at this point.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. For the above reasons, despite the CRM Code applying to 
these transactions, Im satisfied Barclays was entitled to choose not to reimburse Mr Ks 
losses. Again, that doesnt take away from the fact that Mr K was the victim of a scam. But 
rather, I dont think Barclays was at fault here, or that it has applied the CRM Code 
incorrectly. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman