DRN-1607545
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI.  
What happened
Briefly:
In 1999 Mr B took out PPI in connection with a mortgage further advance application - Mr B 
had an existing mortgage with BoS. According to BoS' records, things happened during a 
branch meeting.
The policy provided protection for Mr B's mortgage payments in the event he couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out for up to 24 
months per claim and it cost just under £11 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr B was employed, and he said he was entitled to at least 12 
months' sick pay. He said he had no other means he couldve used to make his repayments, 
and he was in good health at the time.
BoS' records show the mortgage account became a regulated mortgage in 2005.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
Mr B chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for him.
Because Mr B disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant 
here in deciding Mr B's complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr B's complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr B have a choice about PPI? 
did he agree to take it out?
I think BoS made it clear that Mr B didn't have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant now remember this. 
BoS has provided copies of some of the paperwork from the time of the sale, including the 
further advance mortgage application and the PPI application. Looking at these I can see the 
further advance application didn't contain any information about PPI - it didn't say or imply PPI was a necessary part of the mortgage. And by having to complete and sign a separate 
PPI application, I'm not persuaded Mr B would've been given the impression that PPI was a 
condition of the new lending. He'd also had his existing mortgage without PPI for many 
years.
So, overall I think BoS made it clear enough that PPI was optional and that Mr B chose and 
agreed to take it out.
the advice
BoS says because this was a branch sale it recommended the PPI to Mr B. This means 
BoS had to check that the PPI was right for Mr B  and based on what Ive seen of 
his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, he was eligible for the cover; 
he wasn't affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover such as those for 
existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and he seems to have 
had a need for the cover.
Mr B says he was entitled to 12 months' sick pay and good redundancy pay, so he was in a 
position to secure his payments. And while that level of sick pay is unusual in my view, even 
if Mr B was entitled to full pay for that length of time, the policy would've paid out in addition 
to this and for longer - up to 24 months per claim if necessary. So if the insured risks 
became a reality and Mr B found himself unable to work for an extended period, I think the 
policy would've been useful to him. Mr B was borrowing money secured against his home, 
and he says he didn't have any savings or other means to fall back on - he was also solely 
responsible for the debt. So in light of this and given the relatively insignificant cost of the 
PPI, I don't think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended the cover to him.
the information  
Given the limited available evidence about a meeting which took place around 20 years ago, 
I accept its possible the information BoS gave Mr B about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
shouldve been - albeit I think Mr B understood its cost. But as I found above, I think he likely 
chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And as I also said above it 
doesn't appear that it was inappropriate for him - so it seems like it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr B off taking out the cover. 
This means I dont think Mr B has lost out as a result of having PPI, so BoS doesn't have to 
pay back to Mr B what he paid for PPI
Ive thought about everything Mr B and his representative has said. But these points dont 
change my decision. For the reasons I've set out above, I don't uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no 
award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman