DRN-3271694
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with her request for a refund of 
the premium she paid for an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs M purchased an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The 
policy was purchased on 29 January 2020, to cover trips within Europe of up to 17 days 
duration. The policy started on 4 January 2020 and ended on 3 February 2021. 
Mrs M paid a total of £134.15 including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the standard level 
of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered her for a number of declared 
medical conditions.
Mrs M was due to travel abroad from 23 September until 3 October 2020. She contacted 
Great Lakes on 10 September 2020 in order to query the extent of coverage for Covid-19 
under her policy. Great Lakes informed Mrs M that her policy didnt include any Covid-19 
cover. So, she requested a refund of her policy premium as she felt shed need to obtain an 
alternative travel insurance policy elsewhere. Great Lakes informed Mrs M that her refund 
request would be sent to the correct department, which would respond with information 
about the amount of any refund due under the policy.
On 18 January 2021, Mrs M contacted Great Lakes to discuss her refund request further. 
During this telephone call, Great Lakes informed Mrs M that it was able to offer her a partial 
refund of £20.12. But Mrs M was unhappy with that amount and asked Great Lakes to lodge 
a complaint on her behalf.
On 25 January 2021, Great Lakes issued its final response to Mrs Ms complaint. It 
explained that a full refund couldnt be provided as the cooling off period had expired. And 
it reaffirmed its partial refund offer of £20.12, which is said reflected the length of time the 
policy had been in force.
Being disatisfied with Great Lakes refund offer, Mrs M referred her complaint to our service 
where it was considered by one of our investigators, who acknowledged the unique and 
unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. They set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. 
Our investigator explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 4 February 2020 and 
the policy covered various risks during that time. And they thought the offer Great Lakes had 
made to resolve this complaint was fair and reasonable. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mrs M didnt agree 
and requested an ombudsmans assessment. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a 
fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ms travel insurance policy with Great Lakes state: 
You have a right to cancel up to 14 days of the date you receive:
The policy document at the start of your insurance;
The renewal policy documentation for subsequent periods of insurance.
Should you decide to exercise this cancellation right, you will be entitled to a refund of the 
premium provided that you have not started a trip to which the insurance applies and you 
have not made or intend to make a claim.
Following the expiry of your 14 day cancellation period you continue to have the right to 
cancel your policy at any time during its term by contacting us, but no refund of the premium 
will be available.
For Annual Multi-Trip Policies, the 14 day cancellation period is extended up to the start date 
of your policy.
Like our investigator, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mrs M to receive a full refund of 
the premium paid because: 
Cover under the policy commenced on 4 February 2020, which is confirmed by the 
insurance documentation Mrs M received. Im satisfied Mrs M was reasonably made 
aware of the terms that applied to her policy, which are typical of the cancellation 
terms found in most travel insurance policies.
Mrs M didnt contact Great Lakes to discuss a refund of her policy until 10 September 
2020, which was when she made her query about the extent of coverage for Covid-
19. And she didnt request the cancellation of her policy during this telephone call. 
Even if Mrs M had requested the cancellation of her policy during her conversation 
with Great Lakes on 10 September 2020, this would have been outside the cooling 
off period. So, there wouldnt have been a requirement under the relevant industry 
rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. I say this because its a 
fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. And, as Ive outlined 
above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for cancellation outside 
the cooling off. 
Mrs M has argued that the policy she took out with Great Lakes wasnt suitable to her 
needs. This is because her policy didnt provide cover for Covid-19. However, this is 
due because, when Mrs Ms policy was incepted, Covid-19 hadnt yet been declared 
a pandemic. So, its impact on future travel plans wasnt known at that time. And this 
explains why Covid-19 cover wasnt written into the terms and conditions of the policy at the time the policy was taken out. In the overall circumstances, I cant say this was 
unreasonable.
Mrs M has stated that she feels Great Lakes ought to have informed her that Covid-
19 was not covered under her policy. But, as Ive already mentioned, Mrs M received 
a copy of the policy terms and conditions when the policy was taken out. So, it ought 
to have been clear what was covered under the policy. And theres no requirement 
for an insurer to notify policyholders that Covid-19 isnt covered under a policy where 
a policy was taken out prior to the pandemic. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I cant fairly conclude that Great Lakes 
made an error in not contacting Mrs M to alert her to the fact that her policy was 
absent Covid-19 cover. And, having heard the telephone recording of Mrs Ms call 
with Great Lakes on 10 September 2020, Im satisfied that when it was asked to 
clarify the extent of cover for Covid-19 under the policy very clear guidance was 
provided. 
Mrs M has told our service that, in view of the limitations of her policy with Great 
Lakes, she had to purchase another policy of insurance to provide Covid-19 cover in 
respect of her holiday abroad. And its clear that she thinks Great Lakes should 
refund a higher amount because of the additional cover she had to take out.
Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to 
depart from industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mrs Ms contract because 
of the exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both 
parties to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for 
Mrs Ms contract with Great Lakes to be performed  this is because cover under the 
policy started on 4 February 2020.
Mrs M was insured from 4 February 2020 for travelling on any number of trips within 
Europe of up to 17 days duration which she may have taken until the policy expired. 
She has said she wasnt able to travel abroad under this policy due to the absence of 
covid cover. But, while Im not disputing what Mrs M says, because of the way annual 
multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of knowing how many such 
trips a policyholder has taken since their policy was incepted. 
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mrs M for the cancellation of any holidays 
which she had booked and was due to take from 4 February 2020 until 3 February 
2021. So, Mrs M would have been covered if she had had to cancel any number of 
holidays because of any listed events insured under the policy including, for example, 
her falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical condition. 
When Mrs M contacted Great Lakes on 10 September 2020 to request a refund of 
her policy premium her policy had 146 days left to run before it expired. I havent 
seen any evidence showing that Mrs M cancelled her policy with Great Lakes at any 
time. The available evidence suggests that the policy ran to full term until its expiry 
on 3 February 2021. In these cirucmstances, it wouldnt be unreasonable for Great 
Lakes to decline to refund any of the premium Mrs M paid.
However, in efforts to resolve this complaint, Great Lakes offered to refund £20.12 or 
15% of the premium Mrs M paid. Im satisfied that Great Lakes has acted reasonably 
in its offer to resolve this complaint because its treated the date Mrs M first contacted it to discuss the extent of cover under her policy in the same way it would have done 
had she requested the cancellation of her policy at that time.
If Mrs M had requested that Great Lakes cancel her policy on 10 September 2020, 
shed have been on cover for 219 days. Great Lakes has said that, in its claims 
experience, it receives varying percentages of claims across different months of an 
annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. This means that the risk of a claim is not 
spread evenly across the year. 
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for 
calculating the percentage refund in the way it has, Im satisfied its demonstrated 
that there was a material unevenness in the spread of risk throughout the term of this 
annual insurance policy. And Im satisfied that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mrs M 
unfairly or any differently to other customers in similar circumstances. And I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to direct Great Lakes to offer a larger refund in the 
particular circumstances of this case.
Given that Mrs M didnt cancel her policy, and because Great Lakes had been on risk 
for 219 days before she contacted it to discuss her policy, I dont think it acted 
unreasonably or unfairly in offering a 15% premium refund. Great Lakes has 
confirmed that this would be paid either as a cash settlement over the telephone or 
via a cheque payment. I understand that the refund hasnt yet been made to Mrs M. 
So, to resolve this complaint, Im going to direct Great Lakes to refund Mrs M £20.12. 
But Im not going to direct it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman