DRN-3228224
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC dealt with her request for account information 
on accounts not used in some time.
What happened
Mrs M says she had four Lloyds accounts open in the 1990s that had not been used for 
some time. She says she lives outside the United Kingdom but on a visit in 2019 attended a 
Lloyds branch to ask about the accounts. Mrs M says she was told the accounts were 
dormant and that she should ask a different organisation about the accounts which deals 
with old accounts. Mrs M also says she has been told one of the accounts has a small 
balance but says the others had more money in them and has found account statements 
from the early 1990s which show about £20,000 in one. She would like confirmation of the 
account balances and says Lloyds hasnt helped her.
Lloyds says its records show that three of the accounts were closed in the 1990s and due to 
the passage of time no longer holds any information about them. It says it has given Mrs M 
details of the organisation that may hold the money if any money was transferred to it. 
Lloyds says the other account was closed by it in 2014 after 15 years of inactivity and a 
balance of just over £16 was transferred to the same organisation. It says it has tried to help 
Mrs M, but these accounts have not been used for nearly 30 years in some cases.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Lloyds had searched for the accounts but couldnt be expected to hold records for 
this length of time and was only obliged to hold records for six years. The investigator 
thought Mrs Ms account statements that she provided showed a balance some two years 
before the account in question was closed and didnt provide evidence the money was still in 
the account or had not been withdrawn.
Mrs M says she tried to speak to Lloyds about the accounts over the years and would like to 
know where her money is. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision.
I am sure Mrs M appreciates that banks and building societies are not required to hold 
information for more than six years. Im satisfied that having looked at Lloyds records that 
three of the accounts were closed in the 1990s with the other being closed some years later 
after 15 years of inactivity. Im also satisfied that Lloyds has fairly explained what would have 
happened to any balances if there were any, and has provided details of the organisation 
that would hold any balances. I cant fairly hold Lloyds responsible for not being able to 
provide exact details of the closing balances, even if there were any, due to the significant 
passage of time in this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs M has found an account statement which shows that she had £20,000 in 
one of the accounts some years before the closure. But I dont think that provides any 
evidence that the money was still in the account when it closed on Lloyds systems. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds has tried to help Mrs M by searching its records and by 
providing her with details of the organisations that may be able to help her. I dont think a 
statement some years before the date in question provides evidence that there was money 
in an account some two years later. And I cant see what else Lloyds could do in these 
circumstances to try and help Mrs M further. Im satisfied this now brings an end to what we 
in trying to resolve this complaint informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman