DRN-2473212
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a series of payments made from 
his current account that he says he didnt make.
What happened
Mr J was on a night out in December 2019 when he says his wallet was stolen. A series of 
payments, for a total of around £5,000, were then made from Mr Js Barclays current 
account to a number of different bars, that Mr J says he didnt make. Mr J says his wallet 
was then handed in to the hotel he was staying in.
Following its investigation, Barclays refused to refund the payments. It said it couldnt see 
how someone else would know Mr Js PIN and that the pattern of payments didnt fit with 
what it would expect to see if his card had been stolen. Mr J wasnt happy with Barclays 
response, so referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said he felt it was likely Mr J had 
authorised the payments, and so Barclays didnt need to refund them. Mr J disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Barclays needs to refund the payments to Mr J. Ill explain why 
below.
Generally, Barclays can hold Mr J liable for disputed payments if the evidence suggests its 
more likely than not that he made them himself or told someone else they could make them 
with his card.
Barclays has sent us technical evidence showing how all the disputed payments were made. 
And, from this, Im satisfied that Mr Js genuine card and PIN were used to make all the 
payments.
But the relevant regulations say that this, on its own, isnt enough to allow Barclays to hold 
Mr J liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than 
not that Mr J consented to the payments in dispute being made with his card.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Mr J says he last used his card in a bar earlier that night. And hes suggested someone 
couldve watched him enter his PIN at that point and then stolen his card. But this payment 
was over three hours before the first disputed payment. And I think its unlikely someone 
who had watched him enter his PIN wouldve waited so long to either steal his card or then 
use it.
And if they didnt watch him enter it, I cant see how someone who stole Mr Js card would 
know his PIN. Barclayss evidence shows the PIN was entered correctly for each of the 
disputed payments, with no incorrect attempts. Mr J says his PIN wasnt written down in his 
wallet and wasnt a memorable number, like his date of birth. And given the number of 
possible combinations, its extremely unlikely someone could guess the PIN correctly first 
time. So I think its likely that whoever made the payments, knew Mr Js PIN.
The general nature of these payments also isnt the sort of thing a thief would normally do 
after stealing a card. Generally, the way fraudsters operate is to get as much money as 
quickly as possible in order to avoid the source of the money being cut-off or them being 
detected. But here, there are several gaps of around an hour between some of the 
payments, the payments dont use up the full balance in the account and they stop before 
the card is reported lost or blocked. Its also unusual for a thief to return a stolen card or 
leave it somewhere it could be recovered. So I dont think its likely an unknown thief stole 
Mr Js card.
I appreciate how Mr J feels about this case, but Im afraid the evidence isnt in his favour. 
And, in the absence of any other likely explanation and based on the evidence I have, I think 
its likely Mr J either made the payments himself or authorised someone else to do so.
So I think Barclays has acted reasonably in holding Mr J liable for the payments, and I dont 
think it needs to refund the payments to him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman