DRN-3879708
The complaint
Mr S has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) provided him with the bank statement of 
another customer of the bank.
Mr S says that when he took the incorrect bank statement home, his wife saw it and thought 
hed been cheating on her. Mr S says that this caused them serious relationships issues. Mr 
S says he and his wife are now separated as a result of this.
To resolve the complaint, Mr S would like £500 so that he can take his wife away on holiday, 
and for TSB to provide something in writing to confirm that it was a genuine mistake.
What happened
In its response to the complaint TSB apologised for its error and paid Mr S a total of £225 
compensation.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he concluded that what TSB had 
already agreed to do was reasonable.
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything that has been provided by both parties, overall I think that 
what TSB has already done to put matters right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
From the outset, it does not appear to be in dispute that TSB had provided Mr S with a bank 
statement of another customers account. Mr S has raised concerns that this was a breach 
of data protection rules. However, as this complaint concerns Mr S specifically, I would only 
be able to consider instances where his personal data has been incorrectly shared with third 
parties. However, as there is no suggestion to say that has happened, theres nothing further 
I can add on this specific point.
When considering whether TSBs offer was fair, I can only reasonably hold TSB responsible 
for any reasonably foreseeable distress and inconvenience that may have occurred as a 
result of its error. 
In my view, I dont think Mr Ss relationship issues were a reasonably foreseeable 
consequence of TSB providing him with the incorrect bank statement. I say this especially as 
the bank statement was clearly not his account  as it had someone elses name at the top. 
So it wouldve been evident from the outset that the spending on the account was not Mr Ss. 
Furthermore, TSB wrote to Mr S on 14 January 2022 i.e. around three days after raising his 
complaint, apologising that it had made an error and that the bank statement it had provided 
him was indeed for another customer. So Im satisfied that TSB took steps reasonably 
quickly, to provide Mr S with confirmation in writing that it had incorrectly provided him with 
someone elses bank statements.
I do recognise that Mr S will have experienced some distress and inconvenience, however. 
For example, I appreciate that he may have experienced some distress in having to explain 
to his wife that hed been provided with someone elses bank statement. And also some 
inconvenience in having to get a copy of the correct bank statement provided to him. But I 
dont think its reasonable to hold the bank responsible for any distress or inconvenience 
caused because, as Mr S suggests, his wife chose not to believe his explanation of events 
which resulted in their relationship deteriorating. 
So when taking everything into account, I think TSBs offer to pay Mr S £225 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think TSB Bank plc needs to do anything more, 
than what it has already done, to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman