DRN-1697714
Complaint
Mr J says Santander UK plc, trading at the time as Alliance & Leicester, mis-sold him 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a loan.
Mr J took out the loan in 2009. At the same time he was sold a regular premium PPI 
policy which would have covered his loan repayments if he became unable to work or lost 
his job. It also provided life cover.
For consistency, Ill refer to Santander throughout this decision.
Background
Santander told us it has already offered to pay back some money to Mr J for the commission 
it received from selling the PPI to Mr J. But Mr J still thinks the PPI was mis-sold in the first 
place.
One of our adjudicators looked at this case and said the complaint about the actual mis-sale 
should also be upheld. Santander didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for 
an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Js case.
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint about the mis-sale 
because overall, I dont think he was given clear enough information about the cost of the 
policy.
Santander says Mr J applied for both the loan and PPI over the internet. It couldnt send us 
his original application form but it sent us examples of the type of forms which it says 
were used at the time. The on-line process supposedly gave consumers two options about 
having PPI with a loan  one choosing to buy PPI, the other choosing not to. Santander says 
that Mr J would have had to choose one of these options to progress onto the next stage of 
the application.
This therefore wasnt an advised sale because Mr J would have made his way through 
the application process without any help or guidance from Santander. However, Santander 
still had a duty to provide Mr J with clear enough information about the PPI policy so he 
could make an informed decision about whether or not he wanted to go ahead and buy it.
I dont think Santander did this because at the time he made his choice about the PPI, 
we know Mr J wouldnt have had access to the cost of the PPI. Weve seen a number of 
very similar cases to this, and Santander has also said in this particular case that the cost of 
the PPI couldnt be provided at the point where Mr J chose to buy the cover. It told us the 
cost was only calculated once the loan had been approved and the interest rate decided.Santander said that at the point of making his choice, Mr J would have been able to 
access an online calculator from the on-line platform he was in at the time. It says 
consumers who used this facility were given an estimate at this point in the process, of what 
the loan repayment with and without PPI would have been.
However, I dont think Mr J would have had to use this calculator as it wasnt a 
mandatory part of the process and from what hes told us, I dont think he knew it was there. 
And  even if he had, it would have only given Mr J a rough idea of the PPIs actual cost 
which simply isn't good enough.
Santander has also said that Mr J would have been sent a welcome pack which included 
a letter giving more details of the PPI, including more precise information on the cost. It 
hasnt sent us a copy of the actual letter it sent to Mr J, but again, its provided an example of 
what  it says it wouldve looked like.
But even if Mr J did receive and read a letter like this, he wouldnt have seen it until after 
the sale and hed already 'agreed' to take out the PPI. I note the letter also wasnt clear 
about how to cancel the policy if hed changed his mind once hed seen the true cost.
So I think Santander failed in its duty to be clear. If Mr J had been given clear 
enough information about the cost of the policy, I dont think hed have taken it out. I say 
this because the cost of the PPI was £35 per month which seems high for the amount of 
loan repayment cover he had. When Ive considered this alongside what Mr J has told us 
about his circumstances and his existing means to make his repayments, I dont think hed 
have thought this policy was very good value for money. I don't think he'd have wanted the 
policy.
For these reasons, Im upholding Mr Js mis-sale complaint.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr J in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr J the amount he paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year ;
If Mr J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him. Santander can also deduct the money 
it has already paid Mr J for the commission it received.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Js complaint about the mis-sale and I direct 
Santander UK plc to pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman