DRN-1274973
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 2000 for use 
with an existing store card. Were now looking at this complaint against AXA France IARD 
(AXA). This is because Financial Insurance Company Limited has transferred responsibility 
for PPI complaints like this to AXA. Aside from which company were looking at this against, 
nothing else has changed. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA. 
Mrs F says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are limited documents available from the 
time of the sale that would shed light on the complaint. This sale happened over 19 years 
ago, so its maybe not surprising that such evidence isnt available. Where there isnt much 
evidence for me to consider, I need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities 
 that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a 
decision based on what I think most likely happened. 
I think its likely AXA made it clear Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it  although I can understand why she cant remember this over 19 years later. I say 
this because AXA has provided a copy of the credit agreement for the store card from 1998. 
To get the cover Mrs F had to tick for it. Mrs F did not tick for it on the store card form and 
the PPI was not applied to the store card. 
AXA has explained that the PPI was taken two years later in 2000 during a telephone call. 
Its maybe not surprising that AXA doesnt have the recording of that call or scripts from 
2000 as these events occurred many years ago. But it has provided a script of what the 
representatives were supposed to follow from 2004 during sales calls on the telephone and 
other scripts AXA has shown us from around that time. It seems likely that the script that 
applied to Mrs Fs telephone sale would have been similar in nature to these. From these 
scripts it seems most likely that Mrs F would have had been asked to agree to the PPI 
before it was added to her account. And because Mrs F had already had the store card for 
two years at that time, it seems likely that she would have known that this was something 
she wouldnt have had to agree to in order to get credit she already held. AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure she got the information she needed so she could decide if it was 
right for her.
The information AXA gave Mrs F about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But based on what Ive seen of Mrs Fs circumstances at the time it seems that she 
was eligible for the cover this policy could provide and it doesnt look like she was affected 
by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for her 
if something went wrong. 
And it appears that Mrs F would have benefited from the cover. I say this because Mrs F told 
us that whilst she had good sick pay initially, it dropped significantly after six months, such 
that she would have had to rely on the savings she had and any support her husband may 
have been in a position to offer her. The PPI would pay out in addition to whatever sick pay 
Mrs F had and it would have reduced her reliance on any other means she may have been 
able to rely on to repay the store card in that event. And it would have provided useful help if 
Mrs F lost her job. So, I think the PPI could be useful for her.
So having considered everything, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mrs F off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman