DRN-1680604
The complaint
Mr M had a motor insurance policy with Calpe Insurance Company Limited. He complains 
about what happened when he wanted to cancel it.  
What happened
Mr M contacted his broker (firm A) on 17 September 2019. Hed had the policy for just over 
half the year and assumed hed get a refund of just under half the sum hed paid for it. But 
firm A told him that if he cancelled the policy Calpe would refund only 10% of the premium  
and that firm A would make charges as well. Mr M confirmed that he wanted the policy to be 
cancelled that day. He also said he wanted to make a formal complaint about Calpe. 
Firm A told Mr M that its terms of business and the policy wording were available to him 
before he bought the policy. It said Calpe charged short-period cancellation rates - as set 
out in the documents - so if he wanted to cancel after six months on cover, only 10% of the 
premium would be returned. Firm A passed Mr Ms complaint about the short-period rates on 
to Calpe, but it later emerged that Calpe wasnt told that Mr M wanted to cancel his policy. 
In its response to Mr Ms complaint, Calpe said its cancellation charges reflected the risk it 
faced at each stage of the policys lifetime. It said he should contact the broker if he wanted 
to cancel  which Mr M had already done, unknown to Calpe.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. Initially, she upheld it. She said we 
thought if an insurer charged short-period rates on a policy it should be able to show why it 
believed the risk to it wasnt evenly spread during the policy year. She said as Calpe hadnt 
done that, she wasnt satisfied that charging the short-period rate was fair. 
At around the same time, Calpe provided evidence to us that the risk on the policy was 
weighted towards the earlier part of it. The investigator then issued a second view, not 
upholding Mr Ms complaint. She advised him that he could make a complaint about firm A if 
he thought it hadnt highlighted the short-period rates to him at the point of sale - and for not 
passing on to Calpe his wish to cancel the policy in September 2019.  
Mr M said Calpe had no risk to cover from the date he asked to cancel the policy, as hed 
sold his car, so it had taken his money for nothing. He didnt accept that short-period rates 
were fair. He pointed out a case referred to in one of our publications in 2006 that he thought 
was like his - and which wed upheld. He also said wed encouraged him to set up his 
complaint against the wrong business, so wed wasted his time.
  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr M first contacted this service, he said his complaint was that hed only get 10% of 
his premium back from his insurer  Calpe - on cancellation. He said firm A had told him that 
was because Calpe faced different levels of risk across the policys lifetime. He said he 
thought that was false, and that Calpe just didnt want to refund the premium due.
Based on what Mr M told us, the complaint he wanted us to consider was about Calpe, not 
about firm A. Mr M didnt know at that point that firm A apparently hadnt arranged for his 
policy to be cancelled. And he wasnt aware of the importance of an insurers short-term 
rates being highlighted at the point of sale - although firm A told Mr M it had done that. 
As the investigator pointed out, we think its reasonable for an insurer to charge short-term 
rates if it can show why that was justified. In this case, Calpe provided evidence to show that 
it faces more claims and higher costs in the earlier months of a policys life. That means 
most of the risk to it is concentrated on the first few months of the policy year. Thats why the 
premium is weighted towards the first part of the policy. Calpe agreed that the details it gave 
us could be shared with Mr M, to allow him to understand its position better. 
I agree with Mr M that the facts of the case he saw in one of our publications are like the 
facts of his case. But the significant difference between them is that the insurer in the 2016 
case couldnt justify charging short-period rates. It said it did so to discourage consumers 
from cancelling their policies early. We thought that was unfair, which is why we upheld the 
consumers complaint. But the general guidance given in our 2016 publication was that we 
recognise different approaches to refunds may sometimes be justified. It said an insurers 
risk and potential liability may be higher at the start of a policy than at the end  and if so, the 
premium calculation will reflect that. I think thats the situation in Mr Ms case. 
I dont think Mr M has shown that Calpes short-period rates were unfair, given the evidence 
it provided about the reason for them. I appreciate that Mr M may have acted differently had 
he been aware of the terms that would apply on cancellation. But Calpe wasnt involved in 
the sale of the policy. And Calpe isnt responsible for the policy not being cancelled in 
September 2019, as it didnt know Mr M wanted to cancel it.
I understand why Mr M is angry about what has happened. It remains open to him to contact 
firm A, put his concerns to it and consider its response. But for the reasons stated above, I 
cant uphold his complaint about Calpe. 
     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman