DRN-3043061
Complaint
 Ms P complains that Corporate & Professional Pensions Limited (C&PP) accepted 
business from unregulated financial advisors. Ms P says the business C&PP had dealings 
with, in relation to her pension, was selling personal pensions illegally, as it was not 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority. She also says C&PP later explained to her on 
the phone that it had suspicions about the scheme she invested in. But it went ahead and 
made the investment anyway.
Background
Ms P applied for a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with C&PP, after being contacted 
by a business called Portwood Financial Services Ltd. After Ms Ps existing personal 
pensions were switched to the SIPP, she invested the majority of the value (around 
£132,000) in an investment offered by Sustainable AgroEnergy (SA). Shortly after this,    
Ms P was paid around 25% of the amount she had invested by a business calling itself 
Liquid Financial Limited. I have set out further detail of the events and those involved below.  
C&PP
C&PP is a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) provider and administrator. At the time of 
the events in this complaint, C&PP was regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA), 
which later became the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). C&PP was authorised, in relation 
to SIPPs, to arrange (bring about) deals in investments, to deal in investments as principal, 
to establish, operate or wind up a pension scheme, and to make arrangements with a view 
to transactions in investments.
SA 
SA offered investments based on trees grown in Cambodia. The investments involved 
leasing plots of land, along with the trees planted on them, and receiving a return either as 
annual income payments or additional land plots.
In February 2012 the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) obtained company and freezing orders 
against SA, as part of a criminal investigation. The company entered receivership in March 
2012. The SFO later brought charges and three men (one of whom, Stuart John Stone, was 
the introducer to C&PP in this case) were found guilty and given prison sentences. The 
investigation focused on the sale and promotion of SAs products, including the one Ms P 
invested in. The SFO found that investors had been deliberately misled about the nature of 
the investment and a person responsible for sales (Stuart John Stone) had obtained 
commission rates of 65% of the amounts invested. It also noted that SA was effectively 
insolvent by mid-2011.
C&PP and SA
C&PP says it received an independent report which said the investment was suitable for 
inclusion in a SIPP. It has provided a copy of this report, which is dated 22 July 2011 and 
was produced by a business called Enhanced Support Solutions (ESS). 
C&PP has also sent us a copy of a due diligence report by Citadel Trustees Limited, which is 
dated August 2011. It has not said when it obtained a copy of this report.
Portwood Financial Services Ltd (also known as otheroptions.co.uk)
This was an unregulated business. It was incorporated in February 2006 and dissolved in 
April 2014. 
S J Stone Ltd 
This was another unregulated business, incorporated in October 2010, and dissolved in 
January 2017. Stuart John Stone was the sole director. 
Protea Wealth Management 
This was also an unregulated business. It was incorporated in November 2010 and 
dissolved March 2014.  Stuart John Stone was the co-director. C&PP has told us it was its 
understanding that, at the time of the events in this complaint, Protea had applied for 
authorisation from the FSA, and says Mr Stone gave it a reference number for an application 
he said had been made to the FSA. 
Liquid Financial Limited
Ms P received a letter with this company name in the letterhead, advising her that the 
switches from her existing pensions to the SIPP were to be shortly completed. However, the 
company registered with this name was not incorporated until 2012, and it deals in sports 
equipment. It therefore seems likely there was no such registered company at the time of the 
events this complaint is about. 
Stuart John Stone
As mentioned, Mr Stone was prosecuted, following an investigation by the Serious Fraud 
Office. In August 2013 it was announced he had been charged with various offences relating 
to fraud and bribery, and sentenced to imprisonment. 
In the decision I have referred to Stuart John Stone as Mr Stone and S J Stone Ltd as S J 
Stone
C&PP and Stuart John Stone 
C&PP initially told us: 
 It had no formal arrangement with Mr Stone (or the businesses he was associated 
with) as he was simply acting as an introducer of business whilst his FSA application 
(for authorisation) was being processed. It had face to face meetings with Mr Stone at its offices on 7 July 2011 and 25 July 
2011 and he provided personal identification and also demonstrated that he was a 
registered individual with the FSA under reference SJS01363, and had submitted an 
application to the FSA for the authorisation of Protea Wealth Management (Protea).
 Until Protea was authorised Mr Stone was not going to give any investment advice.
 It has no formal notes on the meetings between it and Mr Stone but it did visit SAs 
offices in London to verify its existence.
C&PP has told us it received 185 introductions from S J Stone in total. 
C&PP has more recently told us (via its then representative) that its relationship was only 
with S J Stone and:
 S J Stone acted as an introducer of investment clients to C&PP from 20 July 2011 to 
5 September 2011. 
 C&PP accepted no new introductions from S J Stone after 5 September 2011.
 No documented introducer agreement was put in place between S J Stone and 
C&PP until late October 2011 (i.e. after it stopped accepting business from S J 
Stone). 
 Mr Stone told it that he acquired clients through a website that helped connect 
potential investors interested in green biofuel with relevant investment opportunities. 
 At the time initial contact was made they already knew of Mr Stone by reputation and 
that he was regularly introducing clients to SIPP operators.
 On several occasions C&PP met Mr Stone face to face. Mr Stone was a director of 
Protea and told C&PP that it was his intention that Protea acquire advisory 
permissions from the FCA and then introduce clients to SIPP operators as a 
regulated advisor. 
 An enormous amount of detail was provided by Mr Stone about his various 
businesses and their plans and ambitions. Not only were there no red flags, but Mr 
Stone appeared to be a fit and proper person possessing business integrity and well 
aware of the regulatory environment in which he operated. 
 C&PP also knew Mr Stone had been an IFA in the past with Pengwern Wealth 
Management LLP
C&PP has provided us with copies of meeting notes and correspondence from late 
September and early October 2011. These notes detail undertakings and reassurances from 
SA and Mr Stone that no cash incentives or loans were being offered to those investing in 
SA. No contemporaneous evidence of its earlier interactions with Mr Stone and SA has been 
provided. 
The transaction 
Ms P says she was attracted to the idea of amalgamating her pensions as she didnt actually 
know who was looking after them and had no idea of how much they were worth. She 
thought to have them in one pension sounded like a good idea. Ms P says she was contacted by phone by Portwood Financial Services Ltd (Portwood). 
She spoke to a person there called Pauline who she says was very friendly and persuasive.   
Ms P says Pauline told her she had just put all her pensions together and earnt a 
commission for doing so. Pauline explained that changes from the government allowed 
people to move their private pensions where they liked and earn this commission. Ms P says 
she understood there were no terms - just a commission for investing her pensions with 
them. 
Ms P says she never met or spoke with Stuart Stone. She was instructed by Pauline at 
Portwood to contact her pension providers to find out how much was in each pension pot 
then email her with the amounts. Ms P says she then had hardly any communication with 
Pauline and was eventually contacted by a person who said she would come to her house, 
so she could sign the pension documents. Ms P says that when this person arrived she said 
she represented S J Stone. And the person explained Ms Ps pension would be invested to 
buy trees or land and trees in Cambodia for bio fuels. Ms P says she was concerned by this, 
but the person allayed her concerns and so she signed the documents. 
Ms P says she never heard from Pauline at Portwood again after this and eventually got a
brief letter from Liquid Financial saying the switches from her existing pensions to the SIPP 
would happen soon. 
Ms P says HMRC contacted her soon after her pensions were switched to the SIPP and that 
she received a huge tax bill, which she has been paying off for some time. She says she 
never questioned the payment she received at the time as she was told by Pauline at 
Portwood (and by a friend) that due to a change in government legislation people were 
entitled to move their pensions and even earn money from doing so.
C&PP has told us (through its then representative) that S J Stone contacted Ms P in around 
June 2011 and offered a pension review, where she was informed about the opportunity to 
invest in the SA investment. It says that Ms P was advised that in order to do so she would 
have to transfer her pensions to a SIPP. It also says Ms P signed the SIPP application form 
on 6 July 2011 and the transfer of her two Prudential pension plans worth £89.299.74 and 
£9,931 was completed on 26 July 2011, with her Phoenix Life pension fund of £33,501.24 
completing on 1 August 2011, and the investment into SA being made on 1 September 
2011.
C&PPs SIPP application form featured a number of declarations including:
I fully understand that in all the circumstances:
oI am solely responsible for all decisions relating to the purchase, retention and 
sale of the investments held in the Plan for my benefit; and
oI fully indemnify [C&PP] against any claim in respect of such decisions.
I will not require, nor attempt to require, the withdrawal of funds held to provide 
benefits for me under the Plan, or the income on those funds, other than in 
accordance with the rules of the Plan.  In the event that an unauthorised payment is 
made, I agree to [C&PP] deducting the amount of any scheme sanction or charge, or 
other charge levied by HMRC on [C&PP] from the funds held for me under the Plan 
in order to pay the charge to HMRC.  If there are insufficient funds held for me under 
the Plan, I agree to pay [C&PP] the amount by which the charge exceeds the value 
of my funds under the Plan.  
C&PP has provided the text of a letter it says it sent to all consumers who were introduced to 
it by S J Stone. The text is as follows:We are writing to provide you with copies of documentation that you should have received 
when you opened your SIPP account with Corporate & Professional and to ensure that you 
have our contact details.
As you are aware, a SIPP is a "Registered Pension Scheme" under the Finance Act 2004 
and, as such, is eligible for all current tax reliefs and exemptions available in the UK to 
Registered Pension Schemes. HMRC grant this status once a number of conditions have 
been met and they are responsible for monitoring the ongoing compliance of registered 
pension schemes.
It has been brought to our attention that some members have received commission 
payments as an incentive for making an investment in one of Sustainable Wealth Groups 
products. If you did receive a payment then you must declare this to HMRC as it will be 
taxable income and you may need to pay income tax on the payment.
There is also a possibility that this payment may be treated by HMRC as an "Unauthorised 
Payment" and again this may result in a substantial tax charge.
We were unaware that any payments were being made to members for making investments 
and so that we are aware of any payments that you may have received would you kindly 
notify us as soon as possible.
Your co-operation in this matter is greatly appreciated.
We look forward to hearing from you.
C&PP has not provided a copy of a letter using this text which was sent to Ms P, or any 
other evidence showing such a letter was sent to Ms P. CL&P has also not provided any 
general evidence on when this letter was sent to customers who had made SA investments 
in its SIPP, although it has recently reiterated the letter was sent. Ms P says she does not 
recall receiving such a letter. 
Our initial investigation of Ms Ps complaint
An adjudicator at this service investigated Ms Ps complaint initially, and first concluded it 
should be upheld. He then changed his view and concluded it should not be upheld. The file 
was closed but Ms P contacted us several times to dispute the adjudicators view. The file 
was later reopened, as a result of Ms Ps contacts. C&PP disputed the reopening of the file. 
This was, ultimately, considered by an ombudsman, who wrote to both parties to explain his 
view was that it was appropriate to reopen the file, and that the case was one we can and 
should consider. Ms Ps complaint was then allocated to an investigator for further 
consideration. 
Our investigators view
Our investigator concluded Ms Ps complaint should be upheld. He said it was fair and 
reasonable to conclude C&PP should not have accepted Ms Ps application. He said, in 
summary: 
C&PP had a responsibility to understand the way business was being referred to it. 
C&PP had no agreement in place with S J Stone so it wasnt clear to either party 
what the responsibilities of each were.C&PP did meet with the director of S J Stone, Mr Stone, but this was in his capacity 
as director of another firm, Protea Wealth Management (Protea). There doesnt 
appear to have been any discussions about S J Stones business model, for example 
how it would receive referrals of business or where these referrals would come from.
At the point of Ms Ps application C&PP knew that:
oConsumers were transferring their pensions and investing in this high risk 
investment without receiving any regulated advice.
oAll of the consumers S J Stone introduced invested their pensions into SA  an 
unregulated, high risk, esoteric and illiquid investment.
oS J Stone were introducing consumers at a frequency that should have given 
significant concern about their motivations and the quality of the service it was 
offering.
In light of the above, C&PP should have had cause for concern and ought to have 
been reasonably aware that the business being introduced by S J Stone posed a 
significant risk of consumer detriment.
If C&PP had drawn reasonable conclusions from the information it knew and the 
information it should have acquired about S J Stones business model, it wouldnt 
have accepted the application from it, as it posed a significant risk to customers.
C&PP has said that it relied on third party due diligence reports into SA from Citadel 
Trustees Limited and Enhance Solutions Limited. 
Citadel was an FCA regulated business. However, its report appears to have been 
instructed by SA and provided to C&PP by SA. It is not clear what, if any, 
independent due diligence was carried out by C&PP.
The Enhance Support Solutions Limited report identified the high risk, illiquid nature 
of the investment. It highlighted that this was an unregulated investment which meant 
that no investor protection would apply. It also recommended that where this 
investment was to be made via a SIPP a scheme member high risk/ illiquid 
disclaimer could be considered.
This alongside the issues identified with the introducer S J Stone shouldve alerted 
C&PP of a considerable risk of consumer detriment in accepting this business. 
At least some of the issues that led to the failure of the investment  or at least the 
significant risk of them occurring  would have been discoverable at the time of Ms 
Ps investment through sufficient due diligence.
C&PP should reasonably have concluded the SA investment wasnt acceptable for 
Ms Ps pension scheme (that is, it shouldnt have added it to the list of permitted 
investments for Ms Ps SIPP) because:
oThere was a risk the investment might be fraudulent  it wasnt clear how such 
high returns could be offered.
oThere was no independent verification that SAs assets were real and secure, or 
the investment operated as claimed.oThe land leases, if they existed, might have been difficult to independently value, 
both at the point of purchase and subsequently. It was also possible that there 
might be no market for them. So it was possible Ms P might not have been able 
to take benefits from her pension, or make changes to it, if she wanted to.
oThe investment in SA would allow Ms Ps SIPP to become a vehicle for a high-
risk and speculative investment that wasnt a secure asset and could have been 
a scam.
C&PP has pointed out that Ms P received a payment on completion of the transfer of 
her SIPP and investment in SA and argues that she shouldve known that this was 
inappropriate. C&PP say that this was the reason for Ms P agreeing to the transfer 
and investment and that had she informed C&PP of the payment it wouldve put a 
stop to the business. 
But Ms P has said that this was explained to her as an introducers fee and said that 
she had no reason to believe there was anything inappropriate about the payment. 
Given her lack of experience in pensions and investments this alone would not have 
caused her concern. 
C&PP has said it had no option but to make the investment the COBS rules obliged it 
to. But C&PP would only have got to the point of executing the specific instruction if it 
had accepted the application. If it hadnt accepted the application the question of it 
having to follow any specific instruction from Ms P would not have arisen.
He was satisfied that but for C&PPs failings, Ms P would never have moved to the 
C&PP SIPP in the first place and wouldve remained in her existing pensions. It was 
therefore fair to ask C&PP to compensate Ms P for her loss. 
C&PPs response to the investigators view
C&PP did not accept the investigators view. Its then representative responded on its behalf. 
I have considered its response in its entirety, but have only included a brief summary here: 
C&PP was under an obligation to follow the instructions of its 'execution-only' client, 
who accepted that the investment decision was hers and hers alone.
C&PP conducted due diligence into S J Stone to a satisfactory standard and the 
evidence before it entitled it to conclude that it was a bona fide introducer. Indeed, 
given the evidence that Stuart Stone is a fraudster, and would have evaded further 
probing, it is difficult to think what more C&PP could have done that would have 
made a difference to the outcome.
The SA investment, at the time it was assessed by C&PP, seemed to be genuine and 
legitimate and capable of being held in a SIPP tax wrapper. C&PP's duty did not 
extend beyond this.
Should it be found that more should have been done by C&PP, that would have
required it to have conversations with Ms P and persuade her to think again about 
the nature of the investment. It is very unlikely that, given the things it is reasonable 
to expect C&PP to have said to her, Ms P would have altered her course of conduct. 
As result any failure to say those things could not have caused Ms P's loss. Ms P 
was motivated by the prospect of receiving a cash payment of £30,000.The current law on this matter is to found in the Adams v Carey decision (this refers 
to the High Court judgement - Adams v Carey [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch)). We have a 
statutory duty to have regard to this.
In the context of the agreement it entered into with Ms P, C&PP also acted fairly and 
professionally toward her.
Ms Ps loss was caused not by the conduct of C&PP but by the fraudsters with whom 
she came into contact. It was open for the FCA to create rules which (for example) 
compelled SIPP operators to question clients execution-only decisions or which 
required them to refuse to follow instructions unless the client was given advice. But 
the FCA has not made such rules and on the facts of this case it is very unlikely that 
they would have made any difference to the outcome
Ms Ps response to the investigators view 
Ms P accepted the investigators view, and made no further comments. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, in which I concluded Ms Ps complaint should be upheld. I 
will only set out a very brief summary of my findings here, as I revisit them below. In 
summary, my provisional findings were:
To meet its regulatory obligations and standards of good practice C&PP should have 
carried out due diligence on SA and S J Stone, before deciding whether to accept or 
reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. 
Based on what C&PP either knew, or ought to have known had it carried out 
sufficient due diligence on SA and S J Stone, I thought it fair and reasonable to 
conclude C&PP should not have accepted Ms Ps application. 
I did not think it was fair and reasonable for C&PP to progress regardless, on the 
basis of declarations or disclaimers it had asked Ms P to sign. 
In the circumstances it was fair to ask C&PP to compensate Ms P for her losses  I 
was satisfied she would not have switched to the SIPP and/or made the SA 
investment had C&PP acted properly. 
C&PPs response to my provisional decision 
C&PP appointed a new representative, following my provisional decision. The representative 
said, in summary: 
On my general approach: 
Insufficient weight has been given to C&PPs disclaimers that they are not 
responsible for the investment decisions. The effect of my approach is to impose a 
duty of investigation as to the suitability of an investment although C&PP was not 
permitted to give any such advice. To seek to distinguish between acceptance of an application and advice on its 
suitability is artificial. Support for this can be found in Adams v Carey [2020] EWHC 
1229 (Ch) at [159].
The FCAs Principles for Business and COBS rules need to be addressed in the 
context of the specific area in which C&PP was acting. C&PP was not under a duty to 
advise and was under no duty not to do business with unregulated entities at the 
relevant time.
I should not consider regulatory standards which post-date the relevant events. If 
they represented good practice at the relevant time, they would have been reflected 
in the 2009 material. 
I have not given sufficient distinction to the difference between good and or best 
industry practice and the minimum regulatory standards expected of C&PP. To the 
extent that it is found that best practice, with the benefit of hindsight, was not 
followed, it does not follow that what happened fell below the minimum regulatory 
standards. Since there is no clear guidance, rule or regulation that specifies what 
was required of C&PP at the relevant time, the regulatory publications do not provide 
a basis for how C&PP is to be judged for the purposes of this complaint.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report refers to good practice which SIPP operators 
could consider. It does not provide that not following good practice is in of itself a 
breach of the minimum regulatory standard which amounts to a breach of the 
Principles. 
The report says there is an expectation that at least some controls and procedures 
are in place to identify financial crime. This is not the same as setting a minimum 
regulatory standard in terms of investigation and vetting. In so far as a minimum 
regulatory standard exists, it was met by the due diligence carried out by C&PP.  
Considering the decision in Adams, the regulatory publications cannot be used as a 
proper aid to statutory construction of the COBS Rules [162-163]. 
It is irrelevant whether the Principles were pleaded in Adams because the Principles 
could not themselves have formed a cause of action. Also it is an error in law to say 
because in Adams the Principles were not pleaded, the decision does not apply to 
the Principles. To seek to distinguish Adams v Carey in this manner is artificial and 
ignores the fact that the Principles are reflected in the COBS. 
What is said in Adams about a breach of duty under FSMA to comply with the 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook Rules (COBS), applies equally to the Principles.
Finding that C&PP ought to have identified a significant risk of consumer detriment 
arising from business brought about by S J Stone is an example of failing to apply the 
contractual context to the regulatory obligations on C&PP.  Insofar as there was a 
contractual relationship between C&PP and Ms P, Ms P adopted responsibility for the 
investment choices. The COBS obligations must be viewed accordingly.
The proper approach is to acknowledge that the advice to transfer Ms Ps pension 
benefits to the SIPP did not originate from C&PP, Ms P accepted she was solely 
responsible for the decisions relating to the SIPP, and C&PP carried out the 
appropriate level of due diligence at the time when considered against the correct 
level of regulatory standard. C&PP is being treated unduly harshly, and its activities only viewed through the lens 
of hindsight, when those who bear real culpability are elsewhere. This is particularly 
so given C&PPs extremely limited role as SIPP Operator and remuneration being 
limited to £350 + VAT.
On my finding that C&PP should not have accepted the application from S J Stone:
There were insufficient red flags to justify a refusal to accept the application.
C&PP met with Mr Stone face to face in his capacity as director of S J Stone. There 
was no reason to believe that Mr Stone was not a fit and proper person to be carrying 
out the work he did. C&PP was entitled to take comfort from the fact that Mr Stone 
had a historic entry on the FCA register.
I have given undue weight to whether S J Stone was carrying out regulated activities 
and what this meant for C&PP. As has been accepted in the provisional decision, 
C&PPs application form envisages that a financial advisor or investment manager 
would be involved. However, it was not C&PPs responsibility to ensure that this was 
the case or act as a regulator to S J Stone.
The provisional decision fails to consider the fact that there is no requirement that 
individuals are advised prior to making a SIPP investment. C&PPs Key Features 
Document dated 2011 recommended customers take advice from a qualified IFA 
before establishment of the SIPP. 
The fact that a specific investment was introduced is not, in and of itself, a red flag, 
especially given that a distribution agreement was in place with the relevant 
investment, and C&PP was aware of this at the relevant time. 
The fact that S J Stone introduced several clients is not, in and of itself, a red flag, 
especially given the existence of the distribution agreement. 
The fact C&PP sought undertakings and assurances as to cash payments being 
received by customers after accepting their applications does not demonstrate earlier 
knowledge of this on the part of C&PP. C&PP did not have concerns about S J Stone 
at the time of receiving the relevant applications.
On my findings on the investment due diligence: 
CP&P carried out the appropriate level of due diligence, when considered against the 
correct standards in force at the relevant time.  There was no breach of the relevant 
Principles. 
Citadel was an FCA authorised firm. Accordingly, it can be taken at its face to be 
adhering to the relevant regulatory standards which would prevent it acting purely in 
self-interest. Its involvement also provided comfort to C&PP. 
Before any applications to open SIPPs, C&PP had two face to face meetings with Mr 
Stone. One of those meetings included Gary West, a director of SAE. C&PP also 
visited the head office of SAE. Contact was also made with Citadels Managing 
Director.Comfort was also taken from the fact that one member, after making the investment, 
sought to take his tax free cash (as he had reached 55 years) and this was provided 
to him. This gave C&PP comfort that funds could be realised.
A letter from solicitors to HMRC confirms that the investment products fall within the 
permitted range applicable to SIPPs and that the Sustainable Growth Group is a 
strong and growing company. This letter post-dates the acceptance of Ms Ps 
applications, but it demonstrates that even with a solicitors examination taking place, 
red flags were not raised in respect of the investments.
The ESS report is sufficient to meet the minimum standards applicable to C&PP at 
the time and considering C&PPs other actions in respect of S J Stone.
Had C&PP sought to evaluate the investments track record and proposed revenue, 
the viability of the business model, applicable domestic laws, accounts and other 
matters, it would have strayed beyond its contractual role and regulatory 
authorisation
Any red flags that may have been present were insufficient to compel C&PP to refuse 
the application. Even if this meant C&PP should have warned Ms P as to it being a 
high-risk investment, it does not follow that the investment would not have been 
made anyway, and that the losses would not have followed. There is no real causal 
connection between any failings (which are not accepted) of C&PP, and the losses 
occasioned by others through fraud.
It is contradictory to find that C&PP should have concluded that the investment 
wasnt acceptable for the SIPP whilst conceding that C&PP did not need to assess 
the suitability of the investment.
The representative also made an additional point relating to the COBS rules:
COBS 11.2.19 at the relevant time said Whenever there is a specific instruction from 
the client, the firm must execute the order following the specific instruction. 
Therefore, once an application had been received which was in effect the instruction, 
C&PP was mandated to act accordingly.
On the actions of Ms P: 
In terms of the letter sent by C&PP to Ms P regarding a SIPP being a Registered 
Pension Scheme and no commission payments being permitted, whilst C&PP cannot 
provide specific evidence at this late stage that the letter was sent to Ms P, it 
confirms that it was sent to every customer following approval of the letter from 
HMRC.
It reiterates C&PPs concern that Ms P failed to disclose that she was receiving a 
payment in respect of the transaction. Ms P knew at the time of signing the 
application that she was to receive a payment. If C&PP had been alerted to this then 
it would have refused to process the application. So Ms Ps own actions have at the 
very least contributed towards the eventual losses.It would be wrong to not properly consider relevant aspects of Ms Ps behaviour, 
even if the application should not have been accepted by C&PP. Where a 
complainant has contributed to the losses and consequences it is fair and 
appropriate to take this into account. Ms Ps receiving a tax-free payment without 
C&PPs knowledge or involvement was wholly outside C&PPs control or influence. 
The situation is comparable to that of the Claimant in Adams in terms of causation 
and loss at [164], a point which received approval in the Court of Appeal judgment 
[2021] EWCA Civ 474 at [126]. 
C&PPs Key Features 2011 document clearly states We would like to make you 
aware that the Trustees of the C&P SIPP do not approve of members taking loans 
against their pension funds or receiving remuneration via incentives of any kind as 
this could lead to an unauthorized payments charge being levied on the pension 
funds by HMRC. 
Finally, the representative said no regard had been given to the unfair prejudice to C&PP 
resulting from Ms Ps complaint being reopened, and C&PPs legitimate expectation that the 
matter had been concluded in its favour.
Ms Ps response to my provisional decision 
Ms P accepted my provisional decision, and made no further comments. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time. 
As a preliminary point I should say that I note C&PPs point that it has suffered unfair 
prejudice as a result of us reopening Ms Ps complaint. Whether Ms Ps complaint should 
be reopened was considered in detail by another ombudsman who set out his reasons 
for deciding the complaint should be reopened in a letter to both parties. I agree with the 
decision of the other ombudsman and, as C&PP has not detailed what prejudice it feels it 
has suffered, and I have not seen any evidence of it having suffered prejudice, I do not 
think I need to say anything more on this point here. 
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision. 
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principle 2, 3 
and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise 
and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific 
rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The specific rules do 
not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific 
applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the 
specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be 
an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to 
reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would 
be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been 
produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty 
without having regard to the sort of high level principles which find expression in the 
Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.In (R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the decision of an 
ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The ombudsman 
considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. He concluded 
that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due diligence in 
respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it had done so, 
it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found Berkeley Burke had 
therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated its client fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly 
submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to cater for 
new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and 
indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-
based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to formulate a 
code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as 
those set out in Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBA judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The 
judgment of Jacobs J in the Berkeley Burke case upheld the lawfulness of the approach 
taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included the 
Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations that 
were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in Berkeley Burke. I also note 
C&PP acknowledges there were regulatory standards, and says it took these seriously. So 
I think it reasonable to say it would agree the Principles are a relevant consideration.  
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I have taken account of both 
these judgments when making this decision on Ms Ps case. 
I note that the Principles for Businesses did not form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment.  The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. 
C&PP says it is an error in law to say because in Adams the Principles were not pleaded, 
the decision in Adams does not apply to the Principles. It says that to seek to distinguish 
Adams in this manner is artificial and ignores the fact that the Principles are reflected in 
COBS.  And it adds that what is said in Adams about a breach of duty to comply with the 
COBS applies equally to the Principles. 
I remain of the view that neither of the judgments say anything about how the Principles 
apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint.  But, to be clear, I do not say this 
means Adams is not a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, I have taken account of 
both judgments when making this decision on Ms Ps case.I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case. 
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and the issues in Ms Ps complaint.  The breaches were summarised in 
paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he was 
not asked to consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept 
the store pods investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different.  
So I have considered COBS 2.1.1R - alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Ms Ps case, including C&PPs role in the transaction.  
However, I think it is important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.  
Regulatory publications 
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles:
 The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
 The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
 The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have set out below what I consider to be the key parts of the publications (although I have 
considered them in their entirety). 
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. 
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the member to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental 
to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their clients 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.
The later publications 
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns. 
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include: conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, 
or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed 
and the tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications 
and skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected parties and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm 
to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been 
approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:Correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors 
have received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit 
worthy etc)
C&PP says my provisional decision gave insufficient distinction to the difference between 
good and/or best industry practice and the minimum regulatory standards expected of 
C&PP. It says that to the extent that it is found that best practice was not followed, it does 
not follow that what happened fell below the minimum regulatory standards. It says there 
was no clear guidance, rule or regulation that specifies what was required of C&PP at the 
relevant time and so the regulatory publications do not provide a basis for how C&PP is to 
be judged for the purposes of this complaint. C&PP also says that, considering the decision 
in Adams, the regulatory publications cannot be used as a proper aid to statutory 
construction of the COBS Rules. 
I acknowledge that the 2009 report (and the 2012 report and the Dear CEO letter) are not 
formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, I remain of the view the 
fact that the reports and Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal (i.e. statutory) guidance 
does not mean their importance or relevance should be underestimated.
I also think it is important to again emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
I again highlight that this is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint 
and the judgments in Adams v Options SIPP.  
The publications provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and to produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, I 
remain satisfied these publications also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to 
good industry practice at the relevant time. I therefore remain satisfied it is appropriate to 
take them into account when considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint.  
C&PP says I should not consider regulatory standards which post-date the relevant events. 
It says if they represented good practice at the relevant time, they would have been reflected 
in the 2009 material. I note that HHJ Dight in the Adams case did not consider the 2012 thematic review, 2013 
SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance to his consideration 
of Mr Adams claim. But I remain of the view it does not follow that those publications are 
irrelevant to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I am required to take into account good industry practice at the relevant time  
unlike the court in the Adams case. And, as mentioned, the publications indicate what I 
consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant time.
I remain of the view the fact that the later publications (i.e. those other than the 2009 
Thematic Review Report), post-date the events that are the subject of this complaint does 
not mean that the examples of good industry practice they provide were not good practice at 
the time of the relevant events. It is clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports, (and 
the Dear CEO letter published in 2014), that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have 
incorporated the recommended good industry practices into the conduct of their business 
already. So, whilst the regulators comments suggest some industry participants 
understanding of how the standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed 
over time, it is clear the standards themselves had not changed.
The later publications were published after the events subject to this complaint, but the 
Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance 
with those Principles. 
I would also add that I remain of the view that even if I took the view that any publications or 
guidance that post-dated the events subject of this complaint do not help to clarify the type of 
good industry practice that existed at the relevant time (which I dont), that does not alter my 
view on what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. That is because I 
find that the 2009 report together with the Principles provide a very clear indication of what 
C&PP could and should have done to comply with its regulatory obligations that existed at 
the relevant time before accepting any introduction from S J Stone and/or allowing the SA 
investment into the SIPP. 
My view that the regulatory publications are a relevant consideration doesnt mean that in 
considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider C&PPs actions with these 
publications in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave non-exhaustive 
examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions given were the limit of 
what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what should 
be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances. 
Ultimately, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether C&PP complied with its 
regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, to 
take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay due 
regards to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the publications listed 
above to provide an indication of what C&PP could reasonably have done to comply with its 
regulatory obligations. 
I should again make it clear that I do not say the Principles (or the rules otherwise) or the 
publications obliged C&PP to ensure the investment in SA was suitable for Ms P. It is 
accepted C&PP was not required to give advice to Ms P, and could not give advice. And I 
accept the publications do not alter the meaning of, or the scope of, the Principles (or the 
rules otherwise). But they are evidence of what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the outcomes envisaged by the 
Principles (and, for that matter, COBS 2.1.1R). What did C&PPs obligations mean in practice?
In this case, the business C&PP was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. 
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
Referring to this, C&PP says the Principles and COBS rules need to be addressed in the 
context of the specific area in which it was acting. It says it was not under a duty to advise 
and was under no duty not to do business with unregulated entities at the relevant time.
As mentioned, I do not say that C&PP was under any obligation to advise Ms P on the SIPP 
and/or the underlying investment. To be clear, I also do not say that it was obliged to reject 
any application introduced by an unregulated business. I say only that to meet its regulatory 
obligations when operating its SIPP it had to give consideration to whether to accept or 
reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. 
  
C&PP says that to seek distinguish between acceptance of an application and advice on its 
suitability is artificial. In support of this point it refers me to paragraph 159 of Adams.
Moreover, to ascertain the suitability or otherwise of the investment for the claimant himself 
the defendant would have had to make detailed enquiries about the claimant's financial 
circumstances and, in my view, take advice on the value of the investment, evaluate the 
risks inherent in and lastly make a judgment call on the question of whether those risks were 
appropriate for the claimant in the light of the information which they had obtained about his 
financial situation and appetite for risk. That was not the role which the parties had agreed in 
the contract that the defendant would have. COBS Rule 2.1.1 cannot, in my view, be 
interpreted as requiring the defendant to take those steps.
In my view this simply says that the obligation to act in a clients best interests set by COBS 
2.1.1R does not oblige a firm to give advice on the suitability of an investment for an 
individual investor, where the firm was not contracted to provide advice. That is consistent 
with the approach I have taken to this complaint. In this section of the judgment, the alleged 
breach of COBS 2.1.1R under consideration was taking into the SIPP a manifestly 
unsuitable underlying investment, where suitability meant suitability for Mr Adams. The judge 
does not say the SIPP operator was not obliged to give any consideration to whether to 
accept or reject an application. Only that such consideration did not need to include the 
suitability of the intended investment for the individual investor. It does not follow from this, 
for example, that the SIPP operator was not obliged to consider whether the introducer might 
be breaching the General Prohibition, or whether there was a risk the investment might be 
fraudulent. And, in my view, refusing to accept an application in such circumstances, is not 
the same thing as advising Ms P on the merits of investing and/or switching to the SIPP  
there is a difference.  The regulatory publications provided some examples of good industry practice observed by 
the FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators including being satisfied that a 
particular introducer is appropriate to deal with and a particular investment is an appropriate 
one for a SIPP.
So I remain satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, when 
conducting its business, C&PP was required to consider whether to accept or reject 
particular referrals of business. I note this appears to be consistent with C&PPs own 
understanding at the time, as it did eventually stop accepting introductions from S J Stone 
and/or SA investments. 
C&PPs due diligence 
The due diligence on S J Stone 
As set out above, the 2009 Thematic Review Report deals specifically with the relationships 
between SIPP operators and introducers or intermediaries. And it gives non exhaustive 
examples of good practice. I remain of the view, to meet these standards, and its regulatory 
obligations, set by the Principles, C&PP ought to have identified the significant risk of 
consumer detriment arising from business brought about by an unregulated business which 
appeared to be specialising in one unusual unregulated investment (about which C&PP 
ought to have had concerns, as I have set out below), where no regulated financial advisor 
was involved. And so C&PP ought to have ensured it thought very carefully about accepting 
business from S J Stone Ltd. 
I think it is fair and reasonable to say such consideration should have involved C&PP getting 
a full understanding of the business model of the introducer, satisfying itself that the 
introducer would not be carrying out regulated activities, putting a clear agreement in place 
between it and the introducer and ensuring careful thought was given to the risk generally 
posed to consumers by the introducer.  
I remain of the view that if C&PP had carried out adequate due diligence on S J Stone, and 
drawn reasonable conclusions from this, it ought to have been aware of several points of 
concern and to have concluded it should not accept business from S J Stone. 
S J Stone was, essentially, Stuart Stone. It appears he sometimes used agents or 
representatives to help him out with applications  I note Ms P recalls meeting a woman. But 
it seems all of C&PPs initial interactions were with Mr Stone. 
C&PP says it checked the FSA Register and that Mr Stone appeared on there. But, although 
Mr Stone appeared on the Register, his entry was a historic one. He held the CF30 
controlled function from 23 Jun 2010 to 7 Mar 2011. So he had no regulatory status at the 
time he approached C&PP. Nor did S J Stone. Neither Mr Stone nor S J Stone were 
authorised persons. C&PP should therefore have considered whether to accept introductions 
of business from S J Stone on this basis. 
I note C&PP says it could take comfort from the fact Mr Stone had a historic entry on the 
FSA Register. C&PP may have taken some comfort from the fact Mr Stone had at one stage 
met the criteria to become authorised to carry out certain regulated activities by the FSA. 
But, if what Mr Stone/S J Stone was intending to do (or was doing) in relation to SA involved 
regulated activities, or appeared to be inconsistent with regulatory standards, I do not think 
C&PP could have taken any comfort from Mr Stones former authorised status. I accept C&PP was able to accept introductions from unregulated businesses. But I think the 
lack of any regulated status here was a serious concern, in the light of what S J Stone 
intended to do, and what C&PP would have seen it was doing. And that C&PP ought to have 
been aware, or was aware, of further significant points of concern. Given this, I do not think it 
was fair and reasonable for C&PP to accept Ms Ps application from S J Stone. I say this for 
a number of reasons. 
Regulated activities 
The available contemporaneous evidence indicates S J Stone was carrying out regulated 
activities. Rights under a personal pension scheme are a security. Under Article 25(1) 
Regulated Activity Order (RAO), making arrangements for another person to buy and sell 
these types of investments is a regulated activity. And under Article 25(2) RAO, making 
arrangements with a view to a person who participates in the arrangements buying and 
selling these types of investments is also a regulated activity.
In my view, S J Stone was carrying out regulated activities within Article 25 of the RAO  and 
this ought to have been clear to C&PP at the time. C&PP in fact appears to accept that 
arranging was taking place. But it says  in its response to another complaint about its 
acceptance of an SA investment from S J Stone - that its understanding was that 
unregulated people can make arrangements and that it checked this with its solicitor. It has 
not provided any detail of what it asked the solicitor, or what it received in reply. 
The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual perimeter says the following about Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at arrangements 
that would have the direct effect that a particular transaction is concluded (that is, 
arrangements that bring it about). 
It then says the following about Article 25(2): 
The activity of making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments is concerned 
with arrangements of an ongoing nature whose purpose is to facilitate the entering into of 
transactions by other parties. This activity has a potentially broad scope and typically applies 
in one of two scenarios. These are where a person provides arrangements of some kind: 
 
1. to enable or assist investors to deal with or through a particular firm (such as the 
arrangements made by introducers); or
2. to facilitate the entering into of transactions directly by the parties (such as 
multilateral trading facilities of any kind exchanges, clearing houses and service 
companies (for example, persons who provide communication facilities for the routing 
of orders or the negotiation of transactions)).
I think S J Stones activities here amounted to the regulated activity of making 
arrangements for the SIPP under one or both of the Article 25 provisions. We do not have 
the application documents for Ms P. But, in other complaints about S J Stone, it sent the 
application with a covering letter which says it attaches:
C&P SIPP Application Form
Transfer Form
Clydesdale Bank Form
Certified copies of Money Laundering
Transfer Letter/Forms
Platinum Agroforestry Programme - Application Form & Lease Agreement
Platinum Agroforestry Rental Agreement FormIn the other cases S J Stone also certified the money laundering documentation. It is also 
clear in those other cases that S J Stone corralled all the documentation required for things 
to proceed and sent this to C&PP. And also assisted with the completion of the forms. 
I think it likely this is also what happened here, based on what Ms P says. She says 
someone who said they were representing S J Stone came to her home, and asked her to 
sign the necessary documents. So S J Stone was making arrangements that would have the 
direct effect that a particular transaction is concluded, and also enabling or assisting Ms P to 
deal with or through a particular firm. This ought to have been clear to C&PP.  
C&PP should therefore have readily identified that S J Stone was carrying out regulated 
activities without authorisation from the regulator and so there was a clear risk of consumer 
detriment in accepting introductions in these circumstances.  
I note C&PP says  in its response to another complaint about its acceptance of an SA 
investment from S J Stone  that it did give some thought to this and concluded that 
arrangements did not need to be made by an authorised person. I think C&PP ought 
reasonably to have had a full understanding of the rules, and to have been able to ascertain 
when regulated activities were taking place and to have understood the limits on who could 
undertake regulated activities. In other words, C&PP ought to have known and understood 
the RAO and associated rules and guidance. It therefore ought to have been aware that the 
arrangements were activities specified at Article 25 RAO, and could therefore only be 
undertaken by an authorised person where they related to investments specified in the RAO 
(such as personal pensions, which include SIPPs. C&PP should also have known  or knew 
 that neither SJ Stone nor Mr Stone were an authorised person. 
I also think C&PP should have been alive to the risk that S J Stone might be giving advice on 
switches or transfers to its SIPP. It is difficult to see how otherwise people were ending up in 
its SIPP, and making the SA investment. I have not seen any evidence to show C&PP took 
steps to understand how the business was coming about. I note for example, C&PP says S J 
Stone said it would connect potential investors interested in green biofuel with relevant 
investment opportunities. It is not clear how that translated to applications to transfer or 
switch existing pension arrangements to a C&PP SIPP and invest in SA, without advice 
being given. 
C&PP also said, in submissions to us made via its previous representative that its 
understanding was S J Stone contacted Ms P and offered her a pension review, where she 
was informed about the opportunity to invest in the SA investment. And that Ms P was 
advised that in order to make the SA investment she would have to transfer her pensions to 
a SIPP. It is not clear whether it arrived at this understanding at the time or subsequently. 
But this shows on C&PPs own understanding S J Stone was giving advice  and I think it 
should have arrived at this understanding at the time. 
C&PP says I have given undue weight to whether S J Stone was carrying out regulated 
activities and what this meant for C&PP. It points out that its application form envisages that 
a financial advisor or investment manager would be involved and it was not its responsibility 
to ensure that this was the case or to act as a regulator to S J Stone.
I again note that C&PPs application appears to envisage applicants having a financial 
advisor or investment manager. As noted above, the application says:
I understand that it is the responsibility of my Financial Adviser to disclose to me all 
commission and Adviser Remuneration earned by my Adviser in respect of my SIPP. 
It also says:You will be responsible for your own investment decisions in association with your Financial 
Adviser and/or Fund Manager and you will agree to the services to be provided with your 
advisers
But I do not think it follows from this that C&PP could reasonably presume that advice had 
been given to Ms P by an authorised firm. In this case I have not seen any evidence to show 
C&PP could reasonably have concluded Ms P had received advice from an authorised firm. 
I do not say C&PP should have acted as a regulator of S J Stone but I do think it is fair and 
reasonable to say this was a significant risk factor or red flag. At the very least, it calls into 
question the motivations and competency of S J Stone Ltd.
C&PP says I have failed to consider that there is no requirement that individuals are advised 
prior to making a SIPP investment. I acknowledge that Ms P was not required to take advice. 
But, in the circumstances of this case, the absence of advice from an authorised firm and the 
risk that advice had been given by a firm which wasnt authorised were factors which C&PP 
should have considered when deciding whether to accept introductions from SJ Stone. 
All in all, I am satisfied it is fair and reasonable to attach significant weight to this point and to 
say that C&PP, had it acted in accordance with its regulatory obligations and the standards 
of good practice at the time, ought to have known  S J Stone was carrying out regulated 
activities relating to arranging, and ought to have known or suspected it was giving advice. 
And that it was not fair and reasonable for C&PP to accept Ms Ps application in such 
circumstances. 
The nature of the introductions from S J Stone 
C&PP says the fact that SJ Stone introduced several clients is not, in and of itself, a red flag. 
It is not clear why it has made this point.  In my provisional decision I said that although 
applications for SIPPs to facilitate the SA investment were brought to C&PP in large volumes 
at a high frequency by S J Stone it was not clear where Ms P sits in the overall volume  
particularly as C&PP has told us it began accepting applications from S J Stone on 20 July 
2011 but has also said Ms Ps application was made on 5 July 2011. I said I thought it fair to 
assume that C&PP had not seen a high number of applications by the time of Ms Ps 
application. C&PP has not commented on this or provided any further evidence. So I remain 
of this view this is a fair assumption. 
But I also remain of the view I do not think it follows that C&PP should not have seen the 
business S J Stone was introducing as anomalous. 
As Ive explained above, the 2009 report says that SIPP operators should, as an example of 
good practice, be:
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (ie the nature of the SIPP investment) and size 
of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and introduce clients to the 
firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
and
able to identify anomalous investments eg unusually small or large transactions or more 
esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with the intermediary that 
introduced the business.As mentioned, S J Stone was not regulated/authorised and acted as an introducer to one 
esoteric unregulated investment - SA. This should have been identified as anomalous 
because such investments are high risk and are therefore unlikely to be suitable for the vast 
majority of retail investors (such investments are only likely to be suitable, if at all, for a very 
small element of the investment portfolio of a sophisticated investor). 
C&PP has referred to the fact S J Stone had a distribution agreement with SA. But this does 
not persuade me to change my view that C&PP should have viewed this business as 
anomalous. If anything, the fact S J Stone, an unregulated business, had an agreement to 
distribute an investment and was clearly targeting pension investors further highlights why 
C&PP should have had cause for concern. I note, for example, the agreement envisages S J 
Stone giving advice: 
7.3 The Intermediary  shall be responsible for satisfying itself as to (i) the suitability of 
the Products having regard to the Client's financial position, understanding of the risks 
involved and investment objectives.
The agreement also confirms that S J Stone would be paid commission (although it is not 
clear at what rate that would be paid on the product Ms P invested in). This creates a 
potential conflict of interest where S J Stone is acting as the consumers agent (and likely 
advising them), but is also engaged by SA to sell its products. 
I think that an agreement for an unregulated business to distribute an investment, which 
envisages advice being given and confirms commission will be paid, and which was clearly 
being enacted by targeting pension investors, was cause for concern  a further red flag. 
As set out above, Principle 3 of the Principles says that a firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems. So, I think C&PP ought to have identified that introductions relating to one 
unregulated and esoteric investment from one unregulated introducer was unusual and, 
given the nature of the investment, involved a high risk of consumer detriment. 
So, if C&PP was meeting its regulatory obligations, it ought to have had adequate risk 
management controls in place to have allowed it to conclude very quickly that there was a 
high probability that much, if not all, of the business introduced by S J Stone carried with it a 
high risk of significant consumer detriment. I do not think it was fair and reasonable for 
C&PP to accept Ms Ps application in such circumstances. 
Proteas application for authorisation
I remain of the view that CP&Ps understanding that Mr Stones other business, Protea, was 
pending authorisation and S J Stone was effectively an interim solution, until the 
authorisation was confirmed (it seems it never was), was a further point of concern. I think 
this was highly unusual, and significant cause for concern. 
The use of an unregulated businesses as an interim measure, whilst awaiting regulatory 
authorisation, is not a step which could be reasonably be expected to be undertaken by a 
legitimate business. If it is anticipated that the business it is going to be undertaking requires 
regulatory authorisation then I think the only reasonable approach is for no such business to 
be conducted until that authorisation has been granted. Instead, C&PP appears to have 
agreed to accept business from S J Stone, pending the authorisation of Protea, on the basis 
of an unwritten assurance that S J Stone would not give advice (I note this assurance did not 
appear to extend to arrangements), which C&PP ought to have known or suspected was not 
being met. In my view it was not fair and reasonable for C&PP to accept Ms Ps application in such 
circumstances. Particularly given what I say above about regulated activities and the 
anomalous nature of the business introduced using this supposedly interim measure by the 
time of Ms Ps application. 
Cash payments 
C&PP says the fact it sought undertakings and assurances as to cash payments being 
received by customers after accepting their applications does not demonstrate earlier 
knowledge of this on its part. C&PP says it did not have concerns about this at the time of 
receiving Ms Ps application. 
I remain of the view it is likely that by a certain point C&PP knew, or suspected, cash 
payments were being made. It remains the case that I cannot think of any other reasonable 
explanation of why it would have asked for undertakings and assurances that cash 
payments would not be offered. 
C&PP stopped accepting introductions from S J Stone (or, it seems, any further SA 
investments) on 5 September - only a few days after it sent Ms Ps money to SA. I remain of 
the view that this suggests C&PP knew or suspected there was a problem with S J Stone 
and/or SA by this time. I am still not persuaded that C&PP was not aware of a problem or at 
least had cause to suspect there was a problem when it dealt with Ms Ps application. 
My conclusion on the due diligence on S J Stone 
Taken together or individually I think these issues ought to have indicated a real and serious 
possibility of detriment to consumers. I think C&PP should have refused to accept Ms Ps 
SIPP application from S J Stone irrespective of any documents or disclaimers that Ms P had 
signed (Ill discuss this further below). By failing to do so, I dont think C&PP met its 
regulatory obligation to treat Ms P fairly. 
The due diligence on SA 
As I have set out above, I think that if due diligence which was consistent with C&PPs 
regulatory obligations and the standards of good practice at the time had been carried out on 
S J Stone, that ought to have led to the conclusion C&PP should not accept applications 
from S J Stone at all. So it doesnt necessarily follow that the due diligence on the SA 
investment needs to be considered. I have however, for completeness, reconsidered all of 
C&PPs due diligence  and have therefore considered what it did and ought to have done 
and concluded in relation to the SA investment. 
When setting out what due diligence it carried out on SA, C&PP has referred to the ESS 
report, dated 12 July 2011 and the Citadel Trustees report, dated August 2011. It has also 
referred to visiting SAs offices and to SA being approved by solicitors (it has referred to a 
letter from solicitors to HMRC confirming that the investment products fall within the 
permitted range applicable to SIPPs and that the Sustainable Growth Group is a strong and 
growing company).
The ESS report appears to post-date Ms Ps application. But I remain of the view it was of 
limited value, in any event. I note C&PP says the report is sufficient to meet the minimum standards applicable at the 
time. But the report appears only to be a summary of SAs marketing and application 
material. It says it is based on a review of the application/terms and conditions, the rental 
agreement and a fact sheet. So there does not appear to have been any independent 
checking of the investment. The report also says its objective is to identify whether the 
investment is likely to be acceptable based on HMRC rules. The report says its likely that 
the investment will be acceptable to HMRC, and gives the caveat that the authors are not 
tax experts. 
So it remains my view that if C&PP relied on this report in any significant way to demonstrate 
that it had undertaken adequate due diligence on SA, C&PP didnt meet its regulatory 
obligations and didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms P. 
C&PP says Citadel Trustees was an FCA authorised firm and accordingly can be taken to be 
adhering to the relevant regulatory standards which would prevent it acting purely in self-
interest, and comfort could be taken from its involvement. 
Insofar as this point relates to the Citadel Trustees report C&PP has provided, this report is 
only dated August 2011. So it is not clear when C&PP first saw this. But it clearly post-
dates C&PPs decision to accept SA investments, and post-dates Ms Ps application. 
Furthermore, I have still seen no contemporaneous evidence from C&PP such as internal 
memos, meeting notes, emails etc making any reference to this report. I also note the report 
expressly states it is not to be relied on by third parties and is no substitute for independent 
advice. The report carries a disclaimer on each page which says:
This document is for internal use only. If shown to third parties it should be made clear that 
the content is for information purposes only and should not be relied upon or substituted for 
independent legal advice. 
And the chairman of Citadel said, in May 2012, following reports about the failure of SA:
Citadel has never held itself out as being an expert in the field of sustainable energy projects 
and neither has it confirmed at any time that any firm, company or individual is entitled to rely 
on the due diligence information provided.
So I remain of this view it is unlikely the report would have been provided to C&PP to form a 
basis for due diligence on SA. I am not therefore persuaded C&PP had regard to the Citadel 
report at any time before it sent Ms Ps money to SA.  Rather, I think it is likely something it 
obtained later, once the issues with SA were known. And, in any event, if C&PP did see this 
report at any time before sending Ms Ps money to SA, I am not persuaded it could 
reasonably have placed much reliance on it, given the clear disclaimers it contained. 
However, for completeness, I have reconsidered what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, if C&PP could reasonably have relied on the report (and did so). 
The report began with a summary of how the investment purported to work, provided by its 
promoter. In this respect, the report is similar to the ESS report. 
The report then contains four sections. 
Section 1 is titled summary conclusions, which are stated as follows:
1.1 SWI have several nursery and plantation assets in Cambodia that are professionally 
managed and the company appears to enjoy good relations with the local community.1.2 The nurseries are well organized and display a disciplined approach to seedling 
production.
1.3 Local employees appear satisfied with their working conditions and local community 
leaders are enthusiastic about the opportunity for local farmers to participate in Jatropha 
grow out.
Section 2 is titled introduction, and says:  
2.1 [name 1] of the Citadel office in Bangkok flew to Phnom Phen to undertake a due 
diligence visit to a small portion of the 776,629.6 (still to be verified)  hectares of land in the 
Kingdom of Cambodia that SWI has arranged or will arrange for Citadel to take into Trust by 
means of a lease agreement between Citadel's UK non trading Special Purpose Vehicle 
(owning Company) and several cooperatives of Cambodian farmers who own the land.
2.2 From Phnom Penh, [name 2] of International Green Energy Co Ltd, which is involved in 
the management of some of the plots (IGE), drove [name 1] to Banteay Meanchey which is 6 
hours from Phnom Phen in the Northwest of Cambodia. [names 1 and 2] were accompanied 
on the trip by [name 3], the independent lawyer appointed by Citadel to carry out due 
diligence checks on the above mentioned land in Cambodia.
2.3 There were four nursery visits in total. The first nursery was at Chan Noun CCF Pie, 
situated at Chak Drey Village, Phnom Proek District, Battambang Province and measured 
5.5 hectares. The second was at King Kong Nursery No 3. CCF Pie situated at Bak 
Chunchean Village, Bakan District, Pursat Province and measured 7 hectares. The third is a  
nursery under the supervision of [name of an army general] situated  at Ta Ben Village, Siar 
Kram  District,  Banteay  Meanchey province measuring 5.7 hectares and the  final  nursery  
is  at the Headquarters Of SAE Pie and Training Center for all Organizations and 
Communities and measures 7.5 hectares.
2.4 Banteay Meanchey and Battambang are part of the Tonie Sap Biosphere Reserve 
established in 1997 as an area devoted to conservation, the development of sustainable 
projects and with a mandate to develop demonstration projects relevant to conservation and 
sustainable development.
2.5 SAE have arranged the consolidation of approximately 6000ha of land in the Banteay 
Meanchey province to be used for Jatropha plantations.  So far SAE advises that 1000ha 
have been planted.
Section 3 was titled observations. It features a few photos of Jatropha seeds, saplings and 
young trees, and makes some general points about the importance of a water supply to the 
plants and it being possible to use the seeds as animal feed. 
Finally, section 4 was titled economic development and made some general observations 
about the potential importance of plantations to the local economy.
The report also included some legal opinions  from a UK counsel about the status of the 
investment (this concludes it is not a collective investment scheme) and from a Cambodian 
lawyer who had been engaged by SA and Citadel, which says Carbon Credited Farming 
(CCF Plc a former name of SA) has the right to enter a lease agreement with Citadel over 
some land in Cambodia and that the agreement complies with Cambodian laws. On the face of it, these elements of the report go some way towards meeting the standards 
of good practice and regulatory obligations at the time. But I do not think that, overall, the 
report, in itself, was sufficient to meet these standards and obligations. And I think, in any 
event  particularly when it is considered alongside everything else  the contents of the 
report ought to have given C&PP cause for concern, rather than it offering a basis for C&PP 
to conclude the SA investment was one it should accept into its SIPP. 
I say this because, whilst the report involved some checking, it is not independent  the 
Cambodian lawyer was working for both Citadel and SA, and much of the report was based 
on what SA had told Citadel (rather than any independent checks). And C&PP, if it 
considered the report, ought to have had number of further concerns. In summary:
 
The opinion from the Cambodian lawyer says CCF Plc has the right to enter into a 
lease agreement with a firm called Citadel Trustees CC Ltd for 6,079 hectares of land 
situated at Banteay Meanchey Province. The opinion is not entirely clear, but it 
suggests this right arises not from a land concession with the government of 
Cambodia but through CCF Plc having established a Cambodian company called 
International Green Energy (which is referred to in section 2 of the report only as 
involved in the management of some of the plots) which CCF PLC owned 95% of 
the shares of. The final part of the opinion says the registration of farming land 
belonging to the people was only required to be at village-commune or village-
commune-district and the lease would be registered on this basis, with Citadel being 
notified if a third party attempts to secure the land. 
This seems to me to be an opaque and complex structure that cannot be readily 
understood by anyone who is not an expert in Cambodian law and is not easily 
reconciled with the other available information about the investment. And it is not at 
all clear from the opinion how Ms Ps SIPP would acquire title to land in Cambodia 
(or if it would, ultimately, acquire title at all). 
The due diligence visits appear to have been to nurseries, rather than operating 
plantations, so do little to demonstrate SA was operating as claimed  only that it had 
grown a relatively small number of saplings and young trees. 
These visits appear to have involved only around 25 hectares out of a claimed 
776,629 hectares leased by SA. It is not clear if all these hectares were intended for 
initial investments or later plantations (I note the capital builder investment offered to 
pay high returns in the form of additional plots) and if only the 6,079 hectares referred 
to in the legal opinion was intended for initial investment. But, either way, it is still 
only a very small portion of the overall land. 
The report says these visits took place from 7 to 8 April 2010  some 16 months prior 
to the report being created. 
If land other than the nurseries was visited (and this is not clear from the report), 
there is nothing to say any of that land was being operated as plantations at the time. 
There is nothing to show SA was harvesting crops, and generating returns. The report says SA had advised it had 1,000 hectares of actual plantations. There 
appears to have been no independent check of this (and I note it was later reported 
that in fact only around 300 hectares had been planted by the time SA went into 
receivership in 2012, and the plantations were not capable of generating returns for 
investors). But, taken at face value, this suggests that as of August 2011 plantations 
had been created on only a small portion of the land SA had leased.  It was therefore 
possible there was not sufficient operating plantations to support the number of 
investments being made. 
Only a small portion of the land had been transferred to Citadel, to be put in trust. 
Only a vague statement is made about the remainder - the report only says that the 
process will be undertaken in stages and is already underway. So it is not clear that 
Citadel had sufficient title to the leases that formed the investment Ms P made, at the 
time of the investment being made. I also note Ms Ps lease and rental agreements 
dont specify which plots she was acquiring or where the plots were located. 
The report refers to an option to sell back the lease at the original purchase price in 
years 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 (assumedly whilst retaining any returns earned). But it is 
not clear how this works in practice or how it would be funded. This buy back option 
was likely be of very limited value, and there was a risk it was misleading investors 
about the level of risk associated with the investment. 
C&PP has said that, when it visited SAs offices, it received information about the proposed 
SA investments and it noticed that Citadel was involved in the project and checking 
allocations etc. . C&PP has clarified that what it has earlier described as SA being 
approved by solicitors relates to a letter dated 27 October 2011 from a firm of solicitors to 
HMRC. C&PP has highlighted the following conclusion drawn by the solicitors:
It was clear from our meeting with Mr West (the Chief Operating Officer of SA) that the 
Sustainable Growth Group is a strong and growing company within the world of ecology 
based investments. We are also satisfied that the investment products on offer by 
Sustainable AgroEnergy fall within the permitted range applicable to SIPP's under the 
HMRC Manual.
The letter confirmed the review the solicitors had undertaken involved: 
1. Reviewing the documentation that C & P SIPP requested and reviewed as 
part of their due diligence process prior to their agreement to such being 
purchased by reference to the SIPP.
2. Conducting research on Sustainable AgroEnergy.
3. Meeting with Gary West, the Chief Operating Officer of Sustainable AgroEnergy.
4. Discussing the investment with Stuart Stone of Stuart Stone Limited, the main 
introducer of members wishing to invest in Sustainable AgroEnergy.
C&PP says that although this letter post-dates the acceptance of Ms Ps application it 
demonstrates that even with a solicitors examination taking place, red flags were not raised 
in respect of the investments.I think at this point it is worth again noting that C&PP accepted no new introductions from S J 
Stone after 5 September 2011. So, although C&PP has offered no evidence of this point 
(other than to say it wasnt aware cash payments were being made), in my view it is likely it 
was aware of what, in its view, were red flags as it is difficult to see why otherwise it did not 
accept applications despite the apparent assurance offered by the solicitors letter. This does 
not support its point that no red flags were discoverable, even with the involvement of a 
solicitor. 
In any event, I am not persuaded the solicitors letter is sufficient evidence to show that 
adequate due diligence at the outset would have shown there was no significant cause for 
concern. For the reasons given, I think a number of points of concern ought to have been 
identified. And even if none of these points, in itself, was a red flag I think cumulatively they 
ought to have given significant cause for concern  particularly when considered alongside 
what was known or ought to have been known about S J Stone. 
C&PP says comfort was taken from the fact that one member, after making the investment, 
sought to take his tax free cash and as this was provided to him. It is not clear whether it pre 
or post dates Ms Ps application. Setting that aside, I do not think C&PP could take much 
comfort from one investor being able to withdraw around a quarter of the amount they 
invested.. In any event, any comfort it could reasonably have taken from this was not 
sufficient to override all the concerns I have outlined. 
I am also not persuaded that any comfort C&PP could have taken from Citadels regulated 
status overrides all the points of concern. 
In short, based on the current evidence, I remain unpersuaded C&PP met its regulatory 
obligations by carrying out sufficient due diligence on SA and I think it therefore did not act 
fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms P, as it did not carry out sufficient due diligence 
on SA. Furthermore, I am satisfied that if C&PP did have regard to the Citadel report at the 
relevant time, it ought to have identified a number of concerns about the SA investment. 
Had sufficient due diligence been done (as I consider it ought to have been, had C&PP been 
acting fairly and reasonably towards Ms P), C&PP should have identified a number of points 
of concern in relation to the SA investment, in addition to those which Ive listed above which 
should have been apparent to it if it read Citadels report. For example: 
The investment purported to offer a very high return through oil produced by jatropha 
trees. 
There appears to be no basis for the high projected return. I dont expect C&PP to 
have been able to say the investment would be successful. But a high projected 
return without any apparent basis should have given C&PP cause to question the 
investments credibility. 
SA had no track record, and jatropha plants hadnt previously been used to make 
money on the scale proposed.
There was information available which called into question the viability of the 
proposed business model (particularly in light of the very high projected returns). 
There was negative commentary in the public domain about investments that 
purported to offer high returns through investment in jatropha plants. Some of these 
articles warned investors against being seduced by high returns that might not be 
achievable, and questioned whether it was possible to make money from growing 
jatropha at all.The SFO issued a report in early 2012. It noted the auditor of SA had warned in June 
2011 of financial difficulties caused by the failure to plant sufficient jatropha trees to 
have any prospect of generating returns for investors. C&PP could have taken the 
auditors comments into account. 
It isnt clear how a lease of a parcel of land in Cambodia could be valued or realised. 
How would an investor be able to take benefits from their pension? And what would 
happen if they died? 
If C&PP had considered these points, alongside the other issues I have highlighted, it should 
reasonably have concluded the SA investment wasnt acceptable for its SIPPs (that is, it 
shouldnt have added it to the list of permitted investments for its SIPP) because: 
There was a risk the investment might be fraudulent  it wasnt clear how such high 
returns could be offered.
The land leases, if they existed, might have been difficult to independently value, 
both at point of purchase and subsequently. It was also possible that there might be 
no market in them. So it was possible that an investor might not have been able to 
take benefits from their pension, or make changes to it, if they wanted to. 
The investment in SA would allow C&PPs clients SIPPs to become a vehicle for a 
high-risk and speculative investment that wasnt a secure asset, and could have 
been a scam. 
The investments failure was confirmed when SAs companies were put into receivership in 
early 2012. The management receivers letter sent to investors on 27 April 2012 said: 
neither the (SA) Companies nor any other Sustainable Group entity had any title 
whatsoever to the Cambodian land. Nor was there any way in which the business 
model on which the project was built could operate.
most of the site was unsuitable for jatropha products and very considerable work 
needed to be undertaken on infrastructure, drainage and irrigation which would be 
very expensive. No income from the sale of the crops grown in Cambodia had been 
recorded in Sustainable Agroenergy PLCs records to date. The guaranteed returns 
apparently offered to UK investors were illusory.
And the letter concluded: 
 the land at present is entirely unsuitable for palm oil production and requires very 
substantial investment before any significant returns can be made from agriculture. 
Of particular concern is that the land is unsuitable for the growing of jatropha. All that 
the Companies own in Cambodia are some plant and equipment of little, if any, 
realisable value.
I think this emphasises the importance of sufficient due diligence and the inadequacy of the 
Citadel report. Citadel itself accepted they were not an expert in sustainable energy products 
and specifically said that no firm company or individual was entitled to rely on the due 
diligence information provided. If despite what Citadel have said, if C&PPs position is that they had regard to the report 
prior to accepting Ms Ps application and are relying on it to demonstrate that they undertook 
adequate due diligence on SA, then for the reasons Ive set out above I do not agree. There 
were enough red flags and ambiguities in the report that meant C&PP should have had 
significant concerns about accepting the investment. To my mind it certainly should not have 
accepted SA into the SIPP without conducting further due diligence in order to address the 
clear questions that remained outstanding.
Overall, based on the available evidence at the time I think there were sufficient points of 
concern associated with the investment, which ought to have been apparent, based on what 
was known by C&PP and what it ought to have known had sufficient due diligence been 
undertaken, to reasonably lead it to conclude there was a significant risk of consumer 
detriment. 
I note C&PP says it is contradictory to find that C&PP should have concluded that the 
investment wasnt acceptable for the SIPP whilst conceding that C&PP did not need to 
assess the suitability of the investment. It adds that had it sought to evaluate the 
investments track record and proposed revenue, the viability of the business model, 
applicable domestic laws, accounts and other matters, it would have strayed beyond its 
contractual role and regulatory authorisation.
In response to this I think I can only reiterate what I say earlier in this decision. I am satisfied 
there is a difference between accepting or rejecting a particular investment for a SIPP and 
advising on its suitability for the individual investor. And I accept C&PP was not expected to, 
and was unable to, give advice to Ms P on the suitability of the SIPP and/or SA investment 
for her personally. 
To be clear, Im not making a finding that C&PP should have assessed the suitability of the 
SA investment for Ms P. I accept C&PP had no obligation to give advice to Ms P, or to 
ensure otherwise the suitability of an investment for her. My finding isnt that C&PP should 
have concluded that Ms P wasnt a candidate for high-risk investment. Its that C&PP should 
have concluded the investment wasnt acceptable for its SIPP and thereby failed to treat Ms 
P fairly or act with due skill, care and diligence when accepting the investment.  
I am satisfied C&PP could have identified the concerns I have mentioned, and ought to have 
drawn the conclusion I have set out, based on what was known at the time. I do not say that 
C&PP should have known SA was a fraud at the time  only that it ought to have identified 
significant points of concern, and these ought to have led it to conclude it should not accept 
SA investments. It ought to have known there was a high risk of consumer detriment.
C&PP says that any red flags that may have been present were insufficient to compel it to 
refuse the application. It is surprising that C&PPs view is that something it ought to have 
considered a red flag  a warning of a problem or danger  did not compel it to refuse Ms Ps 
application. But, setting that aside, for the reasons I have set out, I am satisfied the concerns 
C&PP should have identified should have led it to conclude it should not accept the SA 
investment. 
In any event, if it is not accepted that C&PP should not have allowed SA into its SIPP at all, I 
think the factors I have listed are still reasons why C&PP should have given particularly 
careful thought to accepting the investment. The nature of the investment is something that 
should have been at the forefront of its mind when considering whether or not to accept 
introductions of business from S J Stone. COBS 11.2.19R
I note that C&PP has made the point that COBS 11.2.19R obliged it to execute investment 
instructions. It effectively says that once the SIPP has been established, it is required to 
execute the specific instructions of its client. 
It is my view that the crux of the issue in this complaint is whether C&PP should have 
accepted the SIPP application and established Ms Ps SIPP in the first place. In any event, 
C&PPs argument about having to execute the transaction as a result of COBS 11.2.19R 
was considered and rejected by the judge in BBSAL. In that case Jacobs J said, at [122]:  
The heading to COBS 11.2.1R shows that it is concerned with the manner in which orders 
are to be executed: i.e. on terms most favourable to the client. This is consistent with the 
heading to COBS 11.2 as a whole, namely: Best execution. The text of COBS 11.2.1R is to 
the same effect. The expression when executing orders indicates that it is looking at the 
moment when the firm comes to execute the order, and the way in which the firm must then 
conduct itself. It is concerned with the mechanics of execution; a conclusion reached, albeit 
in a different context, in Bailey & Anr v Barclays Bank [2014] EWHC 2882 (QB), paras [34]  
[35]. It is not addressing an anterior question, namely whether a particular order should be 
executed at all. I agree with the FCAs submission that COBS 11.2 is a section of the 
Handbook concerned with the method of execution of client orders, and is designed to 
achieve a high quality of execution. It presupposes that there is an order being executed, 
and refers to the factors that must be taken into account when deciding how best to execute 
the order. It has nothing to do with the question of whether or not the order should be 
accepted in the first place.
I therefore dont think that C&PPs argument on this point is relevant to its obligations under 
the Principles (and the rules otherwise) to decide whether or not to accept an application to 
open a SIPP in the first place or to execute the instruction to make the SA investment. 
In conclusion 
After considering these points, I dont regard it as fair and reasonable to conclude that C&PP 
acted with due skill, care and diligence, or treated Ms P fairly by accepting the investment in 
SA or accepting the application from S J Stone Ltd. C&PP didnt meet its regulatory 
obligations or the standards of good industry practice at the time, and it allowed Ms Ps 
funds to be put at significant risk as a result. 
Did C&PP act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Ms Ps instructions?
C&PP says I gave insufficient weight to its disclaimers that they are not responsible for the 
investment decisions when reaching my provisional decision, and repeats that Ms P failed to 
disclose that she was receiving a payment in respect of the transaction. It says if it had been 
alerted to this then it would have refused to process the application. 
C&PP says the situation is comparable to that in Adams at [164]:The claimant accepted that he had been warned, more than once, that the underlying 
investment was high risks (sic) and speculative before committing himself to the SIPP. He 
understood, as I have found, the limited role which the defendant was to perform and he 
agreed to contract with them on that basis. Thus in my view the defendant complied with the 
best interests rule. It was not part of their duty, in my view, to refuse to accept this particular 
underlying investment at the stage when the claimant asked to include it within a SIPP. He 
also accepted that he nevertheless went ahead with the investment because he wanted to 
extract cash from his pension fund. There is no basis on which, even if there had been a 
breach of duty by the defendant, that I could have come to the conclusion that it was 
causative of loss, the claimant did not suffer loss as a result of the alleged contravention of 
the rule but because of his motivation in entering into the transaction.
C&PP says this point received approval in the Court of Appeal judgment [2021] EWCA Civ 
474 at [126].
Mr Green argued that there is no justification for Mr Adams being permitted at this stage to 
advance a fundamentally different and new case, particularly since it would necessitate 
further factual and expert evidence. I agree. It follows that the appeal in respect of the COBS 
Claim must fail. I would add that Mr Adams might anyway have struggled to overcome the 
Judges finding that any breach of duty was not causative of loss.
I note what C&PP says. But, in my view, the facts here are very different. I have not seen 
sufficient evidence to show Ms P understood she was making a high risk investment and 
was prepared to do this in order to secure a cash payment. Ms P was not asked here to 
make the sort of declarations Mr Adams was asked to make. C&PPs declarations did not 
include any risk warnings. 
In any event, the Court of Appeal was aware of all the points about Mr Adams conduct - see 
[113] of the judgment  but still exercised its discretion under s28 of FSMA in favour of Mr 
Adams. In particular, the Court of Appeal noted, at [115] i):
A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while consumers 
can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own decisions, there is a need 
for regulation, among other things to safeguard consumers from their own folly. That much 
reduces the force of Mr Greens contentions that Mr Adams caused his own losses and 
misled Carey;
I remain of the view, for the reasons given, C&PP simply should have refused to accept the 
SA investment into its SIPP. So things should not have got beyond that. Had C&PP acted in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations and best practice, it is fair and reasonable in my 
view to conclude that it should not have accepted Ms Ps application to open a SIPP. 
My remit is, of course, to make a decision on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. And my view is that its fair and reasonable to say that just asking Ms P to 
sign declarations was not an effective way for C&PP to meet its regulatory obligations to 
treat her fairly, given the concerns C&PP ought to have had about her introduction and the 
investment.  
Having identified a risk, it is my view that C&PP should have refused to accept business 
from S J Stone and the investment in SA  not put in place a process asking customers to 
sign a declaration in an attempt to absolve itself of responsibility. I dont think the declaration 
Ms P signed meant that C&PP could ignore its duty to treat her fairly. 
In any event, I do not consider the declaration Ms P was asked to give to have been clear. 
The part relating to cash payments said: I will not require, nor attempt to require, the withdrawal of funds held to provide benefits for 
me under the Plan, or the income on those funds, other than in accordance with the rules of 
the Plan
Ms P understood she was receiving 25% introducers commission. I think that was very 
unusual and a cause for concern, but I also think Ms P was naive and inexperienced in 
investment matters  that is clear from the detail of her recollections of events. And, as the 
cash that was paid to Ms P did not come directly out of her SIPP. Ms P would not therefore 
have necessarily understood she was engaged in the withdrawal of fundsother than in 
accordance with the rules of the Plan as she was asked to declare. In other words, I do not 
think there is sufficient evidence to show Ms P made a conscious effort to deceive C&PP 
when making the declaration.  
I note C&PP has referred to its Key Features Document, which says:
We would like to make you aware that the Trustees of the C&P SIPP do not approve of 
members taking loans against their pension funds or receiving remuneration via incentives 
of any kind as this could lead to an unauthorized payments charge being levied on the 
pension funds by HMRC.  
I think receiving remuneration via incentives of any kind might have been more readily 
linked by Ms P to receiving an introducer commission. But Ms P was not asked to make a 
declaration in these terms, not have I seen any evidence to show her attention was drawn to 
this aspect of the Key Features when she made the declaration. 
But these are secondary points. As mentioned, it remains my view it was not fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case to ask Ms P to make the declaration at all. The 
application should instead have been refused.  
C&PP has also referred to a letter it says was sent to Ms P, asking her if she had received 
commission payments as an incentive for making an investment. Ms P says she does not 
recall seeing such a letter, and C&PP has, in my view, still not provided sufficient evidence 
to show it was sent. But, even if I assume such a letter was sent, the primary point  that 
things simply should never have proceeded, as C&PP should have refused the application  
applies. Going beyond that, the wording of the letter shows it is clearly an effort to deal with 
issues after the fact. If it was sent, it was clearly sent after the SA investment had been 
made and the damage had therefore been done. So I do not think C&PP sending this does 
anything to mitigate its original decision to accept Ms Ps application, or that a lack of 
response from Ms P did anything to worsen the position she is now in. 
I am also satisfied that, had C&PP not accepted Ms Ps application to open a SIPP 
introduced from S J Stone Ltd, the arrangement for Ms P would not have come about in the 
first place, and the loss she suffered could have been avoided. S J Stone was clearly reliant 
on C&PP to facilitate things  but for C&PPs acceptance of the application, Ms Ps business 
would not have been able to proceed. 
In any event, I think it fair to say Ms P should simply have been unable to complete this 
transaction. I do not think any SIPP operator, acting properly, would have dealt with S J 
Stone or accepted SA investments. C&PP might argue that another SIPP operator would have accepted Ms Ps application, had 
it declined it. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to say that C&PP should not 
compensate Ms P for her loss on the basis of speculation that another SIPP operator would 
have made the same mistakes as Ive found it did. I think its fair instead to assume that 
another SIPP provider would have complied with its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice, and therefore wouldnt have accepted the application from S J Stone Ltd. 
For all the reasons Ive set out, I remain satisfied that it would not be fair to say Ms Ps 
actions mean she should bear the loss arising as a result of C&PPs failings. In the 
circumstances, I am satisfied that C&PP should not have asked her to sign the declaration at 
all. For the reasons I have set out, I am satisfied that the application should never have been 
accepted in the first place.  
Putting things right
I am satisfied that C&PPs failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and industry best 
practice at the relevant time have led to Ms P suffering a significant loss to her pension. And, 
my aim is therefore to return Ms P to the pension position she would now be in but for 
C&PPs failings. 
C&PP should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current position to the position 
Ms P would be in if she had not transferred from her existing pension. In summary, C&PP 
should: 
1. Calculate the loss Ms P has suffered as a result of making the switch.
2. Take ownership of the SA investment if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Ms Ps pension.  If that is not possible pay 
compensation for the loss to Ms P direct. In either case the payment should take into 
account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ill explain how C&PP should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further 
detail below:1. Calculate the loss Ms P has suffered as a result of making the transfer 
To do this, C&PP should work out the likely value of Ms Ps pension as at the date of this 
decision, had she left it where it was instead of switching to the SIPP. 
C&PP should ask Ms P's former pension provider to calculate the current notional transfer 
value had she not switched her pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional 
valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index should be used to 
calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could 
have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the date 
of this decision and this will show the loss Ms P has suffered. The SA investment should be 
assumed to have no value. Account should however be taken of the cash back payment 
paid out to Ms P, and any return Ms P has received from the SA investment (I am aware, for 
example, that the SFO obtained some money from Mr Stone and others, which was 
distributed to some SA investors  although this is likely to have been a small sum). 
2. Take ownership of the SA investments
If C&PP is unable to take ownership of the SA investment it should remain in the SIPP. I 
think that is fair because I think it is unlikely it will have any significant realisable value in the 
future.  However, it would not be fair for Ms P to have any ongoing fees to pay in relation to 
the SIPP. So, in the event C&PP is unable to take ownership of the SA investment (and it 
cant otherwise be removed from the SIPP), it should waive any fees associated with the 
SIPP, until such a time as the SIPP can be closed. 
3. Pay compensation to Ms P for loss she has suffered calculated in (1). 
Since the loss Ms P has suffered is within her pension it is right that I try to restore the value 
of her pension provision if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into the pension.  The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  This may mean the compensation 
should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow for the income tax 
relief Ms P could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms Ps marginal 
rate of tax.
On the other hand, Ms P may not be able to pay the compensation into a pension. If so 
compensation for the loss should be paid to Ms P direct.  But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the 
compensation for the loss paid to Ms P should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Ms Ps marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Ms P is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total 
amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Ms P would have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total 
amount.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ms P has been caused some distress and inconvenience by the loss of her pension benefits. 
This is money Ms P cannot afford to lose and its loss has undoubtedly caused her distress.  I 
consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to compensate for that.Interest
The compensation must be paid as set out above within 28 days of the date C&PP receives 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days. 
Tax 
Ms P has been asked to pay additional tax, as a result of her receiving around 25% of the 
value of her pension as introducers commission. Ms P would have had to pay some tax on 
the amount she received, had it been taken from her pension fund legitimately. I think it fair 
to assume she would have paid income tax at a rate of 20%, given what is known about her 
circumstances. But it seems HMRC has asked Ms P to pay more than this, as it considers 
the payment was an unauthorised payment.
If C&PP had not accepted Ms Ps application, she would not have received the cash 
payment. So, in addition to paying compensation as calculated above, C&PP should pay to 
Ms P (or, if it prefers, HMRC direct) the amount of tax Ms P has been required to pay by 
HMRC over and above the 20% she would likely have paid otherwise. 
C&PP should also pay interest, at the rate of 8% simple, on any amounts of tax Ms P has 
had to pay over and above the 20% she likely would have paid otherwise. That should be 
paid from the date the tax was paid, to the date of this decision. If Ms P has made payments 
in instalments, the earliest instalments should be taken to be part of the 20% Ms P would 
have paid. In other words, the 8% simple should be paid on any amounts paid after an 
amount equivalent to 20% had been paid. 
My final decision
  Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that 
Corporate & Professional Pensions Limited pays the balance.
Determination and award: My decision is that I uphold this complaint and consider that fair 
compensation should be calculated as set out above. I require Corporate & Professional 
Pensions Limited to pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of 
£150,000 plus any interest set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Corporate & Professional Pensions Limited pays Ms P the 
balance plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
John Pattinson
Ombudsman