DRN-1185984
The complaint
Mrs U is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited has closed her credit card 
account without providing a reason for this.
What happened
In June 2019, American Express wrote to Mrs U. It said it had reasonable grounds to 
consider she was no longer creditworthy and/ or unable or unwilling to pay her debts when 
due. About two weeks later it wrote to Mrs U again and told her that it had carried out a 
review and had cancelled her account.
Mrs U complained to American Express, as she wanted to know why her account had been 
closed. American Express said that it didnt give out the details of its investigations and that 
its Terms and Conditions state that it can end an agreement without giving any reason.
Mrs U complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that 
the account had been closed in line with the account terms and conditions.
As Mrs U was still unclear about the reason for her account being closed, she asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware that Mrs Us main concern is that she wants to know why American Express 
closed her account. However, credit card providers can close an account. We would 
normally only look at whether it has closed the account in line with its terms and conditions 
and applied them in a reasonable way.
In the letter that Mrs U received in June 2019, this said that American Express had 
reasonable grounds to consider that she was no longer creditworthy and/ or unable or 
unwilling to pay her debts when due.
The terms and conditions on Mrs Us account have a section called Ending your 
agreement. This says:
We can do this by giving you at least two months written notice, but we may end this 
agreement immediately if:

We have reasonable grounds to believe youre unable or unwilling to pay your debts 
when due.
 Although Mrs U says she doesnt understand why American Express has closed her 
account, it has given her a reason. Although I am aware that the reason is only given in very 
broad terms, this is as much information as it is willing to provide her with. Whilst I accept 
that Mrs U says she doesnt understand what the reason actually means, American Express 
doesnt have to explain any further.
Given that American Express said that it had reasonable grounds for its decision, I need to 
decide whether I agree. I have looked at what led to the account being closed and on that 
basis agree that there were reasonable grounds to do so. 
I am also aware that the account was closed with less than the standard two months written 
notice. Ive thought about whether that was reasonable in the circumstances. Looking at the 
full circumstances of the case, I think it was reasonable to close the account with less than 
two months notice and that this was in line with its terms and conditions. I note that 
American Express also gave Mrs U 14 days notice of the closure, when it could have done 
so immediately.
Based on all of the above, I think American Express has acted reasonably in closing Mrs Us 
account and that it doesnt have to provide her with any more detail for why it did this.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman