DRN-4305391
The complaint
Ms H complains about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited administered her single 
trip travel insurance policy. Ms H is unhappy because Admiral sent policy information to the 
wrong address.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the main events.
In early April 2023, Ms H took out a single trip travel insurance policy to cover a trip she had 
booked. She was due to travel in December 2023. She opted for her policy documents to be 
sent to her by post.
On 14 April 2023, Ms H contacted Admiral, as she hadnt received any policy 
documentation. The call handler informed Ms H that this would be resent. However, 
following the call, Ms H received a communication stating that her address had been 
changed. As Ms H hadnt changed her address, she contacted Admiral a short time later. 
Another call handler changed Ms Hs address back to the correct address and requested 
that further policy documents be sent to her.
Unfortunately, in the meantime, a policy schedule had been sent and issued to the incorrect 
address. This schedule included Ms Hs name, date of birth, trip dates and noted that she 
hadnt declared any medical conditions. 
Ms H was very concerned about the way that Admiral had administered her policy. She was 
worried that her personal information, including her correct address details and trip dates, 
had been shared with a third-party. She was concerned that given the policy documents 
showed a period shed be away from her home; a third-party might be able to use that 
information to potentially commit theft while she was away. She complained to Admiral about 
the way it had handled her policy and personal information.
Admiral accepted that it had made an error. However, it said that Ms Hs correct address 
hadnt been included on the policy document which had been sent to the wrong address. It 
paid Ms H £100 compensation.
Ms H remained unhappy with Admirals position and so she asked us to look into her 
complaint. She felt it was likely her address had been changed prior to her first call with 
Admiral on 14 April 2023 and that therefore, her policy information had been sent to the 
wrong address earlier than Admiral had said. So she still felt Admiral had shared her correct 
address with an unauthorised third-party. And she told us that due to her concerns about the 
security of her home, shed cancelled her trip and had lost her deposit. 
Our investigator thought it was most likely that Ms Hs address had been changed in error 
when she called Admiral to query the receipt of her policy documents. While she accepted 
that Admiral had sent a policy schedule which included some of Ms Hs personal information 
to an incorrect address, she didnt think the schedule had included Ms Hs actual address. 
She acknowledged though that Admirals error had caused Ms H a significant amount of 
trouble and upset. And so she recommended that Admiral should pay Ms H total 
compensation of £500.
Admiral didnt respond to the investigators assessment.
Ms H disagreed and Ive summarised her responses. She didnt think an additional payment 
of £400 was enough to put right Admirals error. She felt that Admiral had conveniently 
produced late evidence in the form of the schedule, which hadnt been included in a bundle 
of documents shed been sent. She still felt it was most likely that full policy information, 
including her actual address, had been shared with an unauthorised third-party. She felt we 
should contact the occupier of the other address to check what information had been sent to 
it. She considered that the investigator was on Admirals side and that the investigator had 
supported Admirals behaviour.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Ms H, I think total compensation of £500 
is a fair and reasonable award to resolve this complaint and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Ms H that whilst Ive summarised the background to this complaint 
and her detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all shes said and sent us. 
Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point shes made and nor do our 
rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Next, its important I make clear our role. We look into complaints brought by consumers 
about the regulated activities of financial businesses we cover. We will consider the 
individual circumstances of each specific complaint to decide whether a financial business 
has done something wrong, and, if so, whether it needs to take any action to put things right. 
We are independent and impartial of both parties and we assess the evidence available on 
each case to reach an outcome we believe to be fair and reasonable. Were not the industry 
regulator and so we have no power to fine or punish the businesses we cover. 
Ms H feels strongly that Admiral failed to fully comply with a data subject access request she 
made to it under data protection law. Shes indicated that she feels transcripts are missing 
information and that Admiral failed to include documents in the evidence it sent her. It 
appears Ms H has already raised her concerns about the overall handling of her personal 
data with the Information Commissioners Office. In my view, that is the proper body to 
assess whether Admiral complied with Ms Hs data subject access request in line with its 
statutory obligations. On that basis, I wont be considering those complaints points as part of 
this decision. What I will go on to consider is the nature of Admirals error and what I think 
fair compensation should be.
It's common ground that Admiral incorrectly changed Ms Hs address on its system. It 
generated policy documentation which was sent to the address of an unauthorised third 
party. Its clear then that Admiral made a significant mistake in the way it administered Ms 
Hs policy. Admirals records and Ms Hs testimony show that on 14 April 2023, Ms H called 
Admiral because she hadnt received policy documentation for a travel insurance contract 
shed taken out around eight days earlier. Ms H is very worried that her address was wrongly 
amended ahead of this call and that therefore, her information  including her actual address  was shared with an unknown third-party during that period. Admiral maintains that Ms Hs 
actual address wasnt erroneously shared at any time.
Where theres a dispute about whats happened, I need to make my decision on the balance 
of probabilities -  what I think is most likely to have happened, taking into account the 
available evidence and circumstances. And having weighed-up all of the evidence, I think its 
more likely than not that Admiral didnt amend Ms Hs address until 14 April 2023, as Ill go 
on to explain.
When Ms H called Admiral on 14 April 2023 to request a copy of her policy documents, she 
was asked to answer security questions to check her identity. One of those was her address. 
Ms H gave her actual address, which passed Admirals security check. If Admiral had had 
the wrong address on its system at that time, I dont think Admiral would have been able to 
verify Ms Hs identity. And I note too that Admirals records show that it appears the wrong 
address was auto-filled into Ms Hs records during Ms Hs conversation with the call handler, 
which had led to the generation of the amendment notification and the policy documentation. 
So I find, on balance, that Ms Hs address most likely wasnt changed until her first call with 
Admiral took place on 14 April 2023. Accordingly, I dont think its likely that any 
documentation containing Ms Hs personal information was sent out to the wrong address 
ahead of that date. Next then, Ill consider the information Admiral says was sent to the 
wrong address on 14 April 2023. 
Ive seen a copy of the policy schedule which Admiral says was sent to the wrong address 
on 14 April 2023. This includes:
The policy cover dates; 
Ms Hs planned trip dates;
Her planned destination; 
Ms Hs date of birth; 
The answer none to the medical condition declaration; and
The wrong address.
There is no reference to Ms Hs actual address on this schedule. So while I entirely accept 
that Admiral did wrongly send some of Ms Hs personal data to a third-party when it issued 
this particular policy schedule, on balance, I dont think the documentation included details of 
Ms Hs actual address. I appreciate Ms H has concerns about when this schedule was 
produced. But Ive seen no compelling or persuasive evidence that it was produced any later 
than 14 April 2023  the cover start date printed on it. And while Ms H may have liked us to 
contact the person who lives at the third party address to check what information was sent to 
their property; I dont think this would have been appropriate or reasonable.
As Ive set out above, I accept that Admiral did make a significant error when it wrongly 
changed Ms Hs address and sent an incorrectly addressed policy schedule to a third party. 
So I need to decide how I think Admiral should put things right. In doing so, Ive borne in 
mind what I think the impact of Admirals mistake was on Ms H  in her particular 
circumstances and based on her testimony and actions. 
Ms H told us that keeping her information private is very important to her. She was very 
worried that an unauthorised third party could potentially have details about her address and 
a specific period shed planned to be away from her home. This caused Ms H significant 
upset and worry, leading her to cancel a pre-booked trip. Shes told us she feels unable to 
leave her home during the planned trip dates. Its clear from Ms Hs submissions how much 
trouble and distress this matter has caused her and so I think the impact of Admirals error 
on her has been significant. And it seems that Ms H will continue to be concerned about the 
security of her home for at least a few months longer  at least until after the trip dates have passed. As such then, I think the adverse impact of Admirals mistake on Ms H will ultimately 
be over several months and I find she ought to be compensated for a prolonged period of 
trouble and upset.
In the particular circumstances of this complaint, I agree with our investigator that the 
compensation of £100 which Admiral paid to Ms H isnt sufficient to reflect the impact I think 
its error has had on her. I too think that a total award of £500 (inclusive of the amount its 
already paid) is fair, reasonable and proportionate to reflect the prolonged distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused her. So Im directing Admiral to pay Ms H a total of 
£500 compensation, less any amount of compensation its already paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Ms H total compensation of £500, less 
any amount its already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman