DRN-3392608
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that an error by Lloyds Bank PLC led to wages payments 
being made twice and that the poor service that followed this led to inconvenience and loss.
What happened
T says that an employee processed its four wages payments on 11 June 2021, and these 
were due to be paid on 15 June 2021. These hadnt been received due to an error by Lloyds, 
so she processed the payments again. Unfortunately, these were paid twice - on 15 and 
then on 17 June 2021. T says that inconsistent information was given by Lloyds about 
whether the issue was one caused by the employee or by Lloyds. It made the employee 
redundant. One of the employees hasnt paid back £200 of the overpayment. And the one 
that processed the payments hasnt paid any of her £2,700 payment having said that all of 
the money was paid from her personal account to a debt collection agency.
Lloyds said that it agreed with Ts complaint about customer service and offered to pay it 
£500 which had been rejected. But it said that it had informed all online payment users of a 
payment incident that had occurred on 15 June 2021. The message that was given was as 
follows:
'We are aware  that a number  of BACS  submissions  due to be paid on 15 June  2021  are 
currently  showing  as rejected.  Please  do not re-submit  these  as we will be re-processing  the 
payments  in time for their value  date'.
It said that the employee was asked to tick a box when she logged on confirming her 
understanding of the message. So, Lloyds didnt accept that she would have needed to have 
made the payment again. Lloyds said that its payment in error team ought to have told T that 
any successful request would have been made in 48 hours. And that the simplest approach 
would be for the employees to repay the money. The request for a refund was declined as 
two payments were made on separate days. It provided new mandates so that the director of 
T could have online access. Lloyds accepted that it had:
failed to keep you informed of the situation and repeatedly given you incorrect and unclear 
advice. This has resulted in you having to take formal action against [the employee]
Our investigator didnt recommend that Lloyds do more than it had offered to. Although there 
was a systems error Lloyds took steps to re-process the payments. This was confirmed by a 
message online which had to be acknowledged before access to the system could be made. 
The employee had logged in at 08:50 on 15 June 2021 and acknowledged the message. So, 
Lloyds wasnt liable for the wages being processed again. It has offered a reasonable 
amount of compensation for the service issues. He appreciated that T had listed 15 
complaint points and said that he was focussing on the overall position. He also noted that T 
had wanted all the call recordings to be listened to but had asked T to specify any particular 
ones that were relevant with the date and time. It hadnt done so.
T didnt agree. It said that it wanted all complaint points to be considered. The poor and 
incorrect service led to all the problems. The director wanted us to listen to all recordings of 
the numerous conversations. Our investigator had accepted Ts claim that the employee was 
made redundant as a result of what happened. She had disputed seeing the message and 
said that the payments hadnt been received for value that day when she logged on as the 
message said. Lloyds had told T that there hadnt been any problem when clearly there had 
and later it agreed that this had been the case. T had been given inaccurate information over 
a number of weeks and this led to the employee being made redundant. T pointed out that 
the director representing it was paid between £50 and £100 an hour and had spent some 54 
hours on this and the employee had spent 22 hours. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am considering a complaint here from T a separate legal entity and I appreciate that both 
the employee using the system and the director contacted Lloyds about it. T says it has 14 
or 15 complaints and Ive read its description of these. In effect these are separate steps in 
the process before it was given a final response- for example that it wasnt called back when 
it had been told it would. Or that it was told that there had been no problem with the system. 
Lloyds has accepted the customer service issues in their entirety, and I will come on to 
consider what is reasonable compensation. T has also not specified any particular calls it 
wants this service to obtain and it is a matter for us to decide how to investigate a complaint.
A key issue here is whether Lloyds or T was responsible for the payments being made twice. 
I refer to T because it gave the employee authority to act on its behalf and commit it to 
payments in line with the account mandate.
There was clearly a problem with payments originating through BACS and which were due 
to be credited on 15 June 2021. Ive seen the audit information for the log on that morning by 
T, and that the message quoted above was received and acknowledged. Lloyds did as it 
said arrange for those payments to be made that day. I think it most likely that the payments 
werent showing as made at 08:50 that morning. But the message referred to being received 
on the value date. 
I think T and the employee who respectively made and received one of the payments that 
day would reasonably have been aware that the money had been processed that day. That 
employee made a further payment instruction through BACS which credited in line with the 
payment cycle two days later. I appreciate that she may have misunderstood and or misread 
the message. But Im afraid I dont find that this was due to any error by Lloyds in 
communicating then what had happened to T.
Based on what T says the employee raised a complaint for it with Lloyds. Ts said, this was 
realised about 27 June. The employee and others had been paid twice which ought to have 
been evident and T would reasonably know that this was on different days and came from 
two payment instructions. I dont think given my findings that Lloyds could reasonably be 
responsible if two employees including the one that originated the payments had committed 
the funds elsewhere. That became a matter between those employees and T. One has paid 
the majority back. The other didnt seem to repay this from further wages before she was 
made redundant or from any redundancy pay.
The error in duplicating the payment was Ts. While the understanding of what happened 
may have been clearer if Lloyds had reconfirmed a BACS problem on 15 June 2021 earlier 
on there was an issue of trust internally at T with the employee. And it isnt clear that the 
employee had told T that she had duplicated the payments. I think that this and the fact that 
T says that the payment hasnt been recovered from her would most likely always had caused issues between her and T.
Given the way these duplicated payments arose and then werent all paid back by the 
employees to T I dont consider that Lloyds is therefore fairly responsible for the related 
costs.
I need to consider compensation and Im thinking about the specific inconvenience caused 
to T, the complainant here. We dont tend to make awards for units of time, and I wont be 
able to consider any distress the employee and director may have felt personally. As I say 
Lloyds hadnt disputed any significant aspects of what T says about the service issues and 
for example the failure to return calls or deal with the directors requests to be given access 
to the system and for the delay in its response. I will be thinking about this overall having 
read what Ts said about this. And Ive taken into account our published guidelines about 
compensation. Having done so I consider that Lloyds offer of £500 is a reasonable one and 
isnt less than I might otherwise have made. I appreciate that the director of T will be 
disappointed by my conclusions.
My final decision
Lloyds has offered to pay T £500 to resolve this complaint. I think that this is fair in all the 
circumstances. So, my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay T £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman