DRN-2557994
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked a card transaction whilst she was on a trip 
overseas.
What happened
Mrs M went overseas and says she informed Lloyds beforehand that shed be going. When 
she tried to purchase some items during her trip, her card was blocked.
Mrs M rang Lloyds and says she was on the phone to them for an hour or so whilst waiting in 
the shop. The call cost around £30. Understandably, she also found this experience very 
embarrassing.
She made a complaint to Lloyds, but they didnt uphold it. They said the attempted 
transaction had triggered a fraud prevention flag in their systems and theyd simply followed 
their standard process in blocking the transaction.
Mrs M wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong. 
Mrs M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Ms frustration and annoyance about what happened. Not only did she 
experience the inconvenience of having the transaction blocked, but she suffered 
considerable embarrassment when she called Lloyds to try to resolve the matter in a 
crowded shop. 
But the question for me is whether Lloyds did anything wrong to cause Mrs M that 
inconvenience and embarrassment. I know this will disappoint Mrs M, but I dont think they 
did. Ill explain why.
I think wed all agree its important banks do whatever they can to prevent fraud on our 
accounts. One of the ways they do that is to put in place systems which use algorithms to 
identify potentially suspicious transactions  and block them if necessary.
Lloyds didnt make an individual decision to block Mrs Ms transaction. It triggered their anti-
fraud flag automatically. Anyone in Mrs Ms position, with Mrs Ms account history etc., would 
have had their transaction blocked. Lloyds tell us the flag wasnt triggered because Mrs M 
was overseas at the time.
Of course, there is a balance to be struck between fraud prevention and convenience to the 
customer. And one of the ways banks can try to strike that balance is by contacting a 
customer immediately when theres a suspicious transaction on their account. 
If they can use known contact details - for example, mobile phone numbers which belong to 
the customer  they can make contact and ask whether it genuinely is their customer whos 
carrying out the transaction.
In that case, theres a very minor inconvenience to the customer  who simply has to 
respond to say the transaction is genuine  but the bank has successfully and appropriately 
checked what on the face of it appeared to be a suspicious transaction.
Lloyds tell us the flag raised on Mrs Ms account when she attempted the transaction in 
question would automatically trigger a text message to the mobile phone number given to 
them by Mrs M. 
Lloyds cant provide us with a copy of that text now  theyre only retained on Lloyds 
systems for two weeks. But given that this is an automated process, theres no reason to 
think it didnt happen in this case. 
And when Mrs M called Lloyds to try to get the block removed, she told them her mobile 
phone had been switched off throughout the relevant period.
Its worth saying that Mrs M made that call from a number which wasnt the contact number 
shed given to Lloyds. 
Id ask Mrs M to put herself in Lloyds position, given those circumstances. They have a 
transaction which has been blocked  because it may be fraudulent. They send a text to 
Mrs Ms contact number but get no reply. And they then get a call from a completely 
unknown number asking them to unblock the transaction. Its not difficult to see why Lloyds 
might have been wary about allowing the transaction, taking all of that into account.
Im not going to criticise Mrs M for having her phone switched off  thats entirely up to her. 
But I have to ask myself whether Lloyds did everything they could do to try to minimise any 
inconvenience for Mrs M when their anti-fraud flag was triggered.
I think they did. They sent Mrs M a text  to her known contact number. If Mrs M had 
responded in good time, the transaction would have gone through. Thats in line with Lloyds 
usual process. And its difficult to see what else they could do but try to contact Mrs M on her 
known contact number.
Its not for me to comment on Lloyds anti-fraud algorithms. And Im sure Mrs M would 
probably agree that asking them to make their anti-fraud flag criteria less strict, on the basis 
of her own personal experience, would be unwise and potentially dangerous.
And so, if we accept that the flag was properly (and automatically) raised on this transaction, 
the only remaining question is whether Lloyds did all they could to mitigate any 
inconvenience for their customer. 
And in this case, by sending the text to ask whether the transaction was genuine, Im 
satisfied they did. Its unfortunate  but neither Mrs Ms nor Lloyds fault  that her mobile 
phone was switched off at the critical time.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman