DRN-3135623
The complaint
Mrs F complains that she was given unsuitable advice by Carnwyllon Wealth Management 
Ltd (CWM) to transfer the benefits from her defined benefit (DB) scheme to a personal 
pension.
What happened
Mrs Fs husband approached CWM for advice in July 2017 as he wanted some advice on his 
own DB pension. CWM completed a fact find and a risk assessment. Mrs F says that when 
CWM heard she also had a DB scheme he encouraged her to transfer it into a personal 
pension. She says CWM gave her information about a specific personal pension product and 
told her about guarantees this would offer. Mrs F says the adviser made it sound better than 
her DB scheme which she says CWM made her believe was frozen.  As CWM didnt have 
the right regulatory permissions to advise Mrs F on a DB pension transfer, they referred her 
to another firm, which Ill refer to as Firm B for this advice.
Firm B advised Mrs F to transfer her DB benefits to a new personal pension. She accepted 
the advice and the transfer went ahead.
Mrs F says she wasnt told about the risks of a transfer and the few short meetings she had 
were rushed and she was simply told to sign the relevant documents. She said some of 
them were blank and CWM told her they would complete the rest afterwards. Mrs F says she 
trusted the adviser but that she doesnt recall seeing some of the documents she has since 
been provided with in the course of her complaint. She doesnt think she was given suitable 
advice and feels both CWM and Firm B are responsible for her losing valuable guaranteed 
benefits by transferring. 
Mrs F made complaints against both firms. CWM said they didnt provide the pension 
transfer advice. They had referred her to Firm B who was responsible for this advice. Firm B 
has since gone into liquidation and so the Financial Ombudsman Service cant consider the 
complaint against them.
Mrs F referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and our investigator didnt 
uphold her complaint. Mrs F disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs F is unhappy that she was advised to transfer out of her DB scheme, 
however the firm responsible for this advice as well as the product recommendation is Firm 
B. They were the firm who had the relevant permissions and provided the formal personal 
recommendation both to transfer out of her DB scheme, where to transfer to and how to 
invest. They then provided the necessary confirmation that they had provided advice to the 
DB scheme. I think its important to remember that Mrs F could not have transferred her 
pension without Firm Bs advice.
I considered whether CWM also holds some responsibility for Mrs Fs losses here, however I 
dont think they do. I dont know exactly what CWM discussed with Mrs F. Whilst I dont 
doubt that Mrs F has described her honest recollections, the paperwork from the time of the 
advice does not indicate that Mrs F was provided with a personal recommendation by CWM 
to transfer. 
I also dont know what exactly was discussed that led Mrs F being referred to Firm B. Her 
husband was referred to them as he specifically wanted advice on his DB scheme. A file 
note suggests it was Mr F who asked whether his wifes DB pension could also be looked at 
the same time. Mrs F denies this and says a transfer was encouraged by CWM. Either is 
possible. However, even if it was CWM who suggested it, I dont think it was unreasonable to 
think that whilst Mr Fs pension was reviewed, Firm B could consider Mrs Fs pension at the 
same time. 
I appreciate its quite possible CWM were generally speaking positively about transferring 
out of the DB scheme and about the pension product which Mrs F ended up transferring into. 
The intention was that, if Mrs F transferred out, CWM would have provided ongoing advice 
on the pension if Mrs F wanted this. And CWM and Firm B were sharing their advice fees. 
So CWM may have been hoping Mrs F would transfer. And Ive considered the possibility 
that CWM inadvertently strayed into advice, even though I havent seen sufficient evidence 
to say that this is what happened. However, even if they did, in my view none of their 
interactions with Mrs F and possible failures in this regard ultimately caused the potential 
losses she suffered.
Mrs Fs representatives say CWM and Firm B should both be liable for her losses. They say 
both firms advised her to transfer and there was a joint venture between the firms. They say 
CWM failed to act in Mrs Fs best interest and treated her unfairly by knowingly collaborating 
in a manner that led to unsuitable advice. 
CWM did not have the required permissions to give advice on a DB pension transfer, so they 
couldnt be expected to recommend Mrs F not to transfer. I think there was nothing generally 
wrong with referring Mrs F on to a firm who could provide advice on her DB pension. 
Mrs Fs representatives say CWM referred a number of clients to Firm B and most were 
advised to transfer out. However, even if this was the case, I think on balance its more likely 
CWN referred customers to Firm B on the understanding they would provide suitable advice 
rather than on the premise that Firm B would recommend a transfer whether it was suitable 
or not. 
I dont think its reasonable to expect that a firm who does not have permissions to provide 
DB pension transfer advice should identify whether advice given by a firm who did have 
these permissions was unsuitable. I think CWM were allowed to expect and rely on Firm B, 
who were regulated and had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary 
qualifications, to provide suitable advice. 
It was ultimately Firm Bs obligation to provide Mrs F with independent and suitable advice. 
And if it wasnt suitable for Mrs F to transfer and Firm B, as the experts in this field, had 
clearly told her so and provided reasons why, I dont think any previous discussions with 
CWM would have likely made Mrs F go against this advice.
In summary, I think it was Firm Bs advice that caused Mrs F to transfer and that they are 
fully responsible for any losses if their advice was unsuitable. I dont think Mrs Fs potential 
losses here are caused by CWMs actions and so I dont consider it fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman