DRN-4003786
The complaint
M is a limited company. It complains HDI Global Speciality unfairly refused to pay its 
insurance claim until it paid an additional premium.
HDI had an agent acting on its behalf. For simplicity Ive referred to the representatives 
actions as being those of HDI. 
What happened
In August 2020 M took out business insurance with HDI. It renewed in August 2021. In 
June 2022 M made a claim for damage to an electrical item. During validation HDI 
discovered what it considered a previous claimable event  theft of an item of jewellery. It 
said M had failed to declare this when taking out the policy. It said as a result M would need 
to pay an additional premium (AP) of £626 if it wanted to proceed with its claim. 
M refused to pay the additional £626 premium. It said it had informed HDI of the pre-policy 
theft of the jewellery. And it said it hadnt made a claim for the loss as it didnt have any 
cover in place at the time. 
In September 2022 HDI responded to Ms complaint. It said M had breached its duty to make 
a fair presentation of the risk when taking out the cover. It said M had failed to do so when 
answering no when asked if it had made any claims in the last five years. HDI repeated its 
requirement for M to pay the AP before the claim could proceed. M continued to refuse. So 
HDI declined the claim, saying there was no cover in place. To resolve its complaint M wants 
HDI to pay the claim. 
In February 2023 our investigator considered Ms complaint. He didnt agree M had 
breached its duty to provide a fair presentation of the risk. So he said HDI couldnt fairly 
require the AP. So he recommended it deal with Ms June 2022 claim in line with the terms 
of the policy. He also said HDI should pay M £250 to recognise the impact of its mistake. M 
accepted that outcome, but HDI didnt. So the complaint was given to me to decide. 
This decision only considers the demand for the AP and HDIs refusal of the June 2022 
claim for its non-payment. It doesnt look at HDIs cancellation of a later policy or its 
response to a further claim made in Autumn 2022. If M would like those issues considered 
by this service, it should complain to HDI first. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That means considering if HDIs decision to demand the AP and decline the June 2022 claim 
for non-payment was fair and reasonable  and in line with the relevant legislation. In 
particular Ive considered the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act). Having done so, Ive decided 
HDI didnt treat M fairly.  
The claim was made against the August 2021 policy. HDI seems to have demanded the AP 
for that policy year. It feels the IA15 allows it to do so. So Ive first considered if its 
reasonable to say M breached its duty, set out in the IA15, to present a fair presentation of 
the risk.  
The August 2021 renewal involved a phone call. HDI says during it M confirmed it had made 
no claims. In the absence of a transcript or call recording Ill assume the question asked was 
the same as that in the renewal and other policy documents (and the same one HDI say M 
was asked on a comparison site in August 2020). This is:
Have you made any claims (whether insured or not) or has anyone asked you for 
compensation in the last five years?
Ive considered HDIs comments on the IA15 duty and warnings M was given about the need 
to provide a fair presentation of the risk. HDI says these mean M had to declare any 
claimable events. But Ive also considered that its fair and reasonable for an insurer to ask 
a clear question to find out what it wants to know.  
M didnt provide inaccurate information in response to the actual question. Its accepted 
there hadnt been a claim. And M was asked if it had made any claims. It wasnt asked if 
there had been any claimable events. Neither was it asked (as in common in my 
experience) if there had been any losses. So no was a reasonable answer to HDIs 
question. 
HDIs feels the inclusion of whether insured or not in the question makes it clear. I dont 
agree. The question asks about claims. If HDI wants to know about all losses (as it appears 
to) then it isnt asking a clear question, instead its a misleading and unfair one. And based 
on what Ms said, Im satisfied it would have declared the loss had it been asked a clear 
question. 
So I dont think its fair or reasonable for HDI to say M breached its duty to present a fair 
presentation of the risk. And as that duty wasnt breached it had no remedies available to it 
under the IA15. 
That means HDIs request for an AP for the August 2021 policy was unfair. It follows that its 
decline of the June 2022 claim, for non-payment, was unreasonable.  
In the event the £626 AP was in part to cover the August 2020 policy the outcome is the 
same. For the same reasons as set out above I dont accept its reasonable to say M 
breached its fair presentation duty for that policy either so HDI cant fairly demand an AP 
for that cover.
So HDI will need to take various steps to put things right for M. It will need to withdraw its 
demand for the AP. It will need to consider the June 2022 claim against the terms of Ms 
policy. 
Finally HDI will need to pay M £250 compensation. I can see Ms had to spend a fairly 
significant amount of time dealing with HDIs unfair request for the AP and decline of its 
claim  rather than with its normal business activities. So HDI will need to pay the 
compensation to make up for that inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require HDI Global Specialty SE to:withdraw its demand for the £626 of additional premium,
consider Ms June 2022 claim against the terms of the policy and 
pay it £250 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman