DRN-4239902
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited failed to provide him with 
enough support while he was experiencing financial difficulties, and terminated the hire 
purchase agreement he had with them.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr M was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW. He paid an advance payment of £42,215.45 and the agreement was for £13,500 over 
48 months; with 47 monthly payments of £698.17, and a final optional payment of 
£14,956.74. 
In March 2020, Mr Ms income was affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. He 
advised BMW about this, and they agreed to a 30-day period of breathing space (where no 
payments were required), followed by a six-month payment deferral (covering the payments 
due from May to October 2020). 
Mr M was unable to resume payments in November 2020, and BMW explained his exit 
options and offered a reduced payment plan. And they explained his credit file would be 
affected by this. But this wasnt put in place because it was unaffordable to Mr M at the time. 
Mr M contacted BMW again on 12 March 2021, and explained his income was still being 
impacted. BMW explained his options, including a reduced payment plan, but nothing was 
put in place.
On 29 March 2021, Mr M offered to pay £600 a month, with a view to increasing it in three 
months time, to start to repay the arrears. However, BMW didnt accept this offer as it was 
less than the required payment and would mean the arrears would continue to increase. So 
Mr M continued to make no payments.
BMW continued to send Mr M letters, as well as attempting to contact him by phone and 
email. By May 2022 the arrears had risen to more than £14,000, and in June 2022, BMW 
sent Mr M a default notice. On 13 July 2022 they terminated the agreement.
Mr M wasnt happy with what had happened. BMW acknowledged theyd terminated the 
agreement before theyd responded to his complaint, which they said they wouldnt do. But 
they thought theyd acted reasonably by defaulting the account because of the extensive 
arrears, and they said they would start to take action to repossess the car if Mr M was 
unable to settle the outstanding balance.
Mr M remained unhappy and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator explained that, under the guidelines laid down by BMWs regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), financial businesses should treat consumers in arrears 
with forbearance and due consideration. And this could be by way of waiving interest, 
deferring arrears payments, accepting token payments etc. She also said there was specific 
FCA guidance relating to customers whose income had been affected by Covid-19.
However, the investigator thought that BMW had followed the FCA guidance on both Covid-
19 and for customers in arrears. She thought BMW couldve accepted Mr Ms offer of £600 a 
month for three months in March 2021 (subject to an income and expenditure assessment to 
ensure it was affordable). But she didnt think doing so wouldve made any overall difference, 
as Mr M continued to make no payments for more than a year after making this offer. 
As such, the investigator thought BMW acted reasonably by defaulting and terminating the 
agreement, as it wouldnt be fair to allow the arrears to continue to increase where there was 
no sign of Mr M resuming payments. And she didnt think BMW needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He said it was shortsighted of BMW to repossess 
the car when its value was less than what he owed, and he thought they should reverse the 
termination, and allow him to pay £750 a month instead. He also said he needs the car as 
transportation for work, and not having it will further affect his income.
He also said that the amount he now owed BMW was more than the amount of the original 
credit, even though hes made payments towards the agreement. So, he didnt think wed 
considered the excessive interest hed been charged, especially as other financial bodies 
are forced to suspend their interest!
Finally, Mr M has said that hed like us to consider the contents of the calls hes had with 
BMW, and he didnt think a full picture could be seen without these.
Because Mr M didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate 
complaints about it. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr M was in arrears with BMW. And, as the 
last payment he made was in March 2020, the arrears were increasing on a month-by-month 
basis. Mr M has said that I need to listen to the calls he had with BMW to understand the full 
situation, but hes currently unable to provide the call recordings. However, Ive seen that 
BMW have provided extensive case notes, which include details of every call they had with 
Mr M. As I havent seen anything to show me that these notes arent correct, or that they 
werent made at the time, Im satisfied its reasonable for me to rely on these notes as the 
calls themselves arent available.
BMWs case notes show that, from the first point Mr M started to miss payments, they tried 
to work with him to clear the arrears in a sustainable way. Ive seen that, in addition to the 
FCA Covid-19 six-months payment deferral, he was offered both breathing space and given 
the option to make token payments. Payment plans were also discussed on multiple 
occasions, but I havent seen that Mr M ever agreed to one being put into place.Given this, Im satisfied that BMW followed the FCAs guidelines around forbearance and 
due consideration. However, its also not reasonable to expect BMW to allow a situation 
such as this to go on indefinitely. As doing so would only put Mr M in a worse situation 
financially as the arrears would continue to increase.
The statement of account shows that Mr M only made eight payments, £5,585.36, since the 
agreement started. And, by July 2022, the agreement was over two years in arrears, with 
around a year remaining on the original term.
The case notes show that, on 29 March 2021, Mr M asked about paying £600 a month for 
three months, and then set up a payment plan in three months time. From this its 
reasonable to presume that Mr M was expecting to be able to resume full payments (plus 
pay an amount toward the arrears, which stood at around £4,500 at the time) by July 2021.
Im in agreement with the investigator that BMW shouldve explored this offer with Mr M, and 
conducted an income and expenditure assessment to ensure it was affordable. While they 
didnt, Mr M didnt make any attempt to make any payments to BMW, even token payments, 
nor did he contact them in July 2021 (when he was presumably expecting to be able to 
recommence full payments) and discuss what he was able to pay.
BMW continued to try and work with Mr M to resolve the situation, but he failed to respond to 
any of their letters, emails, or phone calls. And, during this time, Mr M remained mobile in a 
car that he wasnt contributing towards. So, given the situation, I think it was reasonable for 
BMW to terminate the agreement and start to take steps to repossess the car.
Mr M has argued that its shortsighted for BMW to now repossess the car, as its worth less 
than what he owes. And he would like to refinance the agreement and pay £750 a month to 
clear the outstanding balance and all the arrears. This offer has been made after the 
agreement has been terminated, and I havent seen anything, for example an income and 
expenditure assessment, to show that this offer is sustainably affordable. And, if it is, its 
reasonable to assume that Mr M most likely had the means and opportunity to make this 
offer (or a similar offer) before the agreement was terminated. But he didnt do so.
Given this, I wont be asking BMW to accept this offer.
Mr M has also raised the issue of what he currently owes BMW, and that we havent 
considered the excessive interest hes been charged. In July 2022, when the agreement 
was terminated, Mr M was £19,840.15 in arrears. And the outstanding balance was 
£43,174.93, including those arrears.
The agreement Mr M signed is clear that the effective interest rate (fixed) was 4.9% a year, 
and the expected total interest that would be charged over the lifetime of the agreement was 
£5,555.28. However, this was based on the assumption that every payment would be paid 
on time and in full. And this didnt happen. When Mr M had the six-months payment deferral 
in 2020, BMW explained that interest would still be charged on the deferred payments, and 
that this would increase the total amount of interest payable. This is something the FCA 
allows financial businesses such as BMW to do.Given this, BMW would continue to charge interest on all the unpaid payments i.e. the total 
amount of the arrears, until the agreement was terminated. And I havent seen anything that 
shows me they did this at any interest rate other than the 4.9% confirmed in the agreement. 
So, while the small number of payments Mr M paid compared to the number he missed has 
resulted in the balance at termination being around £1,000 more than the amount of the 
original credit, I cant agree that he was charged excessive interest, nor that BMW have 
continued to charge him interest after the agreement was terminated. And, by terminating 
the agreement slightly earlier than they said they would, this has also reduced the amount of 
interest that BMW would otherwise have charged.
I appreciate the situation Mr M now finds himself in, and that hes reliant on the car for his 
employment. But I dont think its fair to allow him to continue to have use of a car hes not 
paying for and clearly hasnt been able to afford for around three years. And to do so would 
only add to his financial situation, potentially putting him in a worse position to the one he 
now finds himself in. So, for the reasons stated, I wont be asking BMW to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman