DRN-4238604
The complaint
Ms C and Mr W complain about the way Santander UK Plc mishandled a request to transfer 
funds from their current account. 
What happened
In May 2023 Ms C and Mr W tried to transfer £20,000 from their Santander current account 
to an ISA account with a third party provider. The transfer was blocked and Santander asked 
them to get in touch. When they did, they were told the transaction had been blocked as a 
security measure to protect their account. They were told it could now go ahead.
The next day, Ms C and Mr W noticed that two transfers of £20,000 had been made, not just 
the one theyd authorised. Ms C and Mr W werent happy and complained to Santander.
   
Santander said the second payment had been made due to an error by one of its advisers. It 
said that it had seen that Ms C and Mrs W had been able to transfer the duplicate funds 
back into their Santander account. It apologised for the level of customer service received. 
And it gave them £200 as a gesture of goodwill for the inconvenience caused.
 
Ms C and Mr W didnt agree this resolved their complaint and so brought the matter to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded that Santander didnt need to do anything 
more because she thought £200 was fair for the inconvenience and impact caused by 
Santanders mistake.
Ms C and Mr W didnt agree and so their complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. They didnt think our investigator had taken account of the magnitude of the error 
or the fact they had to get the funds returned, not Santander. They didnt think Santander 
had acted promptly and didnt understand why an authorised transaction had been blocked 
in the first place. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I too have decided that Santander do not need to do anything more. Let me 
explain why. 
Ms C and Mr W think it was disproportionate to stop the initial transfer of £20,000. But 
Santander explained why the transaction was blocked and the measures it takes to protect 
its customers accounts. And, although those measures might sometimes be inconvenient, 
as it says, I dont think its unreasonable for banks to sometimes suspend or block 
transactions without first getting confirmation theyve been properly authorised.
Santander accepts it made an error in duplicating the transfer of funds. Theres no argument 
here that it was a mistake by one of its advisers that led to the duplicate transfer. That was a 
big mistake to make. But when I look at what needs to be done to put things right, I look at 
the impact of the error, rather than the magnitude of the mistake itself.
In this case, Ms C and Mr W have said they spent about two hours of their time on this 
matter and that it caused them significant stress and worry. More so because Santander 
didnt help during the first 48 hours and they feel aggrieved that it was them, rather than 
Santander, that had to take action to get the funds returned. 
I acknowledge that the duplicated funds were returned due to the efforts of Ms C and Mr W. 
But, nonetheless, the funds were returned within a few days. That was before Santander had 
investigated what had happened and found that the duplicate transaction had been caused 
by an error made by one of its advisers. Ms C and Mr W think Santander should have acted 
more promptly and while I can see that would have helped reduce their stress and worry, I 
think its fair to allow Santander a bit of time to investigate. And I note that Santander 
provided a response to their complaint within a week, which is a reasonable timescale. 
In its complaint response, Santander explained why it had taken action to stop the initial 
transfer. It accepted that its adviser had made an error and apologised for that. And it paid 
Ms C and Mr W £200 for the inconvenience caused. On balance, I think that amount is 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Its right that Santander provide some level of 
compensation for the impact caused by its error, and I think £200 is a fair amount to 
recognise the wasted time, the frustration and the worry Ms C and Mr W have described.
I acknowledge Ms C and Mr Ws strength of feeling on the matter. And the significant 
distress and inconvenience caused. But, having carefully considered all the information 
available to me, I dont think it would be fair to ask Santander to do anything more. 
My final decision
Santander UK Plc has already paid Mr W £200 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances. So, I do not think it needs to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman