DRN-3847516
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt fully settled a claim 
under his policy. 
What happened
Mr K bought a travel insurance policy to cover his trip to the USA from 12 July 2019 to 11 
November 2019. 
Whilst abroad, Mr K needed to have treatment at a hospital and was admitted on 17 October 
2019 for two days.
URV accepted the claim and in August 2021, sent a written notification of settlement to the 
hospital amounting to £9,918.86. 
In September 2021, Mr K received a bill from a recovery agent on behalf of the hospital 
which confirmed there remained an outstanding balance of $16,250.56. 
Mr K complained and URV responded to say that the amount being claimed was excessive. 
But it offered to pay Mr K £800 compensation; £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused and £300 for the inconvenience of having to forward on further letters from the 
recovery agent. Mr K refused the offer and referred his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think URV had acted fairly. She 
recommended that it pay the compensation offered and the outstanding amount in full.
 
URV disagreed for the following reasons, in summary:
The charges being claimed are inflated  the objective benchmark used by Medicare 
was taken as the cost rate in this case and an additional uplift of 50% was 
implemented. URV has paid a reasonable margin of profit.
It has had no correspondence with the recovery agent since it sent its written 
notification of settlement in August 2020. It was hoping that Mr K would sign a 
declaration which could then be sent to the agent putting them on notice that the debt 
was disputed by both URV and Mr K. Negotiations may then have proceeded 
depending on the recovery agents willingness to work from the actual data rather 
than arbitrary percentage discounts.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think URV should be given a further opportunity to negotiate the amount
due to the hospital. Ill explain why.
I issued my provisional decision on 9 November 2022 which Ive set out in full below. I thank 
both Mr K and URV for responding to and accepting my provisional decision. As both sides 
accept, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings which I adopt as my final 
decision. 
As a matter of general legal principle, URV is bound to indemnify Mr K against losses
covered by the policy as and when the amount of his loss (here the amount of Mr Ks liability
to the healthcare provider) has been ascertained. That may be by agreement, by court
judgment or by arbitration. So URV has a commercial interest in being able to take over the
defence and settlement of such claims in Mr Ks name.
URVs policy terms say it can:
take over and deal with, in your name, the defence/settlement of any claim made
under the policy.
In effect, this means URV has the right to take over the conduct of a claim  defending or
settling it  in the name of Mr K. But that isnt an unqualified right.
Legally, in situations where URVs interests conflict with Mr Ks, URV has a responsibility to
act in good faith when it takes over the defence/settlement of a claim  having regard to Mr
Ks interests as well as its own commercial interests.
URV isnt entitled to act arbitrarily in the way it goes about declining to pay the full amount of
the invoice and contesting the outstanding amount. In deciding whether  and how  to settle
or defend claims against Mr K, URV is required to base its decision on the circumstances of
Mrs Ks individual case rather than on broader concerns about overcharging within the US
healthcare industry.
The applicable regulations lead to a similar conclusion.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them
fairly.
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its
customers and between a customer and another client.
The relevant regulations also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says an insurer must:
handle complaints promptly and fairly;
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress;
not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and 
settle complaints promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance
on what the combination of Principles for Businesses (the Principles) and the detailed rules
mean for providers and distributors of financial services. The RPPD explains that firmsshould consider the impact of their actions, or inactions, on the customer throughout the life
cycle of the service being provided.
I also find it appropriate to take into account what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time of the claim. This was for underwriters of travel insurance  and their
agents - to engage diligently with healthcare providers to try to resolve disputes over medical
bills by actively seeking a compromise or adjudication of their bills. That includes actively
engaging in negotiation.
Ill now explain what this means for Mr Ks complaint.
URV has said the charges being claimed are inflated. And has said the objective benchmark
used by Medicare was taken as the cost rate in this case and an additional uplift of 50% was
implemented. It says it has paid a reasonable margin of profit.
But I havent been provided with any persuasive evidence to show that the US congressional
guidelines are a valid or recognised benchmark for fair payment of medical treatment costs
outside of the Medicare system.
Ive seen no evidence that URV has engaged in any discussions to negotiate the bill. I dont
see any reason why it shouldnt attempt to open negotiations. Even if Mr K hasnt signed the
declaration URV has asked him to, this doesnt prevent it from contacting the recovery agent
or proactively dealing with the matter via an alternative means.
Ive considered whether URV has done enough to deal with Mr Ks claim promptly and fairly.
Ive fully considered the guidelines URV has referred to. But I havent seen how URV has
used these for the basis of negotiations in Mr Ks case.
I can understand why URV doesnt want to pay exaggerated costs. But I would have
expected to see evidence that URV attempted to carry out cost containment negotiations.
But there is no such evidence here.
Alternatively, URV could have sought to have the proper amount of the bill ascertained by a
despite resolution service such as by mediation, arbitration or litigation. Again, there is no
evidence that URV has taken any steps of that kind. And it is aware that costs it has paid are
not acceptable to the hospital but it still appears to have considered the matter settled.
Mr K has said the delay in payment has caused him considerable anxiety and
embarrassment as well as damaging his reputation with the hospital. So URVs actions have
had a significant impact on Mr K for which I think £800 compensation is appropriate in all the
circumstances of this case.
The policy allows URV to take over and deal with the defence/settlement of any claim. But I
expect it to do so in a fair and reasonable way. I must have regard to the law, the relevant
industry rules and regulations and good practice. URV has a duty to deal with claims
promptly and fairly and to act with due skill, care and diligence, paying due regard to Mr Ks
interests and treating him fairly. I dont think it has done that in this case.
URV took a unilateral decision to part pay the invoices. I havent seen any evidence that
URV has attempted to negotiate with the hospital or the recovery agent.
Whilst nobody could suggest that negotiation will lead to a reasonable settlement being
achieved in every case, in many cases it may do so; and Ive seen nothing to suggest that it
couldnt have been productive in this case. Before negotiation is abandoned in a case like
this, I would normally expect to see an insurer explain and justify its position by reference tothe particular items in dispute, take on board any response it receives and advance
arguments to address the particular issues in dispute to try to persuade the recovery agent
to accept the sum being offered, or reach a mutually acceptable compromise.
URV doesnt have the absolute right to partially settle or defend a case in accordance with
its own practices or interests  it still must act fairly and reasonably when doing so  and
must have regard to the interests of the policyholder.
I find the fact that URV made no attempt to negotiate with the hospital or its agent and no
other attempt to have the amount of debt ascertained by any form of dispute resolution
process, contrary to both the regulatory guidance and good practice.
URV needs to act fairly in each individual case. It also has a duty to fairly manage any
conflicts between its own interests and those of Mr K. I dont think it has had due regard to
Mr Ks interests here. And I think it has unreasonably put its own commercial interests above
his without considering his specific circumstances. I dont think URV has considered the
impact of its actions on Mr K, as it is required to do.
Putting things right
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant the
ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which in this case is
URV.
DISP 3.7.11R also provides that a direction may require the respondent, here URV to take
such steps in relation to the complaint as the ombudsman considers just and appropriate
whether or not a court could order those steps to be taken.
Whilst I have seriously considered directing URV to pay the hospital bill in full, so as to bring
the matter to a conclusion, I am conscious that the bill is a sizeable one and that it may be
that URV has grounds for obtaining a significant reduction.
On balance, I dont think that the stage has yet been reached in URVs handling of this claim
where I should direct it to pay this bill in full. I consider that it is fair and reasonable to give
URV a further opportunity to handle the negotiation or ascertainment of the debt more
appropriately than it has so far in order to fix and pay Mr Ks liability. So I intend to limit my
award in respect of URVs mishandling of the matter up to the present date to monetary
redress.
Im satisfied that compensation is due for the worry that this matter has caused Mr K. I think
the sum of £800 fairly compensates him for the trouble and upset caused to him by URVs
handling of the claim so far  that is for its conduct up until the date of this decision.
However, URVs duties in relation to its handling of Mr Ks claim dont end with this decision,
as the matter of the outstanding bills remains live. The hospital will continue to seek payment
of its bill and it remains URVs responsibility to take active steps to resolve this matter
quickly and in a manner that has due regard to Mr Ks interests and treats him fairly. In the
interests of all concerned, I urge URV to take its continuing duties to Mr K very seriously.
Because URVs duties continue, the manner in which it handles the claim hereafter may give
Mr K grounds for a further complaint to this service.
In particular, if after the date of this decision URV doesnt take active steps to ascertain the
amount of the debts and discharge any outstanding bills in a fair and reasonable manner,
such future unreasonable conduct is very likely to result in further worry for Mr K and in afurther complaint to this Service. (Any such further complaint would have to be based upon
URVs conduct of the claim after the date of this decision, as opposed to during the period
that I have considered.) I hope that this will not occur, as the intention behind my decision is
to give it another chance to prosecute its settlement or defence of the debts diligently. If
there are further failings, URV may be at heightened risk (amongst other things) of receiving
a direction to pay the bills in full. But that would be a matter for a different ombudsman to
decide in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Union Reiseversicherung 
AG to pay Mr K £800 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman