DRN-2255755
The complaint
Mr L complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) hasnt paid him 
promotional bonus points for spending on his credit card and charged him for the second 
year of using the card.
 
What happened
In April 2019, Mr L took out a credit card with American Express (AMEX) which offered 
membership reward points as a bonus.  The terms of the offer were that 10,000 membership 
rewards points would be awarded to the account if purchases of at least £15,000 were made 
within a 12-month period ending on the anniversary of membership.
Mr L believed hed spent enough on his card to qualify for this bonus, but AMEX calculated 
that he hadnt. Mr L felt that this was because of a transaction of £6,000 which he had 
initially disputed so it had been deducted from his account, but hed then accepted the 
transaction. 
AMEX offered to honour the bonus points for Mr L, but he said he should also receive 
compensation for what had happened. However, AMEX didnt think it had done anything 
wrong, so it withdrew its offer to credit Mr Ls account with the bonus points.
 
Mr L complained. He said hed also been charged a £140 membership fee for the second 
year of using the card even though there was meant to be no charge for the first year. He 
said it was clear that hed spent the £15,000 on the card and that AMEX owed him the bonus 
points. He said it should give him these and pay him £200 compensation for his wasted time 
and inconvenience. 
As a gesture of goodwill, AMEX applied the bonus points to Mr Ls account. It also refunded 
his membership fee. But it didnt feel he should be paid any compensation.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
didnt think AMEX had acted unreasonably by not adding the bonus points to Mr Ls account, 
as he didnt think the eligibility terms for them had been met. But AMEX had since applied 
the bonus points as a gesture of goodwill, and had refunded his membership fee, and the 
investigator said this was positive. But he didnt think Mr L had suffered any financial loss so 
he didnt think AMEX should be required to pay Mr L additional compensation. 
Mr L said that AMEX had provided him with poor service, so his compensation demand still 
stood. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I find Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for much the 
same reason.
I can see that Mr L felt that a disputed transaction of £6,000 hadnt been included in AMEXs 
calculation of his spending on his account to qualify for these bonus points. It seems that 
Mr L queried this when this amount was reapplied to his account after he accepted the 
transaction was his. And AMEXs notes show that he was told that, if he contacted it at the 
time of the anniversary of his membership, points could be manually added if he was eligible 
for them. 
However, at the time of the anniversary AMEX concluded that his total spending in the 
previous year didnt meet the qualifying amount. It confirmed that the disputed amount of 
£6,000 had been counted towards the money spent on his card. So I dont think that AMEX 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in not crediting these bonus points, when its records showed 
that he hadnt met the eligibility criteria for them. 
However, when Mr L complained, AMEX offered to honour the bonus points as a gesture of 
goodwill, and these were credited to his account in June 2020. I can also see that AMEX has 
refunded the full £140 membership fee Mr L was charged.
Taking everything into account, I dont think AMEX should be required to do anything further 
to resolve Mr Ls complaint. I appreciate he took time to contact AMEX when he felt he 
should receive the bonus points and disagreed with the level of spending on his account, but 
it has since credited these points as a gesture of goodwill and has refunded his membership 
fee in full. Overall, I think this represents a fair resolution.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman