DRN-2950240
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Society of Lloyd's unfairly turned down his business interruption 
insurance claim after his business was impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic.
For ease of reading, reference to Lloyds will include anything done by the underwriters. 
What happened
Mr G held a business interruption insurance policy with Lloyds. He claimed on his policy 
after his business was impacted by the Governments actions in response to the Covid-19 
pandemic.
Lloyds said the policy didnt cover Mr Gs claim because the core business interruption 
cover provided by the policy required there to have been damage to property and Covid-19 
didnt cause damage to property. They said the extension for prevention of access didnt 
provide cover either because that had an exclusion for notifiable diseases.
Unhappy with the response from Lloyds, Mr G brought his complaint to us.  He said hed 
held insurance for many years and thought his policy should provide cover for his claim. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of his claim.
Mr G asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said access to his business had been 
prevented and thought the policy should provide cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Mr Gs business. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Lloyds have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Mr Gs claim. Id like to reassure Mr G that while Ive reviewed the whole 
policy, Ive focussed my decision on the parts that I find most relevant. 
Damage
The core business interruption cover under by Mr Gs policy provides cover for business 
interruption:
If during the period of insurance any buildings or other property or any part 
thereof used by the Assured at the Assureds premises stated in the Schedule 
(hereinafter referred to as the Premises) for the purpose of the Assureds 
Business stated in the Schedule (hereinafter referred to as the Business) be 
DESTROYED OR DAMAGED by
The policy then sets out a list of events which would be covered if they caused damage, 
such as fire, storm and theft. 
For this section of the policy to provide cover, buildings or other property used by Mr G at his 
premises would need to have been destroyed or damaged by one of the listed events. There 
isnt an event listed which would provide cover for Covid-19 and I havent seen anything to 
indicate that Covid-19 destroyed or damaged Mr Gs buildings or property. So, this doesnt 
provide cover for Mr Gs claim.  
Prevention of access
The policy also says:
It is hereby agreed that subject to the terms and conditions of this insurance loss 
as insured by Item 1 of this Section resulting from prevention or hindrance of 
access to or the use of the Premises solely in consequence of
(a) Damage (as defined herein) to property in the immediate vicinity of
the Premises
(b) restrictions imposed by order of a Civil Authority consequent upon any other
sudden and unforeseen emergency which is likely to endanger life or property
in the vicinity of such premises except that
(i) no claim shall be payable unless the restrictions shall be in force for a
period of more than four consecutive hours,
(ii) this shall not include loss resulting from strikes, picketing or notifiable
diseases or from any event of which the Assured had prior knowledge,
(iii) the Indemnity Period shall be the actual period during which the
restrictions are in force but not exceeding the Indemnity Period stated
in the Schedule, shall be deemed to be loss resulting from Damage to property 
insured by the Assured at the Premises.
I will deal with (a) and (b) in turn. 
The first part of this (a) requires access to Mr Gs premises to be hindered or 
prevented by damage to property in the immediate vicinity of his premises. While 
access to Mr Gs premises was hindered or prevented, I havent seen anything to 
indicate that this was due to property in the immediate vicinity of his business being 
damaged. So, unfortunately this doesnt provide cover either. 
The second part of this term (b) requires restrictions to be imposed by order of a Civil 
Authority consequent upon any other sudden and unforeseen emergency which is 
likely to endanger life or property in the vicinity of Mr Gs premises. However, it 
specifically excludes loss resulting from notifiable diseases. 
In reaching a decision, Im required to take account of the relevant law. I think the High Court 
judgment on the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case is relevant to Mr Gs complaint. 
Thats because the High Court considered a similar term within another insurers policy and 
this part of the judgment wasnt appealed to the Supreme Court. 
Paragraph 376 of the judgment says:The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in
the 21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under
either [this type of] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of
the premises.
I see no reason to depart from the position reached in the High Court judgment. I appreciate 
that this isnt exactly the same term considered by the Court, but I think the Government 
actions which impacted Mr Gs business were as a result of Covid-19, which is a notifiable 
disease. So, Im afraid this doesnt provide cover for Mr Gs claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr G was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Lloyds to pay Mr Gs claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman