DRN-2837449
The complaint
Mr M complains that Equifax Limited generated a credit report without his consent.
 
What happened
Towards the end of September 2020 Mr M contacted Equifax and complained a credit report 
had been generated without his consent. Equifax said it produced a credit report after a 
dispute Mr M had raised previously had been resolved. 
Equifax sent Mr M a final response in December 2020 and partially upheld his complaint due 
to delays in responding. But Equifax said the dispute Mr M had previously raised had been 
dealt with and that the account in question had been reapplied to his credit file. A statutory 
credit report was produced to show the updated information.  
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Equifax had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly. Mr M asked to appeal, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I previously issued a decision explaining why our service cant consider complaints about 
complaint handling. In this decision, Ill cover the remaining issues were able to look at. 
Mr M says he didnt consent to Equifax generating a credit report in September 2020. But 
Equifax says it produced the credit report after a lender, who Mr M had previously disputed a 
credit file entry with, responded to say the information should remain on his credit file. 
Equifax says that when a dispute is raised it can take the step of temporarily removing the 
entry in question from a consumers credit file until its been responded to and resolved. In 
this case, the business relating to the dispute Mr M raised took longer than expected to 
respond. But when it did, in September 2020, Equifax reapplied its entry to Mr Ms credit file. 
Equifax has confirmed it produced a new credit report showing the reapplied entry in 
September 2020. I havent found that Equifax made an error or treated Mr M unfairly when it 
produced a credit report. 
Equifax has also confirmed that the credit report it produced in September 2020 isnt visible 
to other businesses or organisations and wont have the same impact as a hard search on 
Mr Ms credit file. So whilst I understand Mr Ms concerns, I havent found hes been unfairly 
impacted by Equifax producing a credit report in this case.
As Im satisfied Equifax dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further 
action. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman