DRN-3475463
The complaint
Mr R senior complains, on behalf of his son, Mr R, about the administration of his Junior 
Individual Savings Account (JISA) by Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL). 
Mr R senior complains that when his son reached 18 years of age IISL applied a monthly 
charge to the account, so he tried to transfer the account. Mr R senior says that when he 
contacted IISL it wouldnt take instructions from him. Mr R senior says that IISL also refused 
to take instructions from the new provider. 
Mr R senior complains that IISL caused delays by sending correspondence to his sons 
home address when he was away. In addition, he says that IISL asked for identification 
documentation from his son unnecessarily which caused further delays.
Mr R senior and his son didnt accept IISLs offer to refund some of the fees.  
What happened
Mr R senior opened a JISA for his son. 
In May 2020, before the account matured, IISL sent account verification forms to Mr R which 
included a verification of identification form and an extra due diligence form.
In June 2020 Mr R reached 18 years of age and became the sole authorised person on the 
account. 
Mr R senior contacted IISL in September 2020 to transfer the account to a new provider. 
IISL said it couldnt discuss the account with him because Mr R senior wasnt an authority on 
the account, so his son would need to contact IISL. 
On 30 September 2020 Mr R senior contacted IISL to ask about the rejected transfer. IISL 
said it was unable to discuss the account with him because he didnt have the relevant third-
party authority. 
On 14 October 2020 the account holder, Mr R, contacted IISL. IISL was unable to complete 
security checks with him.
On 3 December 2020 IISL re-sent the account verification documents. 
On 25 February 2021 Mr R contacted IISL again but IISL was unable to complete the 
security checks. IISL then re-sent the verification forms. 
On 13 April 2021 IISL contacted the account holder and obtained some of the information it 
required. It decided, given the value of the account, that this was sufficient information to 
allow Mr R to give instructions.
In April 2021 Mr R senior complained to IISL and said it had delayed the transfer of his sons 
ISA.
On 25 May 2021 IISL responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said that it didnt 
have authority to discuss the account with Mr R senior, as his son was now 18 and hadnt 
given authority for someone else to deal with his account.    
On 15 July 2021 £134.90 credit was applied to the account and shortly after the account 
holder, Mr R, was informed by way of secure message that this credit had been applied.
However, the transfer of his account to another provider wasnt progressed because there 
were outstanding fees.
On 1 September 2021 Mr R sent a secure message asking about the transfer.
On 3 September 2021 IISL responded by secure message indicating that any outstanding 
fees would need to be paid before the transfer could take place and the word fees should 
be used as a reference for the payment.  
Mr R senior referred the complaint to our service on his sons behalf.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She noted that 
the JISA had matured when Mr R reached 18 years of age and that just prior to that, IISL 
sent documentation in respect of identification verification to be completed by Mr R. The 
investigator thought it was reasonable for IISL to ask for this information as it had to adhere 
to financial rules and regulations. 
The investigator acknowledged that Mr R senior had then sought to transfer the ISA account.  
However, she concluded that IISL was unable to take instructions from Mr R senior because 
he didnt have authority to act on his sons behalf, as Mr R was the sole authority and he 
hadnt formally given permission for another person to act on his behalf.
The investigator considered that IISL was entitled to apply monthly fees under the terms of 
the account and she was satisfied it could ask for those fees to be paid before a transfer 
could take place.    
She noted that Mr R hadnt provided the required information in respect of identification 
when the account matured, or when the transfer was initially requested, and she didnt think 
the type of evidence requested by IISL for that purpose was unusual or unreasonable. 
However, she considered there had been a delay by IISL of about six months, between 
October 2020 and April 2021, in accepting Mr Rs information. She noted that IISL had 
credited Mr Rs account with significantly more than six months worth of fees in July 2021, 
so she felt that IISL had compensated Mr R for that delay. 
The investigator thought it was reasonable to conclude that further losses could have been 
mitigated had the fees been paid sooner and the account transferred. So, the investigator 
didnt think IISL should return any more fees.
Mr R senior didnt agree and in summary said that:
He and his son had spoken to IISL on the same phone line before he had gone 
away.
They had the same address for 10 years and he also had an account with IISL under 
which the JISA had been managed.
He said his son had the required evidence of identification. 
He said that if the risk assessment had been conducted in October 2020, the amount 
of fees outstanding wouldve been small  less than IISL eventually refunded - and 
so the transfer instruction would have been actioned.
He said they had both written to IISL and contacted it by telephone, but he said IISL 
had not suggested that a third-party registration form could be set up, to allow Mr R 
senior to complete his sons transfer on his behalf. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To recap, Mr R had a junior ISA which matured when he reached 18 years of age. Mr R 
senior was the registered contact for the JISA. However, when Mr R became an adult, Mr R 
senior could no longer act on his behalf in respect of this account, unless his son specifically 
gave permission. That had to be done formally and there was a form that could be 
completed in order to give that permission.
The terms of the JISA said:
15. On the child attaining the age of 18
15.1 The Junior ISA will automatically become an ISA account (or such similar account as is 
available) at the time the Child reaches 18.
And 
15.3 Once the Childs identity has been verified in accordance with applicable money 
laundering policies at the time, the Child will be able to make withdrawals from the Account. 
We will write to the Child and the Registered Contact before the Child turns 18 with further 
details about the new ISA account including, how to withdraw funds or transfer them to a 
different ISA provider and how the Child can activate their ISA account.
In May 2020 IISL sent an account conversion letter asking for verification of Mr Rs 
identification and enclosing forms. The account holder, Mr R, needed to complete the forms 
and send the relevant evidence. That documentation wasnt completed and returned, and no 
permission was provided for a third party to deal with Mr Rs account. So, when Mr R senior 
contacted IISL in September 2020, it was unable to discuss the account with him, or carry 
out any of his instructions because it didnt have the account holders permission to do so.
I dont consider that was unfair or unreasonable because Mr R was no longer a minor and as 
the adult account holder, he needed to give permission for others to act on his behalf. I also 
dont think it was unreasonable to require that to be actioned by way of a formal written 
document to try to ensure that it was a valid instruction from the account holder.
I appreciate Mr R senior points out that he wasnt told there was a form his son could 
complete to authorise him to act on his sons behalf. But I think it was reasonable to expect 
that upon maturity it would be the adult account holder who would provide instructions. In 
addition, I dont think it would have been too onerous to look for the form online, or ask IISL 
what was needed in order for Mr R senior to act on Mr Rs behalf. And in any event, I 
consider that IISL would still have required verification of identification from Mr R.   
The terms of the account provided that upon reaching 18 years of age the JISA would 
automatically become an ISA account and that the account holders identification would 
need to be verified before withdrawals could be made. And I note that IISL sent the relevant 
forms before the account matured to try to obtain that verification. 
I consider that IISL acted correctly in sending any forms and correspondence to the 
registered address it held for the account, until it was properly notified by the account holder 
of a change of address, and that notification couldnt properly be given until the verification of 
identification had taken place. So, although I appreciate that made matters difficult, because 
Mr R was at the registered address infrequently, I dont think IISL did anything wrong in this 
regard. 
I also note that identification verification was something IISL carried out in order to comply 
with its duties in respect of rules aimed at preventing money laundering. So, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for it to request some information and evidence and I agree with the 
investigator that the type of evidence it required wasnt anything unusual.  
Delay in accepting information regarding identification verificationHowever, I note that IISL eventually decided to accept less comprehensive evidence from      
Mr R, having conducted a risk assessment and noting the value of the account. So, I agree 
with the investigator that if IISL could take this decision, to accept less comprehensive 
evidence from the account holder in April 2021, it seems there was no reason why it couldnt 
have done the same thing in October 2020, when the account holder first contacted IISL.  
So, I think it is more likely than not that IISL caused a delay of about six months from 
October 2020 (when it was initially contacted by the account holder ) to April 2021 when IISL 
decided to accept the information provided by the account holder as sufficient evidence to 
satisfy its checks.
Fees applied to the account
I dont think IISL acted incorrectly in applying fees to Mr Rs account because its stocks and 
shares ISA charged a monthly fee, so it was entitled to apply those fees until the ISA was 
transferred to another provider. 
IISL has explained that HMRC rules meant that it couldnt put an ISA into a negative 
balance. So if there wasnt enough within the cash balance to satisfy the account fee, the fee 
would become outstanding on the account, which is what happened in Mr Rs case. 
I note it was also able to sell assets to cover the outstanding fees should it decide it was 
necessary to do so.
Transfer 
As the investigator has already set out, a transfer requires the new provider to contact the 
existing provider with documentation signed by the account holder authorising the transfer. 
So, relevant documentation would need to be provided and the existing provider would need 
to be satisfied that the new provider had the account holders instructions in order to transfer 
the account. 
Mr R senior says that IISL didnt act on instructions to transfer the ISA account which 
delayed matters and meant that monthly fees were incurred unnecessarily. However, I 
consider there were some obstacles to the transfer that werent caused by IISL. 
Firstly, IISL wasnt able to take instructions from Mr R senior because he didnt have the 
relevant authority. Secondly, it wasnt able to take instructions from the account holder 
because he hadnt supplied the required evidence of identification, requested by IISL in May 
2020. And by the time sufficient information had been supplied, in October 2020, fees had 
already accrued on the ISA account and were outstanding. 
I dont think it was unfair for IISL to require fees, that had been properly applied and were 
outstanding on the account, to be paid before any transfer could take place.
As I have said, I consider IISL was responsible for some of the delay, so I dont think it would 
be fair for IISL to expect Mr R to meet all of the outstanding fees. 
IISL initially offered a £60 refund in fees which was not accepted and then, in July 2021, it 
credited Mr Rs account with £134.90 in respect of some of the fees incurred and it notified 
him of this by secure message on 19 July 2021. 
Shortly after, and in response to his enquiry, Mr R was informed that in order for the transfer 
to take place the outstanding fees would need to be paid. He was also informed as to how 
he could do this. 
I note that this was a self-managed account, and I am satisfied on balance that Mr R was 
able to ascertain the level of fees that needed to be paid by consulting his statement or 
online account information. In addition, Mr R could have asked IISL for further clarification 
during the exchange of messages if he was unsure.  However, Mr R indicated to IISL that the compensation paid to him wasnt acceptable and I 
understand this was because he felt that IISL was responsible for all the fees incurred while 
he was waiting for a transfer to take place. 
On that basis, I think it more likely than not, that even if Mr Rs information had been 
accepted by IISL in October 2020, the transfer wouldnt have taken place at that point.  IISL 
may well have agreed to waive some of the outstanding fees, but I think it is more likely than 
not, that there wouldve still been some outstanding fees to settle, and Mr R wouldve had to 
pay those before the transfer could take place. 
Refund of fees by IISL
As I have said, IISL credited Mr Rs ISA account with £134.90 in July 2021. As the fees 
charged at the maturity of the account, in June 2020, were £9.99 a month this represented 
more than a years fees. So, I consider this represented significantly more than the six-
month delay I have concluded was caused by IISL.  And for the reasons already outlined, I 
dont think the six-month delay was the cause of the delay in transferring the account 
because ultimately any outstanding fees had to be paid before the transfer could take place.  
So, I consider the credit made by IISL to Mr Rs account was fair and reasonable 
compensation for not carrying out its risk assessment at an earlier stage and I think it 
explained in clear terms to Mr R that he needed to settle any outstanding fees before he 
could transfer his ISA account. On that basis I dont intend to ask it to do anything further 
here. 
Summary
I appreciate that it would have been frustrating to have incurred monthly fees on an account 
that Mr R wanted to transfer. And I also appreciate that those fees wouldve continued to be 
incurred since and may well now exceed the fund value.  However, I dont think that IISL 
acted incorrectly or unfairly with regards to the requirements it made in order to be able to 
take instructions from Mr R. I do think it could have acted more promptly with regards to its 
risk assessment however I am satisfied that the compensation it has already paid Mr R 
addresses that delay and is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Rs complaint against Interactive Investor Services Limited is not 
upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman