DRN-2924523
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that the surrender value of her whole of life assurance policy with 
Countrywide Assured Plc is too low, compared with the amount shes paid in.
What happened
Mrs A took out a reviewable whole of life assurance policy in 1989 with an initial sum 
assured of around £82,000. In 2004 Mrs A raised a complaint about the sale of the policy, as 
she had been under the impression that it was a savings plan. Countrywide replied to that 
complaint and didnt uphold it. Following the scheduled contractual reviews over the years, 
the sum assured has decreased and in 2020 was around £23,000. Mrs A raised complaint 
about the reviewable nature of the policy in 2019, which Countrywide also rejected. She 
brought that complaint to our service and in June 2020 we found it was not a complaint we 
could consider, because it had been brought too late under the relevant rules.
Following that complaint, on 13 August 2020 Mrs A was given a surrender value quote of 
£441.08 and was told she could alternatively make the policy paid up, with a sum assured of 
£460. Mrs A raised a complaint about this, as shes calculated that shes paid in over 
£11,000 to the policy and feels the surrender and paid up values ought to more closely 
resemble the amount paid in.
Countrywide felt the complaint was too closely related to the previous complaints Mrs A had 
raised in 2004 and 2019, so refused to address it again. They thought our service also 
shouldnt address it, as the complaint was raised outside of the applicable time limits. An 
investigator at our service explained that the complaint was sufficiently different from those 
raised previously. She found that wed be able to look at the single issue of whether the 
surrender value was fair and reasonable, as this had not been raised before - and 
Countrywide agreed. 
The investigator found that the terms of the policy set out how the surrender value would be 
calculated, and they clearly show the surrender value would be less than the amount paid 
into the policy. Mrs A disagreed, saying that she didnt think it was fair that the value could 
be so little compared to the premiums. She explained she would like the premiums to not 
increase any further, otherwise only Countrywide will benefit from this policy. As no 
agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to acknowledge that I understand Mrs A feels strongly about the policy and isnt 
happy with a number of its aspects. However, I should clarify that I will not be commenting 
on the sale of the policy, or the fact the premiums and sum assured are reviewable, given 
what we said in June 2020. This means I will not be able to tell Countrywide to stop reviews 
from happening in future, which includes not being able to tell them to keep Mrs As premium 
the same. The scope of my review is limited to just the values Countrywide gave Mrs A in 
their letter of 13 August 2020.
Ive considered the terms and conditions of the policy which set out how the surrender value 
would be calculated. These explain that its a with-profits reviewable whole of life policy and 
its primary purpose is to provide life assurance. The terms also say the surrender value is at 
the discretion of the business. 
Although not set out in the terms, the normal operation of this type of policy is that when Mrs 
A pays her premiums into the policy, they are invested. Deductions are made from the 
investment fund to cover the costs of providing the life cover and other administration fees. 
The amount being deducted each month is variable  the cost of the life cover changes 
throughout, depending on factors such as mortality rates and estimated investment 
performance, and is at Countrywides discretion. Sometimes the amount deducted is more 
than the amount being paid in premiums. When that happens, the amount in the investment 
fund is used to supplement the premium, in order to meet the costs deducted.
So, while the investment is being added to each month with Mrs As premiums, its also 
being continually reduced by the deduction of the charges and the cost of providing the life 
cover. Being an investment, the value of the fund can fluctuate as well  so this again could 
either reduce or increase the value of Mrs As policy. When it comes to the surrender value, 
Mrs A is entitled to the fund value, which is the amount left of the investment portion of the 
policy, plus a terminal bonus. The terms set out that the bonus is entirely at Countrywides 
discretion. 
The paid-up sum assured provided by Countrywide in August 2020 is calculated by 
reference to the value of the policy too. Given that the investment will hopefully continue to 
grow, this is slightly higher than the surrender value itself. The life cover and other costs will 
continue to be deducted and the cover will cease when the underlying investment has been 
exhausted. 
At the point of receiving the quote, Mrs A had been paying for the life cover for around 31 
years. Had a claim been made during that time, Countrywide would have paid out a sum 
assured that would have been more than the amount shed paid in, based on the sums 
assured that have applied to her policy. It wouldnt be fair for me to say that Countrywide 
ought not to have been paid for providing cover for this time. This is akin to an insurance 
contract, where you pay the firm against the risk of something happening and the firm will 
cover the agreed costs resulting if that event happens. If the risk doesnt materialise, the firm 
doesnt reimburse the amount the insured paid. This is the basis of insurance and generally 
isnt unfair. The value of Mrs As policy is a result of having paid premiums to protect against 
a risk that hasnt occurred, and I dont think its unreasonable. 
I would note that the quotes given in 2020 were not guaranteed and are likely to be different 
now if Mrs A were to get new values. 
Having reviewed everything I dont think its unfair or unreasonable that the surrender value 
of the policy is so much less than the amount Mrs A has paid into the plan, so I am not 
upholding Mrs As complaint. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman