DRN-2898575
The complaint
Mrs J complains about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of her claim for legal expenses 
insurance (LEI). She believes they caused her to miss an important employment tribunal 
deadline. 
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here. In late 2019 Mrs J was dismissed from her 
employment. She wanted to take legal action against her former employer and contacted a 
solicitor about this. 
Mrs J later realised she had LEI cover provided by Amtrust and on 13 February 2020 she 
submitted a claim online. The claim form recorded that she wanted to pursue her former 
employer for unfair dismissal and that she already had her own solicitor who she wanted to 
continue to use. 
On 18 February 2020 Amtrust wrote to Mrs J and explained that the policy only provided 
cover for a panel solicitor at that time. They offered the services of one of their panel 
solicitors L and asked Mrs J to contact them if she was happy for L to be appointed under 
the policy. 
Mrs J says she contacted Amtrust the same day to confirm shed like to proceed with L. She 
also says she contacted them on 28 February, 9 and 23 March 2020 chasing updates. 
Amtrust say they have no record of receiving any of these calls. 
When Mrs Js claim was ultimately assessed by L in May 2020, they concluded that it didnt 
have the required prospects of success. This was based on Mrs J having missed an ACAS 
deadline. They said she was required to have started ACAS conciliation by 17 March 2020 
and she did this on 23 March 2020. Theyd also considered whether her claim might be 
accepted late but thought this was unlikely. Based on this, Amtrust declined to take any 
further action in relation to the claim. 
Mrs J complained, she felt that the reason shed missed the deadline was due to Amtrust. 
She says but for their maladministration of her claim, the deadline wouldnt have been 
missed. Amtrust maintained their position and the complaint was referred to our service. 
One of our investigators didnt think it should be upheld. She concluded that Amtrust had 
acted fairly in the circumstances and didnt think there was evidence to suggest that they 
were responsible for the missed deadline. Mrs J disagreed and has asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint. 
Im also aware that whilst the complaint has been with our service, Mrs J paid privately for 
further representation and in December 2020 an employment judge ruled that it was not 
reasonably practicable for Mrs J to have presented her claim within the time limit and it 
wasnt struck out. Mrs J would like Amtrust to reimburse her the legal costs she incurred 
getting to that point. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of what needs to be decided here is whether Amtrust are responsible for 
mishandling Mrs Js claim in such a way that they can fairly be held responsible for her 
missing the ACAS deadline. The later legal assessment that took place concluded that, on 
the basis of it having been brought too late, there were insufficient prospects of success (as 
required by the policy). 
Amtrust themselves arent legal experts, they are an insurer. So, I think it is fair for them to 
rely on the legal opinion from L to conclude that there werent the required prospects of 
success. The legal opinion said that Mrs J needed to have contacted ACAS by 17 March 
2020 and that she hadnt done so until 23 March 2020. I think it is fair for Amtrust to rely on 
that opinion to decline to further fund the claim. The fact that Mrs J has since been 
successful and that the judge didnt strike her claim out doesnt change my opinion on that. 
The outcome doesnt mean that the legal opinion was obviously wrong or that it was unfair 
for Amtrust to rely on it at the time. 
It is agreed that Mrs J submitted an online claim form on 13 February 2020. It is also 
accepted that Amtrust sent her an email on 18 February 2020 explaining that there wasnt 
cover for Mrs J to use her own solicitor at that point and that they could look to use L if she 
provided them with instructions to do so. 
Mrs J also emailed Amtrust on 23 March 2020. This email requested an update on what was 
happening with her claim. It makes reference to her having contacted Amtrust previously and 
that she was transferred to L who said they had no record of having been passed her case. 
There is further evidence to support that Mrs J spoke to L around 23 March 2020 as this was 
the date on which she contacted ACAS. A later email from Mrs J to Amtrust records that she 
did this upon advice from L when they were unable to find a record of her file. 
Based on the later legal opinion from L, the important deadline was on 17 March 2020. So 
whilst I appreciate there were some issues around the provision of further information to 
enable her claim to be considered, by that point the deadline had already been missed. So 
the key period is between when Mrs J submitted her online claim form (13 February 2020) 
and when the deadline expired (17 March 2020). 
Mrs J has submitted a statement in which she confirms that she had phoned Amtrust on 18 
and 28 February and 9 and 23 March 2020 to tell them that she wished to progress her claim 
and would like to use L to do so. Amtrust said in their complaint response that theyd 
searched their systems and had no records of any incoming calls from Mrs J during that 
period. 
There is a record of Mrs J having contacted the legal helpline (which was run by L and was a 
benefit of cover under the policy) on 23 March 2020. During this call Mrs J asked for an 
update on what was happening with her claim. But by this point, the important deadline had 
already passed. In cases like this where there is conflicting evidence, I have to make a decision on the 
balance of probability. Mrs J says there were earlier calls to Amtrust. Amtrust say they have 
no record of these. Whilst I appreciate Mrs J may well have made calls to various parties 
such as her main home insurer and potentially L, I think its more likely than not that if shed 
contacted Amtrust, there would have been records of this. 
This is further supported by an email dated 2 April 2020 from Amtrust to Mrs J. This said that 
they hadnt received a response to their previous emails of 18 and 24 March 2020. And that 
if she wanted her claim to progress to the next stage (which was for L to complete a legal 
assessment), she should let them know. 
Ultimately Mrs J first submitted her claim form in February 2020 and the deadline she had to 
meet in relation to the ACAS process was on 17 March and this was missed. I dont think 
this was missed because of errors or omissions that Amtrust are responsible for. I appreciate 
there is a further issue now the claim has been allowed by the tribunal and Amtrust have 
made a subsequent decision to not provide cover. That is beyond the scope of this complaint 
and isnt something I can comment on here. 
But for this complaint, I dont think Amtrust need to do anything further or that they need to 
reimburse Mrs J the costs she incurred in pursuing the matter outside of her insurance 
cover. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman