DRN-2038019
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of their claim made under 
the Legal Expenses Insurance (LEI) section of their home insurance policy. They believe 
Avivas handling of the matter meant they had to resolve matters at judicial mediation, rather 
than an employment tribunal which resulted in a less favourable outcome. 
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
For ease of reading, Ill mostly only refer to Mr H.
 
What happened
 The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. In late 2016 Mr and Mrs H made a claim to Aviva, 
they wanted assistance to make a claim against Mr Hs former employer for constructive 
dismissal and discrimination. 
Mr H already had representation from a direct access barrister E, and he wanted that to 
remain in place. Aviva obtained a barristers opinion on whether or not the intended claim 
had reasonable prospects of success  which was a requirement for cover under the policy. 
The barrister concluded the claim didnt have greater than 51% prospects of success. Aviva 
declined to provide further assistance on the basis of this opinion. 
In early 2017 Mr H submitted further information and wanted to contest the barristers 
opinion. Aviva passed this to the barrister, but it didnt change his opinion on the claim. In 
March 2017 Mr H advised he would be obtaining his own barristers opinion. This was 
provided to Aviva in June 2017 and confirmed that part of the claim had a 55% chance of 
success. 
Aviva accepted the claim and asked that Mr H forward their terms of business to his 
barrister, so they could be appointed under the terms of the policy. Mr H was concerned that 
the terms of business referred to a solicitor rather than a barrister. He was also worried that
the terms referred to the fees being capped at £150 per hour. Aviva responded to these 
concerns but didnt hear back from Mr H or the barrister, so the claim didnt continue. 
Mr and Mrs H got back in touch with Aviva in October 2019, raising a complaint about what 
happened. They were unhappy with how the claim had been handled. Aviva considered the 
complaint and overall didnt think theyd done anything wrong. But they did acknowledge that 
they should have reimbursed Mr and Mrs H for the cost of their supportive barristers 
opinion. Mr H says that they incurred costs of both a conference and the barristers time in 
drafting his opinion. Aviva said theyd pay the cost of the opinion, but that theyd only pay 
50% of the cost of the conference as that wasnt something that was covered. 
Mr H remained unhappy and referred the matter to our service. He blames Aviva for him 
having to mediate a settlement with his former employer without representation. He would 
like Aviva to pay compensation, damages and also to make up the difference between the 
settlement he achieved and what their barrister said the claim was worth (around £50,000).
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. In 
summary, she thought Aviva had handled the claim fairly. But she thought Aviva should have 
reimbursed the cost of the barristers opinion sooner and that the full cost of the conference 
should be included. So, she recommended that the remaining 50% of the conference cost be 
paid and that 8% simple interest be added from when Aviva received the opinion until the 
date of settlement. 
Aviva disagreed, they said the cost of the conference isnt covered, but theyd paid half in an 
effort to treat Mr H fairly. They also said it wasnt reasonable for interest to be added as Mr H 
had waited around two years to make the complaint. 
Mr H also disagreed, he made further detailed submissions explaining why he believed 
Aviva were at fault.
In January 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made detailed submissions to support his position on this complaint. Ive read and 
considered everything that has been sent in  but I dont intend to respond in similar detail. 
So, if I dont mention a particular comment or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent 
seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
intended decision. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service.
Mr Hs policy says: If, in the lawyers opinionthe prospects of success are no longer in 
your favourthen we will not pay any further costs and expenses towards it. It also says 
that having prospects of success means it is more likely than not that you will recover 
damages or obtain any other legal remedy which we have agreed to.
Terms like this are very common to this type of insurance and I dont think this term is 
inherently unfair. Litigation can be expense and a privately paying client wouldnt generally 
continue legal action they were advised was likely to be unsuccessful, so I dont think an 
insurer should have to either. 
Aviva themselves arent legal experts. I think it is fair that they rely on suitably qualified legal 
advice when making a decision about a claim, unless that advice is so obviously wrong that 
a layperson could identify this. The barrister Aviva asked to consider the prospects of Mr Hs 
claim said in their opinion I write to advise you that your case does not have a greater than 
51% prospect of success. Your case does not therefore meet the standards for legal 
expense cover. 
Its generally accepted that positive prospects of success mean a claim has a 51% or 
greater chance of succeeding. Mr H points out that the wording the barrister used means the 
chances arent greater than 51%, which he took that to mean they were 51% and therefore 
positive. Ive considered this but I dont agree. Whilst I agree the barrister could have been 
more careful in his wording on this point, the opinion as a whole and indeed the following 
sentence as quoted above make clear that it isnt a supportive opinion. Overall, I dont think 
the barristers opinion is obviously wrong and I think it was fair for Aviva to rely on it. 
When Mr H submitted further information, this was passed to the barrister and he responded 
to say the new information didnt change his mind. Broadly speaking, this is what Id expect 
Aviva to do, pass new information on to see if it made a difference. When it didnt, I dont 
think they were wrong to not change their position on the claim. Following on from this, in December 2016, Aviva explained that Mr H could provide his own 
barristers opinion and that if this was supportive, the claim could be considered further. 
They also explained that if Mr H intended to pursue this, he should contact them to be sure 
the barrister he intended to use had a similar year of call and experience to the one Aviva 
had used. 
Mr H doesnt feel Aviva responded adequately to his enquiries (made in March 2017 and 
after) about the experience required for a barrister as well as other requirements under the 
policy for cover. I agree Aviva could have been clearer, they shared the year of call of the 
barrister theyd used but didnt mention the relevant experience. That said, I do think to an 
extent it would have been self-evident that it ought to be a barrister with experience of 
employment law, given the circumstances of Mr Hs claim.
I appreciate that around this time the legal action was progressing and so I accept that this 
would have been a difficult and stressful time for Mr H. But until the requirements of cover 
are met and Aviva accept the claim, they arent responsible for this. And whilst not perfect, I 
dont think their responses to the queries made were so poor that they need to do anything 
further. 
Ultimately, Mr H submitted a positive prospects assessment at the end of June 2017. Shortly 
afterwards Aviva advised the policy requirements had been met and forwarded the terms of 
appointment for Mr H to share with his barrister. Mr H raised concerns that the document 
referred to a solicitor, rather than a barrister and also with the hourly rate which he felt was 
insufficient. 
Aviva provided an updated form which referred to a barrister and said they would be happy 
to discuss the hourly rate with Mr Hs barrister. Mr H says this was a crucial time in 
proceedings and it wasnt his job to vet an agreement between his barrister and Aviva. I 
understand that the dispute settled through judicial mediation. Avivas next contact from Mr 
and Mrs H was in October 2019 when they raised a complaint.
Here, Aviva provided Mr H with the terms of appointment and offered to discuss these 
further with his barrister if he found them to be unacceptable or that the hourly rate was too 
low. It is not uncommon for there to be some negotiation between a non-panel solicitor or 
barrister with regard to an hourly rate. Neither Mr H nor the barrister contacted Aviva until 
much later. 
Mr H says it wasnt clear that he was expected to pass the terms of appointment on to the 
barrister. I dont agree this is the case.  Ive seen both a note of a call between Mr H and 
Aviva on 5 July 2017 and also an email sent to him the same day. The call note says: 
insured will pass TOB (terms of business) on to barrister. And the email says Please see 
the attached terms of business for [the barristers] perusal and completion. So, I think Aviva 
did enough to explain what was expected here and if Mr H had asked Aviva to send this 
directly to the barrister, I think its likely they would have done. And whilst I accept Mr H 
disputes the accuracy of the call note, the email that followed is clear.  
So overall, I dont think Aviva are liable for the consequences of Mr Hs decision to continue 
without representation. Aviva offered to discuss the terms further and this offer wasnt taken 
up. I dont agree that Aviva mishandled the claim and I dont think they are liable to pay for 
any perceived shortfall in the settlement that Mr H achieved. So, all that remains to consider 
is the costs of the barristers opinion and the settlement of the same.
The policy says: If you do not agree with our lawyers opinion and you find a different 
lawyer, at your own cost who supports your view, then we will be happy to offer a review of the case We will pay for the cost of this review and should they decide in your favour we 
will also pay any cost that you incurred for your chosen lawyers second opinion.
Ive seen the invoice submitted by Mr H to Aviva which evidences the work done by their 
barrister. This includes £1,020 to advise via conference on Tuesday 13 March 2017 and 
£1,440 for further advice on 12 June 2017. Given the date of the further advice Im 
satisfied the amount from 12 June 2017 refers to the preparation of the barristers opinion 
which itself was dated later the same month. 
Its less clear whether the costs of the conference that took place around three months 
earlier can be said to relate to obtaining the barristers opinion. Unfortunately, the barrister 
involved has now retired and so further clarity on this point cant be obtained. But Mr Hs own 
submissions to our service say that in March 2017 he arranged and attended a meeting with 
an experienced barrister to help clarify my position with regard to both the employment 
tribunal and my claim for legal expenses insurance cover.
As such, I think its more likely than not the Mr H benefitted from some general advice from 
the barrister in relation to his dispute with his former employer during that consultation. I 
dont consider it likely that the full cost was incurred for the chosen lawyers second opinion 
as required by the policy. Particularly as that opinion wasnt then drafted for a further three 
months. I also note that Mr H says as the policy term refers to any cost that his time, travel 
expenses, stationary and printing should all be included. Ive considered this but I dont 
agree that is the intention of the term. In any case. I think any such costs would be relatively 
modest. I also dont think this term means it would be fair for Mr or Mrs H to be paid for their 
time. I think that Avivas offer to pay half of the consultation fee, on limited evidence that it 
directly related to the drafting of the opinion from June 2017, is generous. So, even if I felt 
additional costs such a stationary and printing ought to be included, I think what Aviva have 
paid can fairly be considered to include any ancillary costs that Mr and Mrs H might have 
incurred.
Aviva sent Mr H a cheque for £1,950 on 14 January 2020. I agree with our investigator that 
when Aviva explained the process for Mr H obtaining his own barristers opinion, they could 
have made clearer that they would have reimbursed the cost of this if it was supportive. I 
think it would have been good industry practice for them to do so. I also think if they had 
done so, Mr H would have submitted the invoice and claimed back the costs far sooner than 
he did. 
And whilst I accept Mr H didnt raise a complaint for quite some time, ultimately, had he not 
done so, he might not have been reimbursed at all. In these circumstances, I think it would 
be fair for Aviva to pay 8% simple interest on the £1,950 that has already been paid. Aviva 
received the barristers opinion in question at the end of June 2017. I think its likely, that 
even if things had gone perfectly, it would have taken a couple of weeks to obtain the 
evidence of invoices and to raise the payment. So, I think the interest should be calculated 
between 15 July 2017 and 14 January 2020 when payment was sent. 
Summary
Even if there were failings by Aviva in relation to sharing what was required to arrange a 
barristers opinion, ultimately, an opinion was provided and the claim accepted. It was then 
Mr and Mrs H who broke contact with Aviva and didnt further pursue their claim until raising 
a complaint some time later. Aviva were still prepared to discuss the appointment of Mr Hs 
barrister and this offer was never responded to. In my opinion that is the most significant 
factor in why the claim never went any further and I dont think the responsibility for that lies 
with Aviva. I agree Aviva should have been clearer that they would meet the costs of a positive 
assessment and that this should have been paid sooner, which is why Im proposing to make 
the interest award as described. Ive also considered Mr Hs point that if this had been made 
clearer at the time, and promptly settled, they then would have had money to appoint 
representation at mediation. But there was a route to have a barrister appointed under the 
policy, by having them consider the terms of business with Aviva and respond. And this 
wasnt taken at the time, so I dont think Avivas lack of clarity about them paying for the 
barristers opinion impacts on whether they are liable for Mr Hs perceived shortfall in the 
settlement achieved.
My provisional decision
For the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from either 
Aviva Insurance Limited or Mr and Mrs H, Im intending to uphold this complaint in part and 
direct that:
Aviva Insurance Limited pay Mr and Mrs H 8% simple interest per year on the sum of £1,950 
from 15 July 2017 to14 January 2020.
Both Aviva and Mr H made some further points which Ill address below. Now both parties 
have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought about Mr Hs further submissions, but Im not persuaded to deviate 
from the outcome Ive previously explained. I know this is disappointing, so Ill explain why. 
Where Mr H has reiterated points I feel Ive already addressed, I wont be expanding beyond 
what Ive said in my provisional decision. 
Mr H says that Aviva wont confirm the name and experience of the barrister they used for 
their opinion. He also says Aviva should had shared the terms of appointment (when he was 
seeking his own barristers opinion). I can understand his point, but I dont agree this is the 
case. At that time Mr H was seeking a legal opinion as to the prospects of his legal claim. It 
doesnt necessarily follow that the barrister completing the prospects assessment will go on 
to be appointed under the policy. The claim wouldnt be accepted without positive prospects. 
Its only after this had been established that the claim would move on to either the appointing 
of a panel solicitor or other legal professional if appropriate. So I dont think Aviva ought to 
have shared the terms of appointment at that stage. For completeness, I dont think Aviva 
are being unreasonable when refusing to share the name and contact details of the barrister 
they used  but Im satisfied the barrister was suitably qualified to assess the claim and that 
is was reasonable for Aviva to rely on the opinion. 
Much of Mr Hs further submissions centre on the clarity or otherwise of the terms of 
appointment for consideration by his barrister. He believes them to be unsuitable for a 
variety of reasons that include both the Bar Standard Board Rules and the hourly rate. But 
the key issue here is that Mr H was in effect vetting the agreement before passing it on to 
his barrister for consideration (as Im satisfied it was agreed he would do). After Aviva had 
amended the document it still wasnt to Mr Hs satisfaction. Indeed his further submissions 
highlight that he would pass it on once the terms were suitably revised. If Mr H had just passed the terms on, I think his barrister would have been better placed to 
have assessed whether or not the terms were acceptable to him and he could then have 
taken this up with Aviva. Its likely the barrister would also have known that there is, on 
occasion, some negotiation as to an hourly rate. Alternatively, had Mr H asked Aviva to send 
the terms directly to his barrister, I think its more likely than not that they would have done. 
From Avivas perspective, the terms had been shared with Mr H to pass to his barrister. I 
dont think they ought to have done more. 
I appreciate that by this point the date for Mr Hs judicial mediation was imminent. I would 
have thought that would have resulted in the prompt sharing of the terms with the barrister 
for consideration. But with a positive prospects assessment only being provided around a 
month earlier, the time for appointment of a legal representative was always going to be 
subject to tight timelines. I dont think Avivas responses were the dominant reason for Mr H 
running out of time. 
Overall, I remain satisfied that the primary reason the claim didnt proceed was because 
contact with Aviva was broken by Mr H. Aviva remained happy to discuss the terms of 
appointment and didnt hear again until the complaint that was made later. 
Mr H maintains that the conference costs were incurred for the assessment of the prospects. 
He says the delay between the conference and the drafting of the opinion was due to him 
awaiting having personal funds available to instruct this. Again, Ive considered this. Avivas 
barrister made their assessment without a conference. And I accept part of the conference 
most likely assisted in the writing of the opinion. But, I still think its more likely than not that 
the cost of the conference wasnt solely incurred to enable the prospects assessment. As 
such, I maintain that Avivas offer to pay half of this was fair. 
Aviva said that my provisional decision reached the same outcome as our investigator. I 
dont agree this is the case, our investigator recommended that the full cost of the barristers 
consultation fee ought to be paid as part of the claim. I concluded it didnt. 
Aviva said my provisional decision was punitive and contradictory. They pointed out Id found 
their offer to pay half the consultation fee to be generous but yet I was asking them to pay 
more in lieu of interest. Ive considered this and I dont believe this to be a contradictory 
stance. 
I have to make my decision on the available evidence and efforts were made 
(unsuccessfully) to obtain further details of the conference with the barrister. On that basis, 
as Ive said above, I think its likely that part (but not all) of that conference was of use in 
preparing the barristers opinion and would therefore be due for payment under the policy. 
My reference to it being generous referred to Aviva reaching the decision to pay half without 
evidence of specifically what was discussed in the conference, rather than implying that 
more was paid than ought to have been. Overall, I think the amount Aviva paid Mr H was 
fair, but I maintain for the reasons explained above that it ought to have been paid sooner. I 
acknowledge this was something that Aviva themselves picked up on in response to the 
complaint. But I still think there was a failing by Aviva to point this out at the relevant time 
during the claim and that the fair and reasonable outcome is to pay interest in the way Ive 
described. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Aviva Insurance Limited must pay Mr and Mrs H 8% simple interest per year on the sum of 
£1,950 to be calculated between 15 July 2017 to 14 January 2020.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman