DRN-3400578
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs D are unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE turned down a claim they made on 
their wedding insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A and Mrs D had wedding insurance with Great Lakes. They were originally due to get 
married at an overseas venue in August 2020 but rescheduled for July 2021. However, in 
June 2021 they cancelled the wedding as Covid-19 restrictions in the country they were 
travelling to meant they and their guests would need to quarantine on arrival. They made a 
claim to Great Lakes for the costs theyd incurred. 
Great Lakes turned down the claim. It said the policy did provide cover where the venue was 
unable to hold the wedding due to an outbreak of infectious or contagious disease. But in 
this case the venue had confirmed they remained open and could have held the wedding. 
And a requirement to quarantine wasnt an insured event under the policy. 
Our investigator agreed the claim wasnt covered by the policy and thought Great Lakes had
acted fairly in turning this down. Mr A and Mrs D didnt agree. They said while the venue 
remained open it wouldnt have been able to host a wedding guests couldnt attend. They 
thought on a fair and reasonable basis the claim should be covered. So I need to reach a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr A and Mrs D s policy doesnt cover them for every eventuality. Under the cancellation
section, theyre covered for a specified list of events. That includes the booked venue for
the wedding or wedding reception being unable to hold your wedding due to an outbreak of
infectious or contagious disease, damage to the venue, murder or suicide at the premises or
closure of the venue by the relevant authority.
I appreciate the difficulties Mr A and Mrs D (and their guests) would have had in attending 
their wedding. I can see the restrictions in place in their destination country would have 
required UK nationals to self isolate on arrival for 5 days (or longer if they were unable to 
present a negative COVID test). I understand why in that situation they felt unable to go 
ahead with their wedding as planned. 
But that doesnt mean cover for the costs they incurred is available under the terms of their 
policy. For that to be the case the circumstances need to fall within the above terms. The 
terms dont define infectious or contagious disease but I think its reasonable to say Covid-19 
(a global pandemic) would be covered by that. However, I dont think that prevented the 
booked venue from hosting Mr A and Mrs Ds wedding. The venue told Great Lakes they 
were open on at the time and so would have been able to host the wedding. 
Mr A and Mrs D say it was nevertheless impractical for the venue to have held a wedding for 
UK nationals as attendees would still have been in quarantine on the date the wedding was 
due to take place. However, the wording of the policy is that the venue is unable to hold 
your wedding. I think a reasonable interpretation of that term is something related to Covid-
19 has impacted that venue and prevented it from hosting the wedding (for example an 
outbreak of Covid-19 amongst key staff).
That isnt what happened in this case. The reason the wedding couldnt go ahead was
because although Mr A and Mrs D (and their guests) could have reached the venue theyd 
likely still have been isolating on the day it was due to take place. I appreciate that isolation 
was itself a result of Covid-19 but I dont think that means the booked venue was prevented 
from holding the wedding. The only circumstances where cancellation is covered as a result 
of an inability to reach the wedding or wedding reception is where thats due to adverse 
weather conditions. That isnt what happened here. 
I appreciate why Mr A and Mrs D felt they had to cancel their wedding. I understand theyve 
incurred a significant financial loss as a result of that. But the reasons for that cancellation 
arent an insured event under the terms of the policy they took out. And taking everything 
into account I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly in turning down the claim they made. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 18 May 
2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman