DRN-2578192
The complaint
Mrs A is complaining about the customer service she received from Wesleyan Financial 
Services Ltd when looking for critical illness cover.  
What happened
In 2018, Mrs A was looking for critical illness cover (CIC), and asked Wesleyan to provide 
quotes. She told Wesleyan shed already approached one particular provider and, she says, 
she told them theyd rejected her application due to a medical condition.
Wesleyan recommended trying the same provider again. They said it was the best provider 
for what Mrs A wanted. And they thought the provider would accept Mrs As medical 
condition. Mrs A says she was reluctant but accepted the Wesleyan consultants advice. 
Unfortunately, her application was eventually rejected again. Before Mrs A and Wesleyan 
had time to approach alternative providers, Mrs A was diagnosed with another medical 
condition. She contacted Wesleyan to ask if shed be able to get CIC but says she didnt 
hear any further from them.
Mrs A complained to Wesleyan. She was upset that Wesleyan had wasted her time by 
approaching a provider that had already said they wouldnt cover Mrs A due to her health. 
And she was upset that the Wesleyan consultant hadnt provided the additional quotes she 
asked for after she was diagnosed with the second medical condition.
Wesleyan didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. They said the consultant didnt know that Mrs As 
previous application for CIC had been rejected. And they said the provider had indicated to 
the consultant that theyd consider a further application by Mrs A. Wesleyans final response 
letter states the consultant had no reason to believe Mrs A would be declined cover based 
on the medical information available.
In this letter, Wesleyan also said that further conversations took place between Mrs A and 
the consultant into 2019. In February 2019, Mrs A was having medical tests so Wesleyan 
wrote to Mrs A explaining that theyd look into alternative CIC providers when the medical 
tests were finished. Wesleyan also said that although Mrs A had emailed the Wesleyan 
consultant asking about alternative quotes, the consultant had told Mrs A at the time that he 
couldnt discuss the details over email because of data protection concerns and asked for a 
phone conversation. But the consultant was unable to get hold of Mrs A on the phone so the 
matter was never resolved.
Mrs A wasnt happy and brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator thought 
things could have gone better. She said Wesleyan should have been aware that it was likely 
Mrs As second application to the same provider would be rejected. So she felt Wesleyan 
had wasted Mrs As time in asking her to apply to the same provider again. And she thought 
Wesleyan could have done more to try to speak to Mrs A as theyd said in their 
February 2019 letter that they would contact her. Our investigator said Wesleyan should pay 
Mrs A £100 to compensate her for the inconvenience and stress theyd caused her.
However, Mrs A felt the amount of compensation should be higher. She said at the time she 
was looking for CIC, she needed it to pursue an opportunity in buy-to-let property. She said 
she was looking at properties but had to let the opportunity go because she couldnt get CIC 
cover in place. She thought she should be compensated for the loss of opportunity. And she 
thought the level of distress shed experienced warranted compensation of more than £100. 
Because our investigator couldnt resolve matters for Mrs A, the complaints come to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate Mrs A will be disappointed, I agree with our investigator  both about 
whats gone wrong, and about the amount of compensation. Ill explain why.
Unfortunately, there are limited records available  Wesleyan have told me that their 
consultants calls werent recorded. So, Ive had to base my decision on the limited 
information I have.
Second application to the same provider
Its clear the consultant was aware Mrs A had already applied to the provider he was 
recommending. And, although Wesleyan say they didnt know the previous application had 
been rejected because of Mrs As medical condition, Im satisfied they should have known. 
Mrs A had a letter from the provider explaining that her application for CIC had been 
declined on health grounds. I cant imagine shed have withheld this information from 
Wesleyan if theyd asked.
I appreciate the consultant says he phoned the provider and they suggested theyd be able 
to cover Mrs A. But I think the circumstances warranted a more thorough conversation to 
understand exactly what the issues were with Mrs As previous application. 
I cant say what would have happened if Wesleyan had taken more time to understand what 
had happened with Mrs As previous application. While I think its likely Wesleyan would 
have applied to an alternative provider on Mrs As behalf, I cant say whether this application 
would have been accepted. 
In addition, when we consider compensation, we can only think about what would have been 
a reasonably foreseeable consequence of a businesss error. I cant see that Mrs A told 
Wesleyan why she wanted CIC. And I cant see anyone expected Mrs As medical tests and 
ultimate diagnosis in early 2019. So although it was reasonably foreseeable that Mrs As 
application to the provider might be rejected, Im satisfied the consequential delays and loss 
of opportunity were not. It would have been reasonable for Wesleyan to assume that if the 
application failed, theyd just be able to apply to an alternative provider. On that basis, 
Wesleyan dont need to compensate Mrs A for loss of opportunity.
Communication after Mrs As diagnosis
I can see Mrs A let the Wesleyan consultant know about her diagnosis by text message on 
14 February 2019. In the message, she said she thought that would end any application for 
cover for the time being. But the consultant said he called Mrs A and said hed call the 
providers and find out whether theyd cover the illness. In his testimony, he explains that 
when he did this, the providers generally suggested that theyd need to wait until Mrs As 
illness had been treated before theyd provide CIC for her. But when he tried to call Mrs A to 
tell her this, he couldnt get hold of her.
Wesleyan wrote to Mrs A on 20 February 2019. This letter summarises what had happened 
to date with Mrs As application for CIC. It concludes by saying: you confirmed to me that 
you wanted me to review what other Life and Critical Illness cover options you have with 
other providers. I have made a diary note to contact you, should you wish to speak to me in 
the meantime please do not hesitate to contact me.   
I havent seen anything to suggest there was any contact between Wesleyan and Mrs A until 
Mrs A emailed the consultant in September 2019, over six months later. I agree with our investigator that the consultants letter created an expectation that he would contact Mrs A  
so I can understand why Mrs A was upset not to hear any further from Wesleyan.
When Mrs A emailed the consultant in September 2019, the consultant didnt recognise the 
name on the email account. Having not heard from Mrs A in over six months, he was 
suspicious that it might be someone impersonating Mrs A  and thats why he told Mrs A 
hed call her. I can understand why the consultant didnt want to share sensitive information 
over email given the circumstances  so I think this was fair. Its unfortunate he was unable 
to get hold of Mrs A on the phone. But I think Mrs A could have done more  for example by 
calling the consultant back or suggesting a time that she could be available on the phone. So 
I dont think Wesleyan are responsible for the breakdown in communication at this stage.   
Putting things right
Taking everything together, I think Wesleyan should have done more to understand the 
issues with Mrs As previous application for CIC. And I think they should have tried to contact 
Mrs A between February 2019 and September 2019 as theyd suggested they would.
I appreciate Mrs A thinks the distress she experienced warrants compensation of more than 
£100. But I think this amount is fair. It reflects the wasted time and disappointment of a 
rejected application that could potentially have been avoided. And it reflects the 
inconvenience of having to chase Wesleyan in September 2019 when Mrs A might rightly 
have expected to hear from them.  
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs As complaint. Wesleyan Financial Services Ltd 
need to pay £100 to Mrs A.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman