DRN-2513461
The complaint
Mrs M says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mrs M bought the PPI in 2002 whilst applying, by post, for a new credit card. 
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. However, Mrs M has already been offered some money back for the 
commission Tesco received from selling her the PPI. 
Mrs M still thinks she was mis-sold the PPI in the first place and disagrees with the 
adjudicator. The complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
Mrs M says she doesnt remember fully consenting to the PPI. But these events are now 
over 18 years ago, and I was sent a copy of her credit card application. I can see the form 
gave an obvious choice to either have, or not have, the PPI and Mrs M agreed to add the 
PPI policy by ticking the relevant box. There was also an option to leave this box empty. 
And she signed the application form at the bottom. 
Theres no dispute that PPI was sold to her, and the charges were regularly shown on her 
monthly statements. I therefore think if Mrs M had made a mistake, she would have still had 
an opportunity to clarify what had happened. However, theres nothing to suggest she did 
this. 
I note this was a postal application and so I think the form would have been completed by 
Mrs M in her own time and without any intervention from Tesco. On this basis, I think the 
correct consent was obtained.
This was not an advised sale so Tesco didnt need to make sure the policy was suitable for 
her. The decision about buying the cover was for Mrs M to make for herself. My experience 
of these types of sale is that the application was part of a wider leaflet-based form which 
would have also included some brief details about the policy, including the cost. So I think 
Mrs M would have had enough information on which to make an informed decision. 
I can see ways in which the form could have been set out more clearly, but Im afraid I dont 
think theres enough evidence to say this would have changed what Mrs M went on to do. 
This is because Ive looked at Mrs Ms situation and I think she was eligible for the cover and 
not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. Looking at 
the work she did, I agree she might have had some sickness protection with her job. But this 
doesnt mean the PPI cover wasnt of value to her. It would have paid out 10% of her 
outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim. This would have 
been in addition to any other means she had at that time. So I think this policy was of use.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs M but I think the evidence shows she chose the policy 
herself and in her own time. She would have been able to see it wasnt something she 
needed to have. This means Im not upholding her mis-sale complaint.
Tesco has already agreed to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because when 
the policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium). It should have told her about that. Because it didnt, that was 
unfair.  To put that right, Tesco has already paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC has already agreed to pay her for the commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman