DRN-2916058
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim he made on his motor
insurance policy.
  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 24 June 2021. I planned to uphold the 
complaint, and I thought that Aviva should pay more compensation to Mr P. Because I came 
to a different outcome to our investigator, I wanted to give both parties the opportunity to 
respond with any additional information theyd like me to consider. Both parties have now 
responded and so Im in a position to issue my final decision on this case.
I have copied my provisional decision below  it also forms part of this final decision.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr P got in touch with Aviva to make a claim on the policy. He said that his car
had been damaged by rodents.
Aviva arranged for Mr Ps car to be collected by one of its approved repairers. The engineer
said they couldnt find any evidence of rodent damage and so they arranged for the car to be
taken to a manufacturers dealership to assess the problem. The dealership said they too
couldnt find any evidence of rodent damage and thought the faults with the car were as a
result of poor repair work that had previously been carried out. Aviva declined Mr Ps claim
on this basis.
Mr P says he received poor customer service throughout the claims process  he says he
was without a car for around eight weeks, while the damage was being assessed. Mr Ps
says hes been left out of pocket as a result of Aviva taking so long, he said he had to pay to
use a different car during this time. He also says he got in touch with Aviva on a number of
occasions and they often werent able to tell him where his car was, or what was happening
with his claim.
Aviva responded to Mr Ps complaint to say it had fairly declined the claim. But it agreed it
shouldnt have taken eight weeks to assess the claim and offered Mr P £150 to say sorry. Mr
P wasnt happy with Avivas response and so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator also looked into things. They thought that Aviva had fairly declined the claim
and that £150 was enough to compensate Mr P for the customer service issues hed had.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigator, and in response to his view provided an invoice for
the repair work he had done and reiterated that he had to contact Aviva nearly every day to
try and find out what was happening with his car.
Because Mr P didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything Ive seen, I intend to uphold Mr Ps complaint in part. I have
explained my reasons for this below.
Aviva has declined Mr Ps claim on the below exclusion found in the policy booklet:
What we wont pay for:
Loss of use, wear and tear, loss or damage which happens gradually, loss of value following
repair. Depreciation, failure of electronics, mechanical breakdown or breakage, or tyre
damage caused by braking, punctures, cuts or bursts.
Generally, this service takes the view that its okay for an insurer to decline a claim as long
as its in line with the terms and conditions of the policy  and that it treated its customer
fairly.
This complaint essentially stems from a disagreement about how the damage to Mr Ps
vehicle was caused. Aviva says the damage is down to poor workmanship when it was
repaired previously. And Mr P says it is down to damage caused by rodents. So its for me to
decide if Aviva did enough to investigate the possible cause of damage given the conflicting
information provided by both parties. And if it was fair of it to decline the claim on that basis.
Ive seen a copy of the initial engineers report from Avivas approved repairer. I have copied
some extracts from the report below.
..there is no damage or any sign of rodents, rodent damage inside the vehicle or the boot,
underneath the bonnet the only evidence that could be considered rodent damage is some
slight damage to the r/h inner wing sound pad and a small piece of foam insulation where it
appears may of been chewed at some time (could have been months, years ago).
.On removing the engine cover the foam has got some foam areas where the surface has
broken up but this does not look like rodent damage and I believe is just the degrading of the
foam over time which is not unusual, again the surprising thing is that there is no debris from
this which would be typical if it had been chewed by rodents and looking around the engine,
and engine bay there is no sign of anything being chewed.
Based on this report, its clear the engineer doesnt think the majority of, if any, of the
damage has been caused by rodents. The report then goes on the say that the car has had
some poor repair work previously.
there are clearly very poor repairs that have been completed to the r/h side of the vehicle
there is poor paint work along the r/h side panel work there is still unrepaired ,crudely
partially repaired damage to the body side frame and r/h inner wing area the wiring
connector on the r/h Apost is covered in Duct tape what the state of the connecting plug is
like is unknown as at this point did not want to try and remove the tape, clearly a very poor
repair has been attempted to the side of the vehicle.
The engineer concluded with the below:
This case seem very unusual the reported damage paints a picture of the vehicle in a
considerable state due to alleged rodent damage however this is not the case and if
anything this is the least rodent damaged vehicle case I have ever seen with only a very
minor area that appears may have been chewed but with no debris at all and no other
evidence of chewing of vehicle wiring or pipework that would cause system fault warnings tobe displayed.
Aviva then instructed the vehicle to be checked out by the manufacturers dealership to see if
they could diagnose the faults with the car. The manufacturer confirmed that there were no
obvious signs of rodent damage and that the car had previous poor workmanship.
Aviva had requested an engineer and the manufacturer to provide their opinion on the cause
of the damage. Both have come back to say they dont think it likely the damage was caused
by rodents and that poor work had been carried out previously, which was more likely to be
the cause. I think Aviva has done enough to assess the damage of the car. And I dont think
it was unfair of Aviva to rely on the reports and opinions of the professionals when making its
decision to decline Mr Ps claim. So, it follows, I dont think it was unfair of Aviva to decline
the claim.
Mr P has sent this service photos to show that there is evidence of hair and chewed foam on
his car. Hes also sent a video of what he says is a rodent in the car. Ive thought about
these things carefully, but they still dont change my opinion. I dont think its in dispute that
rodents have been near Mr Ps car. I agree that some of the photos and the video Mr P has
sent could suggest that a rodent has been in/on the car. But the evidence hes sent doesnt
confirm that the damage to his car was caused by rodents.
Mr P has also sent this service a copy of the invoice from the repair work he had carried out
on the car. Theres a section at the bottom of the invoice for the mechanics notes. These
say, we found ABS and engine bay wiring running into the ECU had been chewed up and
shorted out. This does suggest that its possible the damage could have been caused by
rodents. But the comments on the invoice were just comments. The invoice isnt a
professional engineers report. It follows that I think it was fair of Aviva to rely on the opinions
provided in the report it got from its approved repairers engineer and the opinion of the
manufacturer when making its decision.
Based on everything Ive read, I think Aviva has fairly declined Mr Ps claim. However, Aviva
said it would consider an engineers report provided by Mr P, if he wanted to get his own
independent report done. I think this is fair in the circumstances.
Ive also considered the delays in Mr P getting an answer on his claim. Aviva has agreed
that it took too long, and that it should have taken four weeks as opposed to the eight it
actually took. Clearly this has inconvenienced Mr P as hes not been able to use his car for
longer than necessary. Ive thought about this point carefully. And Ive decided that Aviva
needs to do more to put things right for Mr P. Mr Ps car wasnt roadworthy, and so Ive also
considered that Mr P would need to get it repaired before he could use it. So, I think Mr P
was probably without the use of his car for around three weeks as a result of the
unnecessary delays caused by Aviva.
Mr P said hed had to pay to borrow a different car while his was in for repairs, and hes said
this cost him £20 a day. I asked Mr P for more information about this, and hes said he
borrowed the car from his daughters friend. The £20 a day was for fuel and the agreement
to lend. I wont be asking Aviva to compensate Mr P for fuel costs  he would have incurred
these regardless. But I do think Aviva should compensate Mr P for three weeks worth of
loss of use of his car.
Generally, this service would offer £10 a day for loss of use of a vehicle, this is based on
what the courts would usually award. So, I think that feels fair in the circumstances of this
complaint. Because Mr P had been without his car for an unnecessary period of around
three weeks, I think Aviva should increase its offer of compensation from £150 to £210.Both parties responded to say that it didnt agree with the level of compensation I thought 
Aviva should pay to settle the complaint.
Aviva said that because Mr P didnt have courtesy car cover on his policy, he isnt entitled to 
claim for loss of use of his car. It said it offered £150 for the trouble and upset in the delays, 
which it thought was a reasonable amount.
Mr P responded to say that he didnt feel that £210 was enough to settle things. He said 
around a week after he collected his car from the dealership, the exhaust and muffler came 
loose and hung off the car  these things alone cost £230 to repair. He says he had to pay 
for a tow truck to collect the car and take it to a garage for repairs. Mr P added that there 
were also other problems with the car when he collected it, for example it was very dirty and 
scratched. Mr P also tells us that he had to go and collect the car which he wasnt expecting. 
Mr P says the situation caused him distress and inconvenience and an increase in 
compensation of £60 doesnt reflect this, or the thousands of pounds he has had to spend on 
the car.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything again, it is still my decision to uphold this complaint, and that 
Aviva should pay Mr P an extra £60.
Aviva has said because Mr P didnt have courtesy car cover with his policy, he wouldnt be 
entitled to claim for the loss of use of his car. But my direction for Aviva to pay a total of £210 
to Mr P didnt have any relation to courtesy car cover, and I wasnt suggesting that this was a 
claim for the loss of use of car. Aviva should pay Mr P a total of £210 to compensate him for 
not being able to use his car during the period of time where Aviva caused unnecessary 
delays. Mr P ought to have been able to use his car much sooner than he was, and it was 
only because Aviva delayed assessing the cause of damage that he wasnt able to  and so 
Mr P should be compensated for this. I have explained in my provisional decision how I have 
come to a total of £210, and I still think this is a fair amount for the reasons Ive already 
explained. 
Mr P has told us about damage that he says was caused to his car after he picked it up from 
the dealership. But based on what Ive seen, and what Mr P has said, I dont think he has 
mentioned this to Aviva or this service before. It wouldnt be fair of me to make a decision on 
something that Aviva hasnt investigated itself first, and so I wont be making a finding on this 
point. If Mr P wants to pursue this matter further, then hell first need to speak to Aviva 
directly about this.
In addition, I understand that Mr P had to travel to collect the car once it had been assessed 
by Aviva. I appreciate this might have been inconvenient for Mr P, but I dont find that it was 
unreasonable of Aviva to ask Mr P to come and collect his car. Aviva didnt find that the 
damage caused to the car was an insured risk, so it wouldnt have covered for the cost of 
returning the car to him, and I dont think it would be fair to ask Aviva to pay for this. So I 
wont be asking Aviva to compensate Mr P for this.
While I have considered the additional comments provided by both parties, these dont 
change the findings or outcome from my provisional decision. I appreciate that this decision 
will come as a disappointment to both parties, but Im satisfied that the outcome I have 
reached is a fair one in the circumstances.Putting things right
Aviva should put things right for Mr P by paying him a total of £210. If Aviva has already paid 
the £150 it initially offered Mr P, it can deduct this from the total amount.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my decision to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Aviva Insurance 
Limited should put things right for Mr P by doing that Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman