DRN-2962302
The complaint
Mr S complains about the refurbishment charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited (MBFS) asked him to pay when he returned a car to them at the end of a lease.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr S acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr S responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in 
the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
If conditions are not conducive to a through inspection the BVRLA guidance would 
support a further inspection. In this case I can see from the initial inspection 
photographs that there was a lot of moisture on the cars bodywork and I accept that 
the bodywork couldnt be properly inspected in those conditions. It was therefore fair 
for MBFS to conduct a further inspection after the car was collected.
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the first and 
second inspection reports. As follows:
oLHF wheel  the BVRLA guidance says that scuffs up to 50mm are 
acceptable on the total circumference of the wheel rim. I think the photograph 
shows damage was in excess of 50mm and a charge for refurbishment was 
therefore reasonable.
oRHR wheel  similarly Im not persuaded from the images provided that there 
is sufficient evidence of rim damage in excess of 50mm. The BVRLA 
guidance also says there shouldnt be any damage to the spokes. Image 6 in 
the second inspection report shows some marking on a spoke very close to 
the rim. Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence what is shown is 
actually damage and Im not therefore persuaded it was fair for MBFS to 
make a charge for refurbishment of the RHR wheel.
oTailgate  the inspector has used a lined board to illustrate the damage. The 
reflected lines are warped, and I think its fair to say that they demonstrate the 
dent is in excess of the BVRLA guidance of no more than 15mm. So, I think 
MBFS were reasonable when making that charge. I think its more likely that 
damage would have occurred at some point during the three years Mr S had 
use of the car than in the relatively short period between collection and final 
inspection.
oWindscreen - the second inspection shows a significant crack in the central 
swept area of the windscreen. Its certainly beyond the BVRLA guidance that 
says cracks should be no bigger than 40mm. Ive thought about whether its 
likely the damage happened after the car was collected but, whilst I 
understand Mr Ss strength of feeling, I dont think I have enough evidence to 
suggest that was the case.  Looking at the first inspection video and the stills 
provided I dont think the image is sufficiently zoomed in to be able to 
establish whether there is damage. The crack shown in the final inspection is 
beyond not only the BVRLA standard but also the legal limit set out in the 
MOT inspection manual. The inspector wouldnt therefore be allowed to drive 
the car if it was presented to him in that condition but, as the car was 
transported to the auction site, I cant say that would have mattered. As the 
car was more than three years old when it was returned to MBFS it should 
have been MOTd and that would have helped establish if there was any 
damage. But I cant see the car was MOTd until the end of January, after    
Mr S returned it and after the refurbishment would have taken place. So, I 
dont think theres sufficient evidence to suggest the damage happened in the 
relatively short period between collection and final inspection and Im not 
asking MBFS to waive the charge theyve made. 
Putting things right
I think MBFS should waive the charge they have made for refurbishment of the RHR wheel.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to waive the charge they have made for refurbishing the RHR 
wheel.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman