DRN-4252087
The complaint
Mr O complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) provided poor service
and misinformation resulting in unnecessary charges, following an accident claim under his
motor insurance policy.
Mr O is represented by his son, also Mr O, in this complaint. In my decision I will refer to Mr
O (the policyholder) throughout.
What happened
Mr Os son loaned him his car. The car was taken by Mr Os other son without his
permission and was involved in an accident. A claim was registered with Admiral by Mr O,
but this was ultimately declined.
Mr O says he was given misleading information by Admiral to leave the car at the police
storage pound where it was being held. Because of this he didnt arrange for it to be
collected. He says he was later told that he should collect the car. But by this point daily
charges had continued to accrue, which meant he couldnt afford to pay the release costs.
Mr O says he wasnt prepared to prosecute his son for taking the car, which is why his claim
was declined. But he doesnt think his other son, whos car it is, should be disadvantaged
because of this situation.
In its complaint response Admiral says itll pay for storage fees up to the date it told Mr O
hed need to collect his car. This covered a period of eleven days. It apologised for shortfalls
in its standard of customer service. These issues include the time Mr O spent on hold, being
passed between departments and for calls disconnecting. In addition to its failure to add Mr
Os son as an authorised contact when instructed, its failure to send an email as promised, a
delay in issuing a final decision to his complaint, and when asking Mr O to source his own 
garage to assess the damage to his car when it shouldve arranged this.
Admiral offered Mr O £150 for the trouble and upset it had caused him and £25 for the delay
in responding to his complaint.
Mr O didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator
upheld his complaint in part. She says Admiral had given some conflicting messages about
whether the car should be collected. Because of this she thought Admiral should pay the
storage fees up to the date Mr Os claim was declined. She says at this point there was no
doubt that Admiral wasnt covering the claim or any associated charges.
Mr O didnt accept this outcome. He maintains Admiral is responsible for the majority of the
storage fees. He says his son lost his job as a result of having to take time off to deal with
the claim, which has caused a great deal of distress and inconvenience. It has also meant
he had no car. Because he didnt agree with our investigators decision Mr O asked for an
ombudsman to consider his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mr 
Os complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my intention is to not uphold Mr Os complaint. I understand this will be
disappointing for him, but Ill explain why I think my decision is fair.
After Mr Os car was involved in a collision it was taken to a police compound. A call was
made to Admiral to register a claim. During that call Mr O says Admirals agent told him not
to bother having the car released because it would be sorting this out. Mr O says based on
this information he didnt collect the car. At this time, he says the cost of releasing it was less
than £300. But further daily fees accrued whilst the car remained in storage.
In its complaint response Admiral sets out the policy terms and conditions that support its
decision to decline Mr Os claim. The terms under the general conditions section say:
2. Claims procedure
If you or your vehicle are involved in any type of incident, regardless of fault, you must:
tell us about it within 48 hours
immediately report any incident involving malicious damage, theft or deliberate fire to
the police and:
support them in their investigation and any prosecution against the person
responsible
give us a Crime Reference Number within 24 hours, that relates to the incident you
are reporting
Failure to comply with the above could result in the claim being refused and/or your policy
being cancelled.
I understand why Mr O didnt agree to prosecute his son, as the person responsible for the 
damage. But his policy terms are clear that he must support the police, which may include 
agreeing to prosecute the person responsible. I dont think Admiral treated Mr O unfairly 
when relying on its policy terms and declining to cover his claim for this reason.
Ive thought about Mr Os comments that he couldve collected the car earlier. This wouldve
avoided further charges and him being without a car for a long period. I acknowledge his
comments that the charges later became unaffordable to him. And this was caused by mis-
advice from Admirals agent.
We asked Admiral for a recording of the first notification of loss call. This is when Mr O says
he was told he neednt arrange collection of the car. Admiral provided a recording. Ive not
been able to listen to the call due to technical issues. However, the business doesnt dispute
Mr Os recollection that its agent told him not to arrange collection of his car. So, I accept this
is what happened.
That said, Mr O received an email eight days after he called Admiral asking him to arrange
collection of his car. The email says, Can you please arrange collection, as we have not
confirmed we are going to be dealing with your claim.From Admirals records I can see a call took place the day after this email was sent. The call
note says Mr O wasnt going to collect the car because of the previous advice hed been
given not to. In his submissions to our service Mr Os son says they were at the police
storage area a week earlier when the cost to release the car was £100 to £200 cheaper. He
says its not reasonable for Admiral to tell him to leave the car and later tell him to collect it 
after extra charges were applied.
The records show Mr O called Admiral on 25 June 2022. The initial instruction not to collect
the car was discussed. The note says Mr O wasnt prepared to do this now because hed
been misinformed. The agent apologised if this had been the case and said at the time the
claim was registered it wouldnt have been known that the claim would be declined. The note
says Mr O was told he should arrange recovery of the car now so that if the claim is declined
the costs are kept as low as possible. Mr O responded to say he will not collect the car and
Admiral should arrange recovery. Admirals agent confirmed this wouldnt be agreed.
I can see Admiral contacted Mr O by email on 11 July 2022. The email refers to a phone
conversation with him a few days earlier and asks for his garage details so it can arrange to
recover his car there. From these records it appears Admiral intended arranging recovery of
the car at this time. However, around ten days later it explained it was declining the claim for
the reasons already discussed. At this time Admiral told Mr O it would pay for eleven days of
storage fees. But it declined to cover the cost of recovery of his car from the police storage
facility.
I can understand Mr Os reasoning why he didnt pay for his car to be released after his
initial call with Admiral. The business accepts that its agent told him not to collect the car. 
That said, its reasonable to accept that Admiral must first validate Mr Os claim to see if his 
losses were covered under its policy. At the time of his first call, it wasnt known if the claim 
would be accepted. However, I cant see that it was explained to Mr O that he would be 
responsible for further storage fees if his claim was declined - or how long this might take.
However, Admiral did email Mr O eight days after he registered his claim informing him to
arrange collection of his car. It confirmed this again on 25 June 2022 over the phone.
Having thought about this, I dont think Admiral treated Mr O fairly. It told him not to collect
his car initially. Because of this I think it should pay the additional fees Mr O incurred when
he didnt collect his car at the time of his claim on 16 June 2022. However, it was clear by 25
June 2022, at the latest, that Mr O should collect the car to avoid further fees.
I acknowledge Mr Os comments that he couldnt afford the later fees. But the storage
charges are for him to pay  this isnt something covered by his policy under these
circumstances. Mr O has supplied information showing the fees include a £200 recovery
charge plus £20 per day from when his car was taken to the pound on 15 June 2022. It
confirms an outstanding fee of £3,640 was payable as of February 2023. This is a
considerable amount. But at the time Mr O was informed he should arrange collection of his
car - the charges wouldve been around £400. Hes explained that he couldve paid the initial
charges of just under £300, so I think its reasonable he could pay or arrange for money to
be available to pay to release the car when he was instructed to do so on 25 June 2022.
In its complaint response Admiral told Mr O it would reimburse him 11 days storage fees if
he provides the receipt once he has collected his car. Although I dont think Admiral treated
Mr O fairly initially, it did enough to put things right when making this offer. So, I wont ask it
to do anymore in this regard.Ive thought about the issues Mr O describes with the standard of service he received from
Admiral. The business doesnt dispute there were aspects of its claim handling that werent
of a good standard. I dont doubt Mr O spent some time on the phone in contact with
Admiral, and that at times he was passed between various teams and calls were
disconnected. This is supported to some extent by the records provided.
In addition, Mr Os son wasnt added as an authorised party when instructed, and there was
an email that wasnt sent. Mr O was also told to source his own garage to assess the
damage. Admiral confirms this is at odds with its accepted process and it shouldve arranged
a garage to do this.
Regarding Mr Os concerns about complaint handling  this isnt a regulated activity in itself
so, I cant comment on delays in the final decision letter being sent.
Mr O complains that he was without a car for the period of his claim. But I cant see that his
policy provides for a replacement car in these circumstances. The claim wasnt covered by
Mr Os policy for the reasons already discussed. No repairs were authorised so there was no
requirement for a courtesy car to be supplied.
Having considered all of this I dont think Admiral treated Mr O fairly regarding the storage
charges he incurred when it told him not to collect his car initially. Also, for the customer
service issues discussed here. But I think it did enough to put this right by offering to pay 11
days storage fees and to provide £150 in compensation. This is in addition to the £25 it
offered for the delay in its complaint response. Because of this I cant reasonably ask it to do
anymore.
I said I was intending to not uphold Mr Os complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Admiral responded to say it had no further comments to make. 
Mr Os representative responded to say he wants compensation as he has lost his car due to 
Admirals agent being trained incorrectly. He explains that he has a young baby, and his 
living circumstances are dire. He says when this all happened his father was moving house. 
He says he didnt live at the same address as his father, and this made it difficult to progress 
a claim. Mr Os representative says he had to take time of work to deal with this matter, 
which resulted in him losing his job. 
Mr Os representative says because he lost his job he couldnt afford to pay the finance on 
his car or the charges to have it removed from the police compound. He says it was 
Admirals incorrect information that resulted in him not collecting the car. To put things right 
he wants a refund of his insurance premium, or for Admiral to pay to release his car, or 
compensation for its misinformation.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded to change the outcome set out in my provisional decision. 
Let me explain. 
Im sorry to learn that Mr Os representative (his son) is experiencing difficulties with his living circumstances. Ive reconsidered the evidence along with his further comments. But I 
dont agree that my decision should change. 
In my provisional decision I said it wasnt in dispute that incorrect information was given by 
Admirals agent initially. The information was that Mr O neednt collect the car. But eight 
days later an email was sent to him asking him to collect it. The email said Admiral hadnt 
confirmed that it would deal with the claim. Admiral also called the day after the email was 
sent to reiterate this message. The notes show Mr O refused to collect the car because of 
the initial advice not to. 
I understand Mr Os argument. He says the charges wouldve been less had he arranged to 
release the car straight away. In my provisional decision I acknowledged this point. I said it 
was fair that Admiral offered to pay eleven days storage fees. This accounts for the period of 
avoidable charges due to the initial misinformation. But after eleven days there could be no 
doubt that Mr O shouldve collected the car. Im not persuaded that Admiral is responsible for 
the remaining charges. 
Mr Os representative (and son) isnt the policyholder here. Mr O is. Im sorry his son has 
experienced financial difficulties. But I dont think its reasonably been shown that Admiral is 
responsible for this or that there is reason for it to provide a premium refund. Admiral agreed 
to pay £150 compensation for poor customer service, along with eleven days storage fees. I 
think this is fair so, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.       
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman