DRN-2604994
The complaint
Miss K complains about the outcome of a section 75 claim she made to Shawbrook Bank 
Limited.
What happened
Miss K ordered ten double-glazed sealed window units from a company Ill call A  
in September 2019. These were to be paid for with a fixed-sum loan agreement from 
Shawbrook.
Miss K says that she asked A to replace her existing cottage windows and to also supply 
matching windows for her new kitchen/diner extension which was under construction. She 
also says that she told A that the finished installation needed to be unified as a whole with all 
windows matching. 
In October 2019 the windows were delivered. Miss K says that the fitter pointed out to her 
that there was a problem with the finish on some of the windows. She says that she had 
requested all windows have a woodgrain finish. However, the windows for the house had a 
plain finish. The windows for the house were returned and the windows for the extension 
installed. Miss K says that she thought they looked odd when they were installed, but as 
there were no other windows fitted there was nothing to compare them to.
Miss K says that she was told by the manager on site that she needed to sign a satisfaction 
form before they would take away the windows for the house and remake them with the 
woodgrain finish. She said she felt pressured into signing this form but duly did so. 
The woodgrain windows were delivered shortly after and installed. Miss K says that she 
noticed that the upstairs windows looked different to the ground floor windows and that this 
was because one set were double openers and the others were single openers. She said 
she immediately contacted A and advised the manager whod attended her property that 
they looked different to the previously fitted windows. Miss K says that the manager told the 
fitter to leave the windows foamed in so they were partially fitted.
Miss K complained to Shawbrook about the windows not matching each other in 
appearance, how shed been dealt with by A, and her concern that her property was being 
damaged by damp due to the unfinished windows.
Shawbrook didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint. They said shed received what shed ordered 
from A so there was no breach of contract. 
Miss K then referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into this 
and upheld it. She said, in summary, that it was likely that A failed to give Miss K important 
information about the finishes to the windows and the difference in appearance between 
single and double opener windows. 
Our investigator recommended that Shawbrook arrange for the six single opener windows to 
be replaced by double openers, and that the work should be made good and finished to fully 
rectify the entire installation. 
Shawbrook didnt agree and mentioned that there was a price difference between the single 
and double openers which meant that, if they were to carry out the investigators 
recommendations, Miss K would have received goods that were more expensive than those 
she had ordered under the contract with A. Shawbrook also mentioned that samples of the 
window finishes would have been shown to Miss K and that she would have made her 
choice based on that. So, they didnt agree A had misled Miss K in any way or that they had 
breached their contract with her.
As agreement couldnt be reached between Shawbrook and Miss K, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering if Shawbrook acted fairly and reasonably in how its dealt with Miss Ks
claim, I take into account relevant law. In this case, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 makes Shawbrook equally liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. In this case, A was the supplier.
Firstly, Im satisfied that the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier link was in place for Miss K to
make a Section 75 claim against Shawbrook. Miss K, as the debtor, entered into a contract 
with A and paid for the works to be completed under that contract with a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Shawbrook.
Miss Ks complaint is mainly two-fold. The first part is that the windows shed ordered with A 
didnt match, in that some of them had a plain white finish and others had a woodgrain finish. 
The second part of the complaint is that the replacement windows provided by A didnt 
match, in that some were single openers, and some were double openers. 
As Miss K bought goods and services under a sales contract, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
is relevant here. My starting point is the contract entered into between A and Miss K and the 
submissions around what was agreed that led to the contract being formed. 
As position, and indeed Shawbrooks, is that the contract clearly showed that Miss K had 
agreed to five windows with a woodgrain finish, and five windows with a plain white finish. 
Ive looked at the contract and other documentation from the time of the sale. I note that the 
customer schedule of works shows that ten windows were to be supplied and installed, and 
that under the section frame colour, five of these were described as white woodgrain and 
five were described as white. This form was signed by Miss K. So, this document seems to 
support Shawbrooks position, in that there was no breach of contract by A about the 
windows that were to have been supplied. 
However, the documentation itself isnt the only thing that needs to be considered here. The 
discussion and negotiation between A and Miss K prior to the contract being entered into is 
relevant, in that both parties understood and agreed what was to be provided. 
Miss K has said throughout that it was essential for her that the windows match throughout 
her property to create what she calls a unified whole. I find her testimony throughout this 
dispute to have been clear, credible and consistent and I think her actions throughout support what she says. I say this because clearly Miss K wasnt happy with the difference in 
finishes when the windows were originally provided and stopped A from installing all of the 
windows because of this. I think it unlikely that Miss K would have simply changed her mind 
knowing that this would delay her builder being able to fully render the property and indeed 
delay the completion of the renovation as a whole.  
I also find it likely that Miss K didnt choose for the windows to have been different in 
appearance in relation to the how many openers each one had. Again, Miss K has been 
consistent throughout that she wanted all of the windows to match as this was key to her 
entering the contract with A and also because shed been told that the upstairs windows in 
the main building had to be double openers to comply with fire regulations. 
I find it unlikely that Miss K would have agreed for these to have been foamed in which left 
them effectively uninstalled had she felt that she had been provided with what she agreed to 
with A. 
Shawbrook has said that there were valid reasons for the windows having different openers, 
mainly that Miss K may not have been able to afford double openers throughout. Miss K 
disputes this was a factor and Ive not seen any particularly compelling evidence from 
Shawbrook that was indeed a factor. And while Shawbrook mentions that there was a price 
difference between single and double opener windows, that doesnt in my view negate Miss 
Ks consistent testimony about how and why she wanted her property to have matching 
windows throughout. 
I accept that the contract and schedule of works shows something different to what Miss K 
has said. And I note that Shawbrook feels that we have simply just accepted Miss Ks 
versions of events when there is documentation to the contrary. However, the copy contract 
Ive seen in and of itself isnt the only element. The respective parties recollection of the 
events and the discussions that led to the contract being agreed and formed are key 
considerations as well. 
I find it more likely than not that Miss K made it clear to the representative of A that she 
wanted all of her windows to match and that she entered into the contract with A on that 
basis. Even if the contract says something different, as it seems to do here, I am persuaded 
that it was more likely than not that Miss K was given assurances that she would be provided 
with matching windows and that she would not have entered into the contract with A had she 
known otherwise. So, I find it more likely than not that A didnt make Miss K fully aware of 
the differences with the windows once she had informed them of what she wanted. 
Because of this, I am upholding Miss Ks complaint as I consider there was a 
misrepresentation made by A which induced Miss K to enter into the contract with them. The 
typical remedy for a misrepresentation is to put the affected party back in the position they 
would have been in had the misrepresentation not been made. In this case, and as Miss K 
says, that would have meant that she would not have entered into the contract with A. 
However, putting Miss K back into that position would mean that A would need to remove all 
of the windows it has provided and put back Miss Ks original windows in the main building 
and leave no windows in her extension. That doesnt seem fair or practical. 
.Putting things rightI think a fair and reasonable outcome is for Shawbrook to arrange for the single opener 
windows to be replaced with double opener windows and that this is done within a 
reasonable period of time and at a time agreeable to Miss K. 
This would mean that all the windows would have the same finish and overall appearance. 
Shawbrook also needs to ensure all work is made good and finished to fully rectify the entire 
installation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Shawbrook Bank Limited to take 
the action Ive described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman