DRN-3466335
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way BUPA Insurance Limited dealt with a claim on his private 
medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the background to this complaint, so Ill only summarise what 
happened below.
Mr S has a private medical insurance policy underwritten by BUPA. Having had a number of 
physiotherapy sessions approved through the policy, BUPA explained it would need to 
complete a review before authorising anymore. 
As part of its review, BUPA considered a report from Mr Ss physiotherapist requesting a 
course of 12 sessions. BUPA authorised 8 sessions, spaced over a 12 to 16 week period, 
and it told Mr S it would consider another report if his physiotherapist felt more were needed. 
Unhappy with how long itd taken BUPA to carry out that review Mr S complained. He said 
BUPAs turnaround time hadnt been met, it had only completed a desktop review and its call 
waiting times were too long. Mr S also complained about BUPAs lack of contact with him, 
the overall service hed received, and the way BUPA had handled previous complaints. 
BUPA responded to the complaint and explained the reasons for its review. It acknowledged 
it hadnt met its turnaround time of 72 working hours, but said it had authorised a single 
session to take place for Mr S whilst the outcome of its review was pending. 
BUPA also apologised for its call wait times and explained alternate ways Mr S could 
request authorisation. It also explained what options Mr S should select when using its call 
helpline to get through to the most appropriate team, and it provided a direct number for that 
team too. BUPA also set out that it had changed the way it communicated with customers, 
but confirmed Mr S could request something different when speaking to one of its advisors 
directly. 
Unhappy with BUPAs response Mr S referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked at what had happened and thought BUPA had acted reasonably in response to 
Mr Ss concerns, but Mr S disagreed. 
Mr S explained he accepted the physiotherapy review was needed, but said his concerns 
were about BUPAs failure to meet its own service standards and not contact him or his 
physiotherapist when completing the review. Mr S reiterated his complaint and said the 
overall service hed received from BUPA hadnt been satisfactory. He said a tick box 
approach had been taken instead, and he hadnt been compensated for BUPAs bad 
service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S clearly feels very strongly about the actions of BUPA and I thank him for taking the time 
to set out his concerns. While I have considered everything, I will not address every point or 
argument that has been made within this decision. Instead I will focus on those matters I 
consider central to the outcome of this complaint.
For the reasons Ill now explain I will not be upholding Mr Ss complaint:
Mr S does not disagree with BUPA carrying out a physiotherapy review so I will not 
address this matter. 
BUPA has apologised for not meeting its turnaround time. I appreciate why Mr S was 
unhappy at the time, given his explanation of how valuable hed found physiotherapy 
and his previous frustrations with BUPA, so I think it was right of BUPA to apologise. 
I also think it was fair of BUPA to authorise a single physiotherapy session for Mr S 
whilst the completion of its review was pending. Doing so allowed Mr S to continue 
with his physiotherapy sessions despite the delay. 
Mr S may have expected BUPA to contact him as part of the review, but Im not 
persuaded I can fairly conclude that it should have done so. BUPA was in receipt of 
medical evidence from those directly involved in Mr Ss care. It reviewed that 
evidence with its own clinicians and alongside NICE guidelines, and it was able to 
agree to a course of further sessions. Had BUPA found itself in a position where it did 
not have enough evidence to reach a decision, I may have considered it appropriate 
to seek further information, but that did not happen here. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr S found it difficult to understand what he was and wasnt 
eligible for. BUPA highlighted where in the policy Mr S could find its definition of 
eligible treatment and I think was helpful. Should Mr S find himself in a position of 
having further difficulties understanding his, I would again expect BUPA to try and 
help him as it did here. 
BUPA says it changed the way it communicated with customers because of the high 
demands on its service and is unlikely to change its process based on Mr Ss 
feedback. BUPA is entitled to choose the way in which it runs its business and it 
would be inappropriate of me to direct it to do something different here. However, 
given the frustration Mr S has, I think it was helpful of BUPA to explain the alternative 
option that would be available to him. That alternative being a call back request for 
which an advisor would take individual responsibility. 
Despite my empathy with Mr Ss frustration about call wait times I think BUPAs 
response to this matter was both fair and reasonable. BUPA apologised and provided 
Mr S with alternatives ways to get in touch so he did not have to call. It also set out 
the exact options Mr S should select when calling its automated helpline to limit any 
future confusion. And it provided the direct phone number and email address for the 
team Mr S would normally need to contact.
It is evident that at times BUPA did not provide the level of service Mr S should have 
reasonably expected. Mr S is seeking compensation for this, but I will not be making 
such an award here. I am satisfied that BUPA has done enough to recognise what 
happened and take steps to put this right for Mr S  both at the time of his concerns 
and in relation to his future dealings with BUPA too. It has done this by apologising, 
enabling the continuation of care, and providing additional explanation and 
information to help Mr H navigate his way through some of BUPAs processes more easily.
I would like to reassure Mr S that despite the use of bullet points I have considered his 
concerns in the round. Although I empathise with the frustrations he has, I think BUPA has 
done enough and so I will not be directing it to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman