DRN-2120316
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mr and Mrs H payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1994.  
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 26 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to 
rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. 
Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide led them to believe the PPI was compulsory and that their 
mortgage application would be rejected if they didnt take it. However, it wouldnt be fair for 
me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. Where 
someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness 
requires that the person making the allegation should present evidence that this probably did 
happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, 
especially when it was such a long time ago. 
Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mr and Mrs H 
knowing they had a choice.  
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives have argued that, because there was a meeting and 
discussion about the PPI, it must have been recommended. I dont think that follows. 
When we talk about a policy being recommended we mean the seller told the buyer it was 
suitable for their individual circumstances  rather than them just saying that there was PPI 
available and asking the customer if they wanted to buy it. That could still happen in a 
meeting, with the features and costs of the policy being explained  but it wouldnt mean it 
was being recommended as particularly suitable. And from what we know of Nationwides 
sales practices at the time, it  normally just told the customers about the PPI without saying it 
particularly suited them. 
So I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI.
Though, having said that, it probably would have been a suitable recommendation anyway. 
My only doubt is that Mr and Mrs H are saying they had a very tight budget. But apart from 
that, PPI could have been useful to them. Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can 
lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs H 
(the person covered) received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would 
have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And theyve said they 
had no savings to fall back on; and, even if they had had savings, it would have put off the 
time when they would need to fall back on those to cover the mortgage and other living 
costs. So the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs H in a more secure position, if theyd 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
But, as Ive said, I dont anyway think its likely the PPI was recommended to them. 
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained the costs and benefits of the policy. Again, 
Id need some evidence that it didnt do this. And, even if we decide a seller didnt give 
enough information, that doesnt by itself mean the PPI was mis-sold. It would only be a mis-
sale if we think better information means the customer would then have rejected the PPI. 
And, in Mr and Mrs Hs situation, I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information 
about the PPI would have affected whether they took the PPI. Its very likely that at least the 
basic monthly cost would have been explained, given that everyone agrees there was some 
kind of discussion. And the PPI would potentially have paid out for longer than Mrs Hs full 
sick pay (and would have been on top of that sick pay) and they didnt have savings, and the 
cost wasnt significantly high. So, although I cant be sure, I think its unlikely that more 
detailed information would have led to Mr and Mrs H rejecting the PPI.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have been affected by any of these. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman