DRN-2613677
The complaint
Mr D has complained that I Go 4 Ltd cancelled his motor insurance policy and then
charged him too much.  
What happened
Mr D bought a policy through IGO4 online. IGO4 sold the policy, but the policy is provided by
an insurer, which is a different company to IGO4.
IGO4 asked Mr D to provide some information to verify the information hed given. When it
received the information, IGO4 said there were some errors with the address Mr D had given
but it amended these for free. However, it said the 5 years no claims discount (NCD) Mr D
had declared, was on a fleet policy which the insurer wouldnt accept.
IGO4 spoke to the insurer to find out if it would still provide the policy with 0 years NCD. The
insurer refused and said IGO4 would need to cancel the policy. IGO4 sent Mr D a letter
telling him the policy would be cancelled in seven days if it didnt receive proof of his NCD.
When he wasnt able to provide that the insurer asked IGO4 to cancel the policy.
Mr D complained to IGO4 about the amount it charged him when his policy cancelled. He
said hed been charged a £75 cancellation fee, as well as insurance premium tax (IPT) and
50.7% APR. IGO4 said it would waive the £75 cancellation fee.  
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 January 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision, I can only make findings on the parts of this complaint that IGO4 is
responsible for. If Mr D wishes to complain about issues that other businesses, are
responsible for, he would need to complain about that separately.
IGO4 has provided a copy of the questions Mr D would have been asked online when buying
his policy. When looking at the question about his NCD, theres a question mark next to the
question. When clicking on this more wording appears which says the NCD needs to have
been gained on a private car. As Mr Ds NCD wasnt gained on a private car it seems he
gave the wrong information here.
When IGO4 discovered the NCD was from a fleet policy it spoke to the insurer to ask if it
would re-rate the policy based on Mr Ds correct NCD. The insurer said it wouldnt cover
Mr D with 0 years NCD. That was the insurers decision, not IGO4s and if Mr D is unhappy
about that hell need to complain about that separately to the insurer.
I understand IGO4 sent a cancellation letter after the insurer said it wouldnt provide a policy.
As IGO4 is acting as Mr Ds agent here I think IGO4 should have cancelled the policy on
Mr Ds behalf - or explained what might happen if the insurer wouldnt re-rate the policy and
let him know the consequences of not cancelling the policy himself - as IGO4 seems to have
known he didnt have the correct NCD needed for the policy. That means it would be
recorded as him having cancelled the policy rather than him having a policy cancelled. I
understand IGO4 has issued a letter which Mr D can provide to future insurers to say the
policy hasnt been voided or him refused insurance. But as I think IGO4 should have
cancelled it on Mr Ds behalf, I think its fair and reasonable thats hes able to demonstrate
to other insurers that it should have been cancelled by him. As such I think IGO4 should
issue Mr D a new letter that says the policy should have been cancelled by him rather than
the insurer. It should also speak to the insurer to find out if the insurer will amend how the
cancellation is recorded.
IGO4 said Mr D was charged £87.21 for the time he was on cover by the insurer. This
included IPT and the interest on the credit of 50.7% APR. IPT is the tax applied to insurance
policies. This is a standard amount across these types of policies, so is something Mr D
would be paying on any policy he buys. I cant however make a finding on this in this
complaint, as IPT is charged by the insurer.
APR is the interest rate applied by the finance company rather than IGO4 and if Mr D thinks
the amount itself is too high then hed need to complain to the finance company directly.
However, Ive looked to see if IGO4 made this amount clear when it sold the policy and I
think it did. The online sales journey shows both the APR and the total cost of the policy. So,
I think IGO4 made this clear before Mr D bought his policy.
Id only think it was fair for IGO4 to charge cancellation or other fees if it made the fees clear.
Ive seen the terms of business and that says there will be a fee of £75 if the policy is
cancelled. This would also have applied if Mr D had cancelled the policy. I think its fair for
IGO4 to have charged this, as the policy only needed cancelling as Mr D provided the wrong
information when buying the policy. However, IGO4 has agreed to waive this amount.
IGO4 said the premium contains around £30 commission. I wouldnt usually think it was fair
and reasonable for IGO4 to retain commission when it hadnt made clear how much
commission would be. However, as IGO4 has waived the £75 cancellation fee it could have
charged, Im not going to interfere with the commission its retained.
In summary, I intend to find that IGO4 should issue Mr D a new letter that says the policy
should have been cancelled by him rather than the insurer. It should also speak to the
insurer to find out if the insurer will amend how the cancellation is recorded. However, I think
its acted fairly and reasonably in the amount its charged him following the cancellation.
Mr D didnt respond. IGO4 didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said if I didnt think it 
had done anything wrong then it didnt seem to be fair and reasonable to require it to send 
an updated letter. It also said Mr D hadnt complained about the contents of the letter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the complaint Mr D brought to us and am satisfied that he was unhappy that 
the policy had been cancelled and the amount hed been charged due to the cancellation. 
This complaint was put to IGO4, so Im satisfied it had chance to respond to his concerns 
about the policy being cancelled. 
While I agree IGO4 was fair to apply the charges it did as a result of the cancellation, I think 
it should have done more when Mr D provided evidence to show his driving experience was 
on a fleet policy. I say this because it seems to have been apparent that Mr D had made a 
mistake when buying his policy and didnt have the NCD from a private car which would have been required to keep the policy in place. I understand the policy wasnt avoided or 
insurance refused. But given the implications of having to let future insurers know of the 
cancellation and that Mr D seems to have made a genuine mistake, I think it would have 
been fair and reasonable in this particular case, for IGO4 to have done more to cancel the 
policy on Mr Ds behalf or let him know the consequences of not doing so. This would have 
meant the policy would have shown as being cancelled by Mr D rather than the insurer.
As such, I still think the fair and reasonable outcome is for IGO4 to provide Mr D with an 
updated letter which says he should have cancelled the policy. It should also speak to the 
insurer to see if it will change how the cancellation is recorded, to show as being cancelled 
by Mr D.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I require I Go 4 Ltd to provide 
Mr D with an updated letter which says the policy should have been cancelled by him and to 
speak to the insurer to see if it will change how the cancellation is recorded, to show as 
being cancelled by Mr D. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman