DRN-4210964
The complaint
Mrs J complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) refused to register her son as 
attorney on her account. She is assisted in bringing this complaint by her son Mr J.
What happened
Mrs J made a Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA) which has been registered at The Office of 
the Public Guardian. She appointed attorneys and is unhappy that when one of them - her 
son Mr J - applied to NatWest to register the LPA with them recently the request was 
refused. NatWest said the refusal was as the date of birth (DOB) for Mr J on the LPA is 
different to that on his Driving Licence and Passport.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think NatWest were wrong to decline 
this LPA was satisfied it had acted fairly and reasonably as it had a duty of care to 
customers and their accounts not to allow a third party control without appropriate checks. 
He also thought this was particularly important where the account holder might be 
vulnerable. So, he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs J asked for an ombudsmans decision. She couldnt see how NatWests stance was 
justified when theyd allowed the other attorney to register and have access to the account 
when the same LPA also contained the wrong date of birth for her as the donor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As much as I understand Mrs Js frustrations with whats happened, Ive got to look at 
whether NatWest did anything wrong. And, having reviewed all the evidence here I dont 
think they did. So, Im not going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain my reasons.
The DOB for Mr J on the LPA is different to Mr Js actual DOB shown on his passport and 
driving licence. It seems to me everyone accepts this is a discrepancy. 
Its been suggested the LPA is invalid so cant be registered. I can understand why such a 
suggestion would make Mrs J question why her other attorney, named in the same LPA has 
been registered previously on her account by the bank. But the validity of the instrument 
itself isnt the issue here. Rather, I think the central issue here is one of identification. And 
whether the bank have done anything wrong in refusing the attorney access when the 
discrepancy arose.
Our investigators already explained the duty of care a bank has to clients when third party 
access is requested on an account, I agree with whats hes said in the view so wont repeat 
that here. In addition to that the bank are subject to regulations to conduct identity checks 
and to know their client. When something as fundamental as an individuals or applicants 
date of birth is inconsistent - and those most basic checks fail - I dont think its unreasonable 
for a bank to refuse the request to register until that discrepancy is cleared up. So, I dont 
think NatWest have acted unreasonably in relation to the application to register Mr J on the 
account.
In respect of the earlier registration of the other attorney under this LPA any concerns about 
that application would need to be raised separately alongside that attorney for consideration 
as a separate complaint.  
Overall given my findings, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require NatWest to do 
anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman