DRN-3773339
The complaint
Ms I has complained about her let property insurer HDI Global Speciality SE regarding a 
settlement offer it has made for repairs to her property, damaged by the outgoing tenants.
What happened
Ms I found her property was damaged and a loss adjuster, acting for HDI, in November 2020 
said it would cost £48,652.51 to repair the property. Ms I wanted to settle the claim in cash. 
In an email to Ms I in December 2020, the loss adjuster, having noted costs for further 
provisional sums, said the agreed repair cost was £72,278.55. Following some further claim 
issues HDI then reviewed that value. In February 2022 HDI said the provisional sums, which 
had resulted in the figure of £72,000 in December 2020, had been discounted. Also that the 
costs had been reworked based on the initial scope totalling £48,652.51  some figures 
making up that sum had been reduced or deducted altogether and some increased, or 
added  and the final settlement offer was £52,294.46.
Ms I felt this was unfair given the figure shed been quoted in December 2020. She didnt 
understand how that could change so much  she had obtained two quotes around that 
same price, one of which had recently been revised upwards due to increased costs for 
materials. She said she didnt expect to get all of the cost shed been quoted for repairs as 
she understood that as the cash settlement had been her choice, HDI could settle based on 
its costs. But she didnt think, taking everything into account, that £52,29446 was a fair price 
for the work which had been accepted was needed. Ms I complained to us.
Our Investigator felt HDI had shown its offer was fair. Ms I disagreed. HDI advised that it had 
since negotiated an increase to its offer with Ms I to £68,000 (although it didnt tell us what 
made up that increased figure). Ms I asked for an Ombudsmans consideration.
The complaint came to me and I felt that HDIs offer of £52,294.64 was flawed. I issued a 
provisional decision to explain what I felt HDI should pay and also that I couldnt comment on 
its later offer of £68,000. I said:
I intend to uphold this complaint. But Ill explain at the outset that I cant comment on the 
validity of the recent increased offer. Clearly Ms I is still unhappy with that sum and I cant 
say whether it is fair or not as the detail behind it hasnt been put forwards as part of this 
complaint. So I will focus on the matter as it came before us  that HDIs final offer was 
£52,294 and Ms I felt that was unfair. My view is that HDIs final offer is unfair and I intend to 
require that it is increased. Ill explain below why that is and what I think needs to be added. 
The parties will then have a chance to respond and/or they may wish to agree settlement 
based on HDIs revised offer.
The sum of £48,652.51 was originally calculated in 2020. HDIs final offer, based in part on 
the values that made up that sum, was put forward in February 2022. Yet no allowance was 
made for the time that had passed and which would likely have impacted the reasonable 
cost for works. So, even on that very basic point, HDIs final offer was flawed. But Ive then 
looked more closely at the values and amendments HDI made.
HDI removed all costs from that sum for enabling works, including provision of scaffolding, 
and labour costs for preparing damaged walls for painting. But no work had been done at 
Ms Is property  she would still need to pay for enabling work and labour costs for repairing 
the walls. So deducting these sums wasnt fair. 
HDI then took out the costs for removing and replacing the fire surrounds in both lounges at 
the property, and an amount for asbestos testing. I think HDI was unreasonable in removing 
costs for both the fire surrounds  as one was damaged. But taking off the cost of £1,500 for 
one of the fireplaces is, I think, reasonable as I havent seen anything showing that both 
were damaged. And, assuming HDI can share its asbestos tests with Ms I, removal of the 
£264.10 cost for testing, is reasonable. That is because HDI did do the tests, those for the 
house were negative and that for the garage was positive. So HDI should share those 
results with Ms I, and she wont need to pay for further testing to be done. 
So the only sums Im satisfied that HDI can fairly deduct from the initially stated cost of 
£48,652.51 is £1,500 for one fireplace and £264.10 for the asbestos testing. That gives a 
figure of £46,888.41 for HDI to pay Ms I. To account for the change of prices since that sum 
was set, HDI should add 8% interest to that figure from 6 November 2020, the date of the 
scope, until settlement is made.
HDI did though, as I mentioned above, increase some of the figures that made up that initial 
sum. For example  the initial price allowed only £4,000 for replacement windows whereas 
the final settlement allowed £11,616.90. An uplift of £7,616.90. And it also added a cost for 
the garage. The total of the uplifted and additional costs is £13,077.38. Ive not seen 
anything to make me think these additional sums are unfair or need increasing. But that final 
offer was calculated on 20 January 2022 and no payment has yet been made. So this sum 
should also be paid to Ms I now, plus 8% interest from 20 January 2022. 
HDIs offer is also silent on the issue of VAT. HDIs figures dont include VAT and I wouldnt 
usually expect an insurer to pay VAT upfront for property repairs. But HDI should have 
explained to Ms I that VAT on the repair costs would be something she could claim for once 
work was done and VAT became due. The sum of £46,888.41 and £13,077.38 is 
£59,965.79. The cost for VAT on that sum is £11,993.16. I intend to require HDI to pay Ms I 
the cost of VAT she incurs for completing work at her property up to the value of £11,993.16. 
This is to be paid by HDI when Ms I shows it work has been done and what her cost for VAT 
for that work is.
I havent seen anything that makes me think other work is required at the property which is 
not accounted for in the initial or final settlement sums. I note that Ms Is contractors quote is 
for a lot more. But it seems he has included provisional sums. And he has explained that 
these are provisional, for things like decorating, as the true cost will depend on Ms Is choice 
of materials. But HDI has costed the work based on like-for-like reinstatement. And that is 
what the policy allows for. I also see that Ms Is quote includes replacement of both fires  
not just the surround for one of the fires. And I havent seen anything that makes me think 
the fires themselves (or the second of the two surrounds) were damaged. I know Ms I is upset that HDIs original offer of around £72,000 was rescinded. And I do 
accept that she was told that this was the accepted cost of the work. Clearly, for me, that 
sum included figures that werent fully accepted as being necessary  so the £72,000 was 
really the accepted cost of hypothetically required work. But that wasnt made clear to Ms I. 
I think HDI misled Ms I in this respect. I note it has apologised for that. But I think that, along 
with what I have found to be the unfair and unreasonable final settlement offer, has caused 
her frustration and upset as well as impacting the length of the claim. This service views 
upset, frustration and the like to be a non-financial loss. And for that I can award 
compensation. I think £500 compensation is fairly and reasonably due in this instance.
HDI said it had nothing further to add. 
Ms I thanked me for my findings but asked that I review what Id said about several points. In 
summary she said:
The loss adjusters photos show that both fireplaces were damaged. So shed like costs 
for the second fireplace to be added back on.
The initial cost for windows and the garage werent really increased  rather costs for the 
windows to be repaired were initially used but later it was accepted that replacement was 
needed, and the garage was missing entirely from the original scope.
No increase has been made to account for the cost of materials having gone up since 
the prices were agreed.
Ms I also asked that a compromise be reached in respect of VAT. She said shed like HDI to 
pay half the VAT sum as part of the settlement for this complaint, and she will forego the 
rest. That will enable them all to move on as quickly as possible. Our Investigator put this 
request to HDI but it said it could only pay VAT when proof is shown that Ms I has incurred a 
loss in this respect.
Ms I finally asked that we monitor the situation post my final decision to ensure that HDI 
makes the correct payments, and promptly too. She said this is because her health is poor 
and worrying about the final payments, if they are delayed or incorrect, will affect her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the detail from the loss adjuster. The reports make reference to one 
damaged fireplace and the photos show one fireplace, with the damage referred to. Im not 
persuaded that both fireplaces were damaged or that it would be fair and reasonable for me 
to make HDI pay for both of them.
I can assure Ms I that the original scope does refer to £4,000 being allowed for replacement 
windows. And the cost for reinstating the garage wasnt included. Whilst I can understand 
that Ms I might then not see the later sums offered for these items as increased amounts, 
they do equate to HDI offering more in settlement for the claim, as against what was 
originally offered. 
I appreciate that costs have likely changed since the cost for work was set in 2020, and even 
since certain aspects were revised and/or added in early 2022. I have accounted for this, as 
is often the approach of this service, by awarding interest*.
I understand why Ms I would seek to reach a compromise agreement on VAT. But I can also 
understand why HDI isnt prepared to make an agreement in that respect. Quite simply VAT 
is not always charged, and when it is, it only becomes payable once work is completed. HDI is only liable to Ms I for losses. So until VAT is charged and becomes payable, strictly 
speaking, there is no loss for HDI to respond to. I bear in mind that half the VAT sum is not 
an insignificant amount. So, with no loss having yet occurred, I cant fairly and reasonably 
say HDI should agree to the compromise Ms I has put forwards. As such, my provisional 
award  of reimbursement of VAT once VAT is shown as due  will remain.
I completely understand that this has been a difficult time for Ms I and that she wants to be 
assured of a smooth conclusion to this prolonged claim, which resulted in this complaint. 
I trust that HDI will facilitate that. If it doesnt, we will likely endeavour to assist resolution by 
contacting it. But I need to manage Ms Is expectations here  my final decision marks the 
end of our process. Which means we wont be formally involved in progressing matters after 
our Investigator informs HDI that Ms I has accepted my final decision, if she does. I truly 
hope this wont be necessary but Ms I should be aware that this service does not enforce the 
decisions we issue. If a business does not comply with the redress, it is the courts that would 
enforce the decision outcome and Ms I would need to take advice about doing that. 
 
Putting things right
I require HDI to share its asbestos test results with Ms I and pay her:
£46,888.41, plus interest* from 6 November 2020 until settlement is made.
£13,077.38, plus interest* from 20 January 2022 until settlement is made.
Upon sight of proof from Ms I that VAT on insured works is due, her cost for VAT on that 
work up to a maximum of £11,993.16. This payment should be made within one month of 
Ms I submitting reasonable proof of her VAT cost to it. If payment is made after that time, 
then interest* will have to be added to the amount due to Ms I for VAT from the date Ms I 
submitted the proof until settlement is made.
£500 compensation for non-financial loss. 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires HDI to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Ms I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require HDI Global Speciality SE to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman