DRN-2675847
The complaint
Mr F complains that Metro Bank PLC failed to undertake a chargeback process on 
transaction completed using his debit card. 
What happened
In February 2018, Mr F made a payment of £11,857.50 to a dental company by debit card 
over the phone, to pay for his mothers ongoing dental treatment.
When his mother turned up for her appointment in August 2020, the practice was closed. 
After checking the companys website, Mr F discovered the dental company had gone into 
liquidation. This left his mother in a very vulnerable position as some of the dental work had 
been started but not completed. And they had no knowing of when, or if her treatment would 
continue. 
Mr F asked Metro Bank to reclaim the funds by undertaking a chargeback on the basis that 
all the treatment hadnt been provided. 
Metro Bank responded and explained that they couldnt process a chargeback as Mr F was 
out of time. They said that Mr F had 120 days to ask them to process a chargeback from the 
date of the dental practice ceasing trading, however it couldnt be processed after 540 
calendar days had passed since the payment was made. They said    Mr F would have 
needed to have raised the chargeback by August 2019, which hadnt been done. 
Metro Bank said they had followed the MasterCard chargeback guide and so were satisfied 
no errors had been made.
 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Metro Bank had acted correctly. He checked the 
rules listed in the chargeback guide and explained that even though Mr F had raised the 
chargeback within 120 days of realising the practice had gone into liquidation, it had still 
been raised out of time as more than 540 days had passed since the initial payment was 
made in 2018. Because of this, he couldnt ask Metro Bank to do anything further. 
Mr F disagreed. He read the chargeback guide wording and felt Metro Bank should be able 
to attempt to get his money back, and that the 120-day part of the rule should provide him 
with some protection.
 
Because he didnt agree, the case has been passed to me for review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. I will explain 
why.
 
I can understand why Mr F is upset. Mr F has paid a lot of money for dental work that hasnt 
been carried out. But I can only look at Metros actions when considering this complaint and 
whether it dealt with Mr Fs chargeback claim fairly.
A chargeback is not a right but is a voluntary scheme run by the card scheme providers 
(Mastercard) and not, as in this case, Metro Bank (debit card provider). But we take the view 
that a chargeback should normally be raised by the card provider unless it is reasonably 
clear that one is unlikely to succeed.
 
There are strict time limits for raising a chargeback as the investigator has explained. In 
relation to goods or services not being provided, the MasterCard Chargeback Guide states:
 
Applicable Timeframe: In cases involving interruption of ongoing services (in this case a 
course of dental work), within 120 calendar days of the date the cardholder becomes aware 
that the service ceased. A chargeback must not be processed after 540 calendar days from 
the Central Site Business Date of the first presentment.
Mr F first became aware there was a problem in February 2020 when his mother attended 
her dental appointment to find the practice was closed. After checking the website and 
realising the practice had gone into liquidation, he contacted Metro Bank and asked them to 
claw back the funds, on the back of the advice given on the website.
 
I can see Metro Bank registered the request in February 2020, but that they werent able to 
process the chargeback due to the time that had passed.
 
I understand that the rules around chargebacks can be confusing, as it does state that one 
can be raised within 120 days of the date the cardholder becomes aware the service has 
ceased. And I agree this is the case here. 
But it is also the case that this part of the rule doesnt apply if more than 540 days have 
passed since the date of the first transaction. Mr F paid for the treatment in February 2018 
and this means 540 days had passed before he contacted Metro. So I dont think Metro did 
anything wrong when it didnt process the chargeback as the rules dont allow it to in these 
circumstances.
I understand Mr Fs mother was receiving ongoing treatment meaning it could have gone 
beyond 540 calendar days. But this service must follow the rules that are set out in the 
guide, and so as unfortunate as the situation is, Im not able to ask Metro Bank to process a 
chargeback to try and get Mr Fs money back. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr F to hear, and I can understand how frustrating this 
situation may be. I can see that our investigator has provided some information on the 
Dental Complaints Service to Mr F. He may wish to try contacting them, and I hope they are 
able to help him with what is indeed a difficult and unfortunate situation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman