DRN-3163116
The complaint
Mr H complains that TM Advances Limited provided him with a loan he was unable to afford 
to repay. 
What happened
In May 2018 Mr H took out a loan with TM. This was for £2,000, to be repaid over 35 months 
at the rate of £189 per month. The loan was paid up in December 2020. 
Mr H complained to TM that he wasnt able to afford the loan as he had other loans and 
credit cards and he clearly wasnt managing his finances. TM said that it had assessed that 
the loan was affordable, having carried out credit checks and verified his income. Mr H had 
agreed that he would repay his payday loans out of the loan monies. It also pointed out that 
Mr H had made two further applications in 2019 which it declined as his credit repayments 
had increased substantially and were no longer affordable. But it said that these had arisen 
after it made the loan to him.
On review by this service our adjudicator said that although the credit and other checks 
carried out at the time of the application were proportionate, he didnt think in the 
circumstances of the case that TM had made a fair lending decision. He said that TM should 
refund all interest and any other charges and pay 8% interest on any refunded payments.
TM didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to consider whether TM completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr H would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way and/or without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences. Then taking that into account I have to 
consider whether in the circumstances TM made a fair lending decision.
At the time of the application TM carried out two credit searches and verified Mr Hs income 
electronically. Whilst it noted that he had a number of loans and credit cards, it said he didnt 
have any adverse credit and had discussed with him the importance of paying off his payday 
loans with the loan monies. It didnt check whether Mr H was actually repaying the payday 
loans  it left it to him to do this.
The credit search categorised Mr H as High Risk and that he had a very high level of 
indebtedness. Whilst that wouldnt be a bar to lending, it did in my view indicate that TM had 
to proceed with extreme caution.
The search revealed that Mr H had five credit cards, two of them with limits of £4,000 and 
£5,300 respectively, which Mr H had exceeded. He had a further card where he had nearly 
reached the £4,100 limit, and two cards with smaller limits, which Mr H was close to 
reaching.  He had also, in the months prior to the application, taken out eight payday loans 
and another high cost loan. Taking out the payday loans Mr H was supposed to repay, this 
still left him with minimum credit commitments of around £1,000 per month. He had general 
expenses assessed at £1,375 per month. This left him with around £100 out of an income of 
£2,500.
I think that bearing in mind all the issues over Mr Hs credit commitments and the high 
number of personal loans he had taken out, TM should have been aware that Mr H was 
likely to struggle to repay the loan sustainably. 
So I dont think TM made a fair lending decision. It should refund the interest and charges on 
the loan as set out below.
Putting things right
TM Advances should:
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on his loan with it.
pay interest* of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the dates 
they were paid to the date of settlement.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Hs credit file regarding this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances Limited to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require TM Advances Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman