DRN-1649232
The complaint
Mr K complains that a problem with his Starling Bank Limited (Starling) current account 
prevented him from withdrawing funds causing inconvenience and the loss of deposits paid 
for excursions. He also says Starling were aggressive on a call. He would like to be 
reimbursed.  
What happened
Whilst on holiday Mr K had made several cash withdrawals from an ATM on the same day 
but then couldnt withdraw any more. He called Starling and was advised that he had 
reached his daily limit of £300. Mr K says he still couldnt withdraw cash the next day. He 
needed cash to pay the balance due on excursions booked for that day. He called Starling. 
There was some confusion over whether the card was faulty as the issue was just with 
ATMs. But it transpired that a security block had been applied, this was lifted, and Mr K was 
able to withdraw cash, but not until that evening. 
Mr K complained about the problem and poor service saying he was left without access to 
his money. He says hed paid £264 in cash for deposits for excursions. But had lost out on 
the trips when he couldnt pay the balance in time. He says the deposits werent returned.
The next day Starling called Mr K to run through his complaint. It said it would need evidence 
of the lost deposits. Mr K said he didnt have any receipts but would revisit the vendors he 
had booked the excursions on and attempt to get proof. Mr K said this would waste more of 
his holiday and he expected to be compensated for this also. Mr K says the staff member 
was aggressive on this call, changing the tone of his voice. 
Mr K subsequently provided a leaflet with some handwritten figures on it. Starling said this 
wasnt enough to show his loss and asked for a receipt or similar for it to consider. Mr K said 
nothing was available as receipts werent provided in the country he was holidaying in. 
Starling rejected his complaint but offered £20 for the inconvenience of the card not working 
even though this was resolved on the same day. 
Mr K wasnt satisfied and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint. She didnt think Starling staff members had been aggressive on calls and it 
had resolved the problem with the card promptly. She said the leaflet provided by Mr K didnt 
evidence his loss. So, it wasnt reasonable to ask Starling to reimburse him and she couldnt 
ask it to do anything further. 
Mr K said he had provided proof which was typical of what tourists were given when booking 
excursions from tour guides in that country and printed receipts werent available. He said it 
was unjust and biased to expect more to be provided and Starling should provide proof what 
more evidence (of his loss) would be available in that country.
As Mr K doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I know my decision will disappoint Mr K, but I need to consider whether Starling has acted 
fairly and reasonably in line with the terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the account, the law and 
industry good practice in its dealings with him and I think it has. 
Starling says a security block was applied to the card. Unfortunately, it doesnt have records 
confirming why. But it records do show that it promptly removed the block once Mr K advised 
he was still unable to withdrawal cash so I think it acted reasonably here.
Starling has said it will consider compensation if Mr K provides evidence of his loss. I realise 
that Mr K says the information that that he can get and has is limited. But I dont think its 
unreasonable for Starling to say that this doesnt clearly evidence the losses he says hes 
incurred here. What he has provided is a leaflet promoting various trips. There is a 
handwritten price entered against two but only has one date and time written on the top of 
the leaflet. It isnt clear whether this is the full price, or the deposit required or whether any 
payment has been made. The total written in for the two trips is 316 Euros. Given the nature 
of the trips I dont think it is likely both would have been taken on the same day, so it isnt 
clear why both trips would have been lost. 
Mr K says this is typical of the proof of purchase provided in the country he was holidaying 
in. Possibly it is, but Starling did ask Mr K to obtain specific proof of his costs whilst he was 
still on holiday and he said he would visit the vendors to obtain this. It is unfortunate that he 
couldnt obtain something more definitive and I have great sympathy for his situation. But as 
what Mr K has provided doesnt evidence a loss, I dont think it is reasonable to ask Starling 
to compensate him.
In terms of the calls one did become heated but I think Starling remained professional and 
polite and they tried to help Mr K.  It has already paid £20 in compensation for the 
inconvenience which I think is reasonable in the circumstances I wont be asking it to do 
anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman