DRN-3407672
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that Lloyds Bank Plc didnt comply with the terms of a court 
order, which led to difficulties in paying money in and out of the business account. A would 
like to be compensated for the distress and losses.
What happened
A is represented by Mr A, a director of the company. Mr A is also director of a number of 
other businesses. A had its current account with Lloyds.
The events that took place are well known to both parties, and arent in dispute, so Ill only 
describe them here briefly. A court order was taken out against Mr A in his personal capacity 
that restricted the operation of any accounts related to Mr As businesses. These accounts 
were held with a number of different banks, including Lloyds. Mr A would be allowed to 
withdraw money for specific purposes, such as a living allowance. The order allowed regular 
Direct Debit payments to continue to be made. The order didnt say money couldnt be paid 
into any of the accounts.
When Lloyds were notified of the order, they placed a block on As account. The type of 
block applied meant all transactions that didnt require manual intervention were blocked  
including faster payments. There was also a problem with processing the Direct Debits on 
the account. As As clients paid mostly by faster payment, their payments were being 
rejected.
A complained to Lloyds, who looked into what was happening. Lloyds said that they believed 
their interpretation of the court order meant the blocks placed were appropriate. They said 
they could arrange the payment of the living allowance to Mr A, if they were to receive a 
signed letter. But they said that because of a problem at a processing centre they couldnt 
process the Direct Debits or payments into the account. They offered £500 to A to 
compensate for this, but Mr A declined this offer.
A referred their complaint to our service. Before we could look into what happened the court 
order against Mr A was varied, to clarify what A were allowed to do with their account. But 
the problems with payments into the account remained, so A stopped attempting to collect 
payments. After several months the restrictions were lifted and A regained full use of the 
account.
One of our investigators took a look at what happened. They accepted that the restrictions 
Lloyds placed on the account caused A difficulty in making and accepting payments. But 
they also found that Lloyds had made attempts to offer alternative methods of accepting 
payments that did have some manual intervention, which they thought was fair. They also 
didnt feel A had done anything to mitigate the situation by exploring alternatives to shutting 
down the business or chasing missed payments after the account had been unblocked. On 
balance they didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything further and didnt uphold the 
complaint.
A disagreed, saying the block had meant theyd lost all income for four months. Because no 
agreement was reached the case has been passed to me to decide. Before reaching my 
decision, I confirmed with Lloyds that the £500 offer is still available to A. I issued a 
provisional decision, which said the following:
The central point of As complaint is that Lloyds didnt follow the court order. Its not for me to 
determine whether a court order has been followed correctly or not  this would be for the 
court that issued it to decide. 
Im also mindful that the order wasnt against Lloyds  it was against Mr A. Lloyds were 
named alongside several other banks, as they held accounts for Mr As companies. But the 
original order doesnt contain any specific instructions to Lloyds in relation to As account. 
The later variation of the order does include some more specific examples of payments that 
can be allowed from As accounts. But to my mind the order places the onus on Mr A to 
manage any accounts hes party to, to comply with the order.
Lloyds owed a duty to the court to ensure the order wasnt breached. And, I think it was 
reasonable for them to ensure they assisted A as far as they could to keep the account 
running. But, in the circumstances the decision to block any payments to or from As account 
which didnt require manual intervention was a reasonable one. The terms of As account 
allow Lloyds to stop or refuse payment instructions.
Once there was a variation with the court order, I can see that it references Lloyds 
commercial banking department. One clause in the varied order suggests that standing 
orders into accounts would be allowed. So, from this point Lloyds could be aware that they 
could accept standing orders. Lloyds have said they didnt have another blocking 
mechanism which would allow these payments into the account. But this is an issue with 
Lloyds systems and processes, which potentially left A at a loss. 
Having reviewed the correspondence between A and Lloyds, I can see the bank were trying 
to offer alternative methods of payment which would be accepted  such as BACS and 
CHAPS payments which would be processed manually, or cash deposits in branch. This is a 
reasonable attempt to help.
A could also have mitigated their circumstances, such as by asking clients to pay by another 
method that would be accepted, or deferring payments to be collected after the order was 
discharged. Instead it appears A stopped trading, which I dont think is a reasonable 
response to being unable to receive standing orders. So even though I think Lloyds could 
have done more to allow standing orders to be received, I dont consider the loss of income 
A suffered to be the responsibility of Lloyds and so I dont expect Lloyds to cover this loss. 
But I can also see that sometimes the communication from Lloyds wasnt clear, or they gave 
the wrong information   for example saying an emailed copy of a letter to allow the living 
allowance payment from As account would be acceptable, but later clarifying a physical 
copy would be needed. But in that example, the effect would be more on Mr A personally, in 
that he couldnt withdraw his living expenses, rather than on the running of As business.
Lloyds have already accepted that because of a problem with their processing centre there 
were Direct Debits that went unpaid. From reviewing As statements and the information 
provided by Lloyds the effect of this would have been limited to a short period and no more 
than three missed payments from As account. Lloyds have offered to compensate A £500 
for this. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest these missed Direct Debits led to further 
losses to A.When I consider As complaint as a whole, I think the issues with communication and 
preventing the Direct Debits being paid would be appropriate for Lloyds to pay compensation 
for the inconvenience. But I also consider the offer from Lloyds of £500 is considerably 
higher than I would award for these mistakes. On that basis, I cant fairly award A more than 
this.
Lloyds confirmed they had nothing to add in response. Mr A responded on behalf of A, 
saying the court order allowed credits into the account, but Lloyds did not allow any form of 
income into the account. He also said Lloyds did have other blocking mechanisms, as they 
had another mechanism on a different account. He wanted to know what blocks Lloyds had 
available to comply with court orders and what block they applied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity, in this decision Im only looking at Lloyds actions in respect to the accounts held 
by A, and not any other business Mr A may be involved in. Having considered the evidence I 
think the offer made by Lloyds to A is more than fair, so Im not asking them to increase it.
As I explained in the provisional decision, it isnt for me to determine whether Lloyds have 
followed the court order correctly. And I also bear in mind that the original court order wasnt 
specific to As account with Lloyds  it included restrictions on a number of accounts and 
business controlled by Mr A, across several banks. 
Lloyds had a duty to ensure the order wasnt deliberately breached, and to ensure A could 
continue to operate the accounts in accordance with the order. So, I dont find the decision to 
block payments without manual intervention to be an unreasonable one. 
However, after it was made clear to Lloyds in the varied order that the standing orders 
should have been accepted, Lloyds could have done more to help. Mr A would like to know 
the type of block applied, and that Lloyds have other blocks available to them. But this 
wouldnt have any bearing on my decision, as the fundamental point that Lloyds should have 
allowed the standing orders into the account is one I agree with. The specific name of the 
block, or the alternatives available arent relevant.
Lloyds tried to mitigate the circumstances by offering alternative payment methods. Mr A has 
said A couldnt receive any income during this period  but having reviewed the statements I 
can see deposits being made into the account, so that isnt correct. There were other 
methods for A to collect payment, or make arrangements to defer them to such time as the 
account was in full operation. The decision by A to stop trading wasnt one that could be 
reasonably anticipated by the bank, and I dont consider this loss of income to A to be the 
responsibility of Lloyds.
The service provided to A by Lloyds wasnt always up to the standard Id expect, and A was 
given contradictory and confusing information at times. And there were Direct Debits that 
were missed because of a problem with Lloyds processing centre. But Ive not received 
anything to show these missed Direct Debits led to any further losses. Im still minded that 
the £500 offered by Lloyds is considerably more than I would award in the circumstances of 
the complaint. On that basis, Im not asking them to increase it. My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc should pay A £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman