DRN-3148082
The complaint
Mr A complains that a car acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.   
What happened
In July 2020 Mr A was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. At the point of supply the car was around 7 years old and had covered around 
45,000 miles.
Mr A experienced issues with the car. The service light illuminated, and it kept stopping and 
starting itself and making loud noises. Mr A returned the car to the dealer in September 
2020, but no faults were found. The dealer advised Mr A that the stopping and starting was 
part of the cars eco stop/start function  and said that the service light was illuminated 
because the car had been serviced in July 2020o but the service indicator hadnt been reset 
at that  time. 
Mr A continued to experience issues. He reported these to the dealer again but was told that 
there was no fault with the car. Mr A says that the car continued to stop and start itself even 
when the eco function was turned off.
Mr A complained to MotoNovo and asked to reject the car. In response, MotoNovo said they 
had spoken to the dealer, who had advised that it was normal for the car to stop and start as 
part of the eco function. MotoNovo responded to Mr A and said there was no evidence of a 
fault.
Mr A wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said there was enough evidence to show that 
there was a fault with the car which was present at the point of supply. She said that the 
dealer had already had an opportunity to repair the fault and that Mr A should be allowed to 
reject the car.
MotoNovo didnt agree. It said that at the time the complaint was made, Mr A had driven the 
car for 9 months and covered nearly 7000 miles. It said it had tried to contact Mr A to discuss 
his concerns but hadnt managed to speak with him and hadnt had the opportunity to look at 
the video evidence he had provided. It said that because Mr A had raised his complaint 
outside of the first 6 months and hadnt provided evidence to show that there was a fault at 
the point of supply, the dealer should be given the opportunity to repair the faults. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MotoNovo supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second hand car to have 
some wear and tear and to need repairs more often than a brand new car. So, in order to 
uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was a fault with the car at the 
point of supply, as opposed toa fault which occurred due to wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its up to the 
business to put things right. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. 
After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr A has said that the stop/start issues began as soon as he got the car. I can see that Mr A 
returned the car to the dealer within the first 3 months, but no fault was found, and the dealer 
told Mr A that the cars stop/start feature was functioning as it should.
Mr A doesnt agree that the issues hes experiencing are part of the normal functioning of the 
stop/start function. Hes explained that the engine turns itself off when he starts the car, often 
multiple times. Mr A has provided video evidence filmed in September and October 2020 
which shows the fault occurring.
Ive looked at the video evidence and Ive also had regard to the relevant manual for the car 
which explains how the stop/start function works. Having done so, it seems to me that the 
car isnt functioning as it should. By way of example, I can see that the rev counter returns to 
the off mark whether or not the stop/start function is switched on. I can also see that a push 
the clutch pedal in message is displayed, even though Mr A clearly has his foot on the 
clutch.
Based on what Ive seen in the videos and the manual, Im satisfied that theres a fault with 
the car.
Ive thought about whether the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. Mr A 
has been consistent in his testimony that he experienced issues with the engine stopping 
within the first few days of getting the car. Its not disputed that the car was returned to the 
dealer for inspection at the beginning of September 2020. The video evidence supplied by 
Mr A was taken during the first 4 months of the agreement.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there was a fault which was present or 
developing at the point of supply. I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
The car was returned to the dealership in September 2020, but it said there wasnt a fault. 
Because the dealership had the chance to put the car into satisfactory condition at that time, 
Im of the view that it has had an opportunity to put things right and failed to do so. Mr A 
should now be allowed to reject the car. 
Putting things right
Mr A has experienced a fault with the car throughout the time hes had it but despite this hes 
been able to use it. I dont think his use of the car has been impaired to the extent that a 
refund of monthly payments is needed. However, I recognise that the fault has had an 
impact on Mr A. Hes had to return the car to the dealer more than once and spend time 
pursuing a complaint. Hes also suffered inconvenience as a result of the fault, because he 
hasnt been able to reply on the car functioning as it should which has caused him distress.  
Because of this, MotoNovo should pay compensation of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr A.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr A
Refund the deposit and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mr As credit file in relation to the agreement 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman