DRN-4506816
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy AXA XL Insurance Company UK Limited (AXA XL) declined a claim made 
under his watch insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G purchased a watch and a watch and jewellery insurance policy to cover it, underwritten 
by AXA XL.
In July 2023 Mr Gs watch was stolen whilst it was on charge in his workplace, so he made a 
claim to AXA XL.
AXA XL declined Mr Gs claim on the basis they said he hadnt complied with the general 
conditions under the insurance policy to take all practicable steps to prevent loss.
Mr G was unhappy with AXA XLs position and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt uphold his complaint. He said AXA XL 
had fairly declined Mr Gs claim in line with the policy terms.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr G, Ive reached 
the same outcome as our investigator.
Mr Gs watch was stolen whilst it wasnt being worn and was on charge in a pharmacy 
consultation room. AXA XL declined Mr Gs theft claim on the basis they say he didnt 
comply with the following policy condition:
All practicable steps must be taken to prevent loss or damage, and maintain the 
insured item (s) in good condition in accordance with manufacturers 
recommendations where applicable;
Mr G argues that he has complied with the above condition as he says the consultation room 
where the watch was left on charge is a secure and safe place. He says it can only be 
accessed by staff, and members of the public whilst they are with a staff member. 
Whilst I note what Mr G says, I dont agree he has complied with the above policy condition. 
Mr G points out himself, a member of the public could still steal a watch from a secure room 
whilst in the presence of another staff member, as thats what happened to him. But thats 
the important point here, if Mr Gs watch wasnt left on charge and unattended, and was 
either being worn by him, or in a safe area where only he could access it, then the theft 
wouldnt have occurred. 
However, as Mr G left the watch unattended on charge in a room accessible by members of 
the public  even taking into account only whilst accompanied by a staff member, and thats 
how the theft occurred, I dont think he has taken all practicable steps to prevent the loss or 
theft. With this in mind, I dont think AXA XL has acted unfairly by declining Mr Gs claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman