DRN-4353116
The complaint
Mr Y complains Santander UK Plc have withheld his funds and refuse to give them back to 
him. 
What happened
In 2018, Santander restricted Mr Ys account after he received a transfer of around £6,300. 
Santander contacted Mr Y about this payment to establish his entitlement to it given it was 
out of character with the way the account had been run previously. 
Santander wasnt satisfied with Mr Ys explanation and information hed provided, so it 
withheld the £6,300 and decided to close the account. Any other funds in the account were 
returned to Mr Y. 
Mr Y referred his complaint to this service in 2018, and that has been resolved, and closed, 
under a separate reference. Mr Y says he now has new evidence for this service to consider 
relating to their proof of entitlement to the £6,300. Mr Y says he received these funds from 
the sale of an overseas property. 
One of our Investigators initially said we shouldnt consider this complaint as the subject 
matter had already been dealt with previously. But another Ombudsman said that as Mr Y 
had provided material new evidence, we should look at the merits of his complaint. Mr Y has 
added that Santanders actions are discriminatory.  
So our Investigator went onto consider the merits of Mr Ys complaint considering the new 
evidence he had provided. After doing this, they recommended Mr Ys complaint isnt upheld 
 so they didnt think Santander should return the £6,300 to him. 
Some of the key findings they made were: 
- Santander took reasonable steps when asking Mr Y about his source of his funds 
given the transaction was unusual activity for his account. And Mr Ys testimony was 
inconsistent about the source of funds. So its understandable why Santander didnt 
release the funds  
- They information Mr Y has sent in doesnt show a clear reference to a sale matching 
the value of funds received by him. They also refer to ground rent payments for a 
lesser value 
- The evidence Mr Y has sent in doesnt link the funds Mr Y received to that of a sale 
of property  so they wont be asking Santander to return the funds 
- Santander says it is willing to return the funds to the source account if an indemnity 
from the remitting bank is made. But no such request has yet been made 
- Having looked at all the evidence, Santander hasnt discriminated against Mr Y nor 
that it has treated him any differently to other customers. And Santander has followed 
its own processes during the account review, which are in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.  
Mr Y did not agree with what our Investigator said. He has made several points  some of 
the main ones are: 
- The paperwork referred to showing the ground rent is part of a suite of 
documentation relating to the transfer of the deed of land from a local chief to the 
buyer. Mr Y was the seller and had to go to the local chief for some payments to be 
made as they were the original holder of the deeds  
- The buyer of the lands bank has flatly been refused by it to indemnify the 
transaction. Mr Y gave the land to the buyer, a relative, in goodwill
- The original inconsistencies about the source of funds happened because Mr Y lives 
abroad, and his daughter received a call from Santander  and she didnt know 
whether he was expecting any funds.  Mr Ys son then got involved and said the 
funds came from a car sale given his father, Mr Y, had discussed selling it previously 
- Mr Y emphasised that he is being discriminated against based on a protected 
characteristic  his race and country of birth
- Due to his age Mr Y can be forgetful which might explain the inconsistent and 
inaccurate testimony 
As Mr Y didnt agree with what our Investigator said, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. To be clear I will only be considering Santanders actions in relation to withholding 
around £6,300 which Mr Y says he received from the sale of an overseas property. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr Y, 
so Ill explain why.
From the information Ive been sent, Im satisfied the transaction of around £6,300 was 
sufficiently unusual based on Mr Ys account activity and known profile. So Im persuaded 
Santander did nothing wrong when restricting and withholding the funds subject to receiving 
satisfactory proof of its origin.  
It's worth noting banks, as regulated businesses, must comply with extensive legal and 
regulatory obligations. These generally cover the entire period of its customer relationship  
from application to eventually the end of the relationship. This includes Know Your Customer 
(KYC) checks and/or Customer Due Diligence (CDD). 
So any refund of funds should be subject to these checks. Its worth noting these checks 
include not just the verification of a customers identity, but also establishing the purpose and 
intended nature of the business relationship and origin of funds.
Ive seen Santanders internal notes, which include contemporaneous records of phone 
conversations it had when enquiring about the origin of the funds. Im satisfied there were 
significant inconsistencies which would have caused Santander concern. 
Mr Ys son has said he said it was a car sale and he was mistaken. Hes also said that Mr Y is often forgetful. I also note that the remitter, via his bank, said the funds were sent to 
support family. Having considered this, and Mr Ys explanation that he sold a family member 
land abroad, Im persuaded the level of inconsistency, in of themselves, meant Santander 
did nothing wrong by holding onto the funds. 
This brings me onto the information Mr Y and his son have sent us recently which they say 
shows the money received into the account was from an overseas land sale.  Having 
carefully reviewed this information, Im persuaded  on balance  that this information still 
doesnt show Mr Ys entitlement to the funds. 
I say that because none of the documentation shows Mr Y was the owner of the land and 
that he sold it to his family member. Mr Y has said as much in his response to our 
Investigators view.  I note Mr Y says the local chief was the original owner of the land, so he 
had to go to him for some payments to be made.  But from what Ive seen, it appears the 
chief was the owner of the land  any not Mr Y. So I cant say Mr Y sold land he owned 
which funded the money paid to him. 
Nor have I seen anything which shows the amount paid to Mr Y being consistent with any 
sale of land these documents relate to. I also find it peculiar that a ground rent document is 
relative here given Mr Y says he was selling the land. 
Mr Y says he feels Santander has discriminated against him due to his race and country of 
birth. Id like to assure Mr Y that Ive very carefully considered everything hes said about 
this. And I want to make clear I do not doubt how genuinely he feels about this matter and 
the upset Santanders actions have caused him.
But Ive not seen any written policy document to that effect. Nor have I seen anything else 
which shows Santander was treating Mr Y differently because of a protected characteristic. 
And while I appreciate this is his perspective, it is not my role to decide whether 
discrimination has taken place as a matter of law  only the courts have the power to decide 
this. 
I have, however, considered the relevant law in relation to what Mr Y has said when deciding 
what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of this has meant considering the 
provisions of The Equality Act 2010. But after doing so Ive not seen evidence to indicate 
Mr Y was discriminated on the grounds of his race or country of birth. So I havent found that 
Santanders behaviour was improper.
Instead, and as Ive said already, there are many regulations and laws banks must take 
heed of in running customers accounts. And it is in relation to those obligations that I find 
Santanders decision to continue withholding Mr Ys funds was made.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman