DRN-3615210
The complaint
Mr D complains about how Topaz Finance Limited responded to a missed direct debit
payment. He said one payment didnt clear because his account balance dipped while he
was unwell. Payment was only three working days late, but Topaz still marked his credit file.
What happened
Mr D holds a mortgage with Topaz Finance Limited, trading as Rosinca Mortgages. He said 
he appreciated hed missed a direct debit payment due on 28 January 2021. But he said 
Topaz had written to him rather than send a text straight away, and he only found this out 
later, he didnt get the letter at all. Topaz didnt text him to alert him to the missed payment 
until 2 February. Mr D said he then called Topaz, and made a payment straight away.
Mr D said hed never missed a payment in fifteen years of having this mortgage. And he
relied on lines of credit for his business. He said he was being turned down for lending now,
because this missed payment showed on his credit file. He didnt think it was fair for him to
be impacted for the six years that this missed payment marker would stay on his file. He said
this impacted not just his business growth, but also his mental health.
Topaz didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said its Mr Ds responsibility to make sure
payments are made on time. It said hed chosen to make his payments at the end of the
month, which leaves him less time to make up any payments that are missed. And it said
that it only texts once an account is in arrears, which doesnt happen until the month after
the payment was due.
Topaz said the credit file report it had made was correct. And it couldnt just remove this
marker from Mr Ds file as a gesture of goodwill. It said it is obligated to report true and
accurate information to credit reference agencies. So Topaz wouldnt take this marker off.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr Ds January
payment wasnt made on time. He understood Mr D had been unwell at this time, but
thought he could still have managed his accounts and called Topaz to make a payment
manually.
Our investigator said it wasnt unreasonable for Topaz to write to Mr D one day after the
missed payment. And it didnt have to text him too.
Our investigator said Topaz does have a responsibility to accurately report Mr Ds account
status to credit reference agencies. Although Mr D made up the missed payment very
quickly, because no payment was made in January 2021, it was reasonable for Topaz to
record this as a missed payment. Our service would only tell Topaz to change this if it had
acted unfairly or unreasonably, or if an error has occurred, and he couldnt see that here. So
he said he wouldnt ask Topaz to do any more.
Mr D said Topaz hadnt been fair. He said that people arent treated equally by its systems.
Those who pay at the start of the month get the whole month to make up any missed
payments, but those who pay at the end of the month only get a few days to do so.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said that Mr D can ask to change his payment
date if he wants. And he thought Mr D must have done that, because his payments had
changed after November 2020 from the 3rd of each month, to the end of the month. Our
investigator also noted that the effect of this missed payment would diminish over time.
Mr D replied to say that the changes our investigator had noted were not something hed
requested. He said he had noticed inconsistencies with dates the direct debit was taken. Mr
D still said it wasnt fair for this short delay to show as a missed payment on his credit file.
Because Mr D and our investigator didnt agree, this case came to me for a final decision.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Both sides accept that Mr D missed his January payment. Although I understand that Mr 
D had other concerns at the time, as he was unwell at home, I dont think this did clearly 
prevent him from monitoring his account at the time.
I know Mr D didnt receive a text telling him about the missed payment until the next 
month, but I havent seen anything to suggest that Topaz had offered to alert him to 
missed payments immediately by text. So I dont think Topaz was obliged to text Mr D 
immediately when a payment was missed.
I understand Mr Ds view that the payment was made up very quickly, but we know it 
wasnt made up until the next month. And Topazs reporting arrangements mean that it 
counts this as a missed payment.
I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for Topaz to count this as a missed payment. 
And Topazs arrangements with credit reference agencies do require it to provide a true 
and accurate picture of Mr Ds account. Thats part of the contract that lenders enter into 
with these agencies. Lenders want to see an accurate report of how customers are 
paying back any other borrowing they have. And in return for that, they agree to provide 
an accurate report of how their customers are paying them. So Topaz was right to say it 
is under an obligation to provide this.
In these circumstances, I dont think Topaz has to remove this one missed payment 
from Mr Ds credit report.
Mr D also said that it wasnt fair to treat people differently, according to what day of the 
month their mortgage payment is due. I dont think thats right, like our investigator I 
think its a matter of choice whether someone arranges to make a payment earlier in the 
month, or later.
But Mr D told us that he hadnt asked Topaz to change his payment date to later in the 
month. And if Topaz was just changing the date of Mr Ds direct debit without telling him, 
then that might not be fair.
So I asked Topaz about this, and it said that Mr D requested this change by secure 
message on 29 October 2020. It showed us this message. And it sent us a copy of the 
letter it had written to Mr D, dated 10 November, to confirm that it would make this 
change. That letter said that Mr Ds direct debit for December would be taken on the 28th, and it confirmed that payments after this date would continue to be taken on the 
28th of each month.
So I dont think that Topaz did unilaterally changed Mr Ds monthly direct debit. And 
because Mr D had only recently changed his direct debit to the end of the month, I think 
he ought reasonably to have been expecting this payment to be taken on 28 January 
2021.
I know that Mr D will be disappointed, but having considered carefully all that he has told 
us, I dont think that his complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Topaz replied, to say it agreed with my provisional decision. Mr D didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has offered any additional evidence or argument in this case, and I havent 
changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman