DRN-3643684
The complaint
Mrs D complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC administered her bank account.
What happened
Mrs D held a bank a count with Lloyds. In June 2021 Lloyds mistakenly noted that Mrs D had 
passed away. She went into branch and the issue was rectified. But in September 2021, the 
issue reoccurred, and Lloyds again mistakenly noted that Mrs D had passed away.
Mrs D complained to Lloyds about this. She said to be declared dead by her bank was 
deeply distressing. She said she only found out from third party companies who wrote to her 
after direct debits had cancelled  due to Lloyds declaring her as deceased.
Lloyds upheld Mrs Ds complaint and awarded a total of £500 compensation.
But Mrs D didnt think this was enough so brought her complaint here. One of our 
investigators thought £520 was a fairer amount to offer. Lloyds agreed.
Mrs D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said the shock of Lloyds 
noting her as deceased caused her to fall over in shock. And shes said that fall caused her 
injuries. She had to pay to have these injuries treated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont require Lloyds to do any more here. I know this will be hugely 
disappointing for Mrs D. Ill explain my reasoning.
Theres no dispute over whether Lloyds made an error here. It did, twice. I 
understand Mrs D wants to know how this could have happened, and thats 
completely understandable. But often errors arent able to be explained which I 
appreciate is frustrating. Whats important is that Lloyds put things right and makes 
sure the error doesnt reoccur.
Being informed your bank has you recorded as deceased would be distressing for 
anyone. For that to happen twice would only compound this distress.
It would also be inconvenient. Luckily Mrs D said she had access to another bank so 
was able to move the direct debts once she knew about the error. But thats still an 
inconvenience to her.
Mrs D said she was informed her emergency services would be cut off due to her 
direct debit being cancelled. Shes said this shock caused her to fall and sustain 
injuries. As set out above, finding out your bank has you recorded as deceased when 
you are very much not will be distressing. That distress is compounded here by the 
fact it happened twice. But I cant fairly say Lloyds is responsible for Mrs D falling and 
sustaining an injury, or the costs relating to this. While its entirely foreseeable that 
Lloyds error would cause considerable distress, I dont think its foreseeable that that 
distress would cause a fall, and further, that said fall would result in the injuries Mrs D 
sustained.
£520 is not an insignificant amount of money, and in this case, I think its a fair offer 
of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused given the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to take further action in 
relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman