DRN-1901700
The complaint
Miss S complains that her insurers Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC (RSA) has 
unfairly declined her claim under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2019, Miss S contacted RSA to report damage to items in her home. She 
couldnt say when the damage occurred but told RSA that her neighbours had had leaks and 
water got into her home, which damaged her belongings. RSA obtained some information 
from Miss S and sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage.  
There were a series of conversations between RSA and Miss S. During those conversations, 
RSA asked Miss S to obtain further information regarding like for like replacements of the 
items damaged. That information took a long time to get. RSA made it clear that the dates of 
the incidents were important, to see if it was responsible for providing cover to Miss S, when 
the incidents happened. 
Miss S did obtain the additional information requested and eventually provided estimated 
dates of when the incidents happened. RSA declined Miss S claim as it identified that the 
damage happened before it was responsible for underwriting the policy.  
Miss S complained to RSA as she was sure that it had told her that it would cover her claim. 
RSA did not change its mind and continued to decline the claim but because there had been 
a delay in it coming to this decision, it offered compensation of £25 for the trouble and upset 
it caused. Miss S didnt accept the offer and referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator initially upheld Miss S complaint. She said that RSA should have given her 
an answer or rejected her claim much earlier. RSA didnt accept our investigators 
recommendation and asked her to consider further evidence. 
Following her further review, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.  She said that RSA 
didnt confirm cover. She also said that RSA made it clear to Miss S that there could be an 
issue with who had been the underwriter at the time of the incidents. She concluded that 
RSA were not responsible for cover at the time of the incidents and that the £25 
compensation offered, was fair.
Miss S didnt accept our investigators decision as our investigator had changed her mind 
and she said that she had been assured by RSA that it would accept her claim on several 
occasions. 
Miss S asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking RSA to do anything more to resolve the complaint. 
I realise this will be a disappointment to Miss S, but I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
It should be noted that we offer an informal dispute resolution service. We try to resolve 
complaints by consumers about businesses and I am able to look at whether RSA treated 
Miss S fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. It seems that there are two distinct areas 
of complaint. First, whether RSA informed Miss S that it would cover her claim and second, 
the delay. 
I have listened to the calls from Miss S first report of the claim to RSA until RSA told her of 
its decision. From the calls, RSA hasnt mentioned that it would cover the claim. What it had 
asked for was for Miss S to gather further information, so that it could register the claim.  
It also explained the possibility of the claim being split into three separate claims given the 
damage caused. I appreciate that Miss S may have felt that because the information she 
was asked to get, gave her the impression that the claim had been accepted. But having 
reviewed the calls at no time did RSA tell her that the claim would be accepted.
I note that RSA also on more than one occasion told Miss S that it would have to check 
whether she was insured with them at the time that the leaks happened. I can see that this 
could only be done once Miss S had given them the dates of the incidents. So, on balance, I 
dont think RSA provided assurances to Miss S that her claim would be covered. 
Miss S has said that RSA wrote to her and implied that her claim would be covered. I have 
read the emails and I cant agree that this was the case here. When RSA wrote: In order to 
make any settlement.. I think this was asking for information rather than confirmation that it 
had accepted the claim. 
I have next looked at whether RSA were fair in the amount of compensation it offered, for the 
delay. I can see that it had admitted that there was delay and that the delay in part, related to 
finding out whether it was responsible for covering the claim. Having carefully reviewed the 
evidence I can see that it couldve found this out a lot sooner, but at the time, it was relying 
on Miss S and others for information which added to the delay. 
So, although I accept the that Miss S felt inconvenienced at having to gather the further 
information before she was told that the claim wouldnt be covered, I dont think that RSA 
were responsible for all the delay. So, I cant say that the level of compensation offered was 
unreasonable and I recommend she accept it. 
Finally, dealing with Miss S request for the valuations. RSA has said that the valuations it 
has are data sensitive and as such cant be disclosed. Unfortunately, I am unable to breach 
sensitive data by sharing this with Miss S. 
In the circumstances, I dont think that RSA has been unfair in declining Miss S claim on the 
basis that it wasnt responsible for covering her at the time the incidents took place. So, I 
cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint for the reasons given.
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC has already made an offer to pay £25 for the delay in 
dealing with the claim and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances andI direct Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC to pay the £25 its offered, if its not already 
done so.  
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman