DRN-4522780
The complaint
T complains that TIDE PLATFORM LTD (TIDE) wont refund transactions totalling 
£51,864.50 which it says it didnt authorise. 
Mr H  sole director of T  brings the complaint on Ts behalf.
What happened
In brief summary, T has explained that between October 2020 and February 2022 
transactions totalling £51,864.50 were debited from its account which it didnt authorise. The 
payments (of which there were 38) have been set out in detail elsewhere and were 
essentially to four entities: Trading212, eToro, UNS, and PayPal. 
T complained to TIDE but they were unable to reach agreement, so he referred his 
complaint about TIDE to us. As our Investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the 
case has been passed to me for a decision.
I sent T and TIDE my provisional decision last month explaining why I was intending to 
uphold this complaint in part and that Id consider any more comments and evidence I got 
from the parties by 15 December 2023 before finalising my decision. Now that both parties 
have had fair chance to respond, Im ready to explain my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as in my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons. Ive explained why again below. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Generally speaking, TIDE is required to refund any unauthorised payments made from Ts 
account, and T should only be responsible for transactions made on its account that it has 
authorised itself. Those rules are set out in The Payment Services Regulations 2017. T has 
said it didnt carry out the transactions in dispute. So, I have to decide whether or not I think 
T did authorise the transactions.
The disputed payments to Trading212 number 27. All were made by card and between 
October 2020 and December 2021. And they total over £45,000. TIDE has provided 
technical evidence from which Im satisfied these payments were authenticated. In order to 
decide they were authorised, however, I also need to be persuaded that T most likely 
consented to them. In this regard, I understand Mr H has said neither his card (for Ts 
account) nor his phone have been missing. And Im satisfied from TIDEs technical evidence 
that some of these transactions to Trading212 were authenticated not just with the card 
details but also using 3DS. What this means is Im satisfied, for at least some of these 
transactions, that in order for them to be authenticated, access to Mr Hs phone would have 
been needed.  
The disputed payments to eToro number six. Three were made by card between 
30 December 2021 and 6 January 2022. The remaining three were made by bank transfer 
on 21 February 2022. And together, all six payments total over £5,000. TIDE has provided 
technical evidence from which Im satisfied these payments were authenticated. Again, in 
order to decide they were authorised, however, I also need to be persuaded that T most 
likely consented to them. And again, I understand Mr H has said neither his card (for Ts 
account) nor his phone have been missing. And Im satisfied from TIDEs technical evidence 
that all three of the card payments to eToro were authenticated not just with the card details 
but also using 3DS. What this means is Im satisfied, with regards to all three card payments 
to eToro, that in order for them to be authenticated, access to Mr Hs phone would have 
been needed. Furthermore, with regards to the three bank transfers to eToro, TIDE has 
explained that these can only be made via its phone app or a web version of the app; and if 
the payment is made via the web, approval will be sent to the members device in order to 
proceed with the transfer; and if the transactions were initiated directly from the app, T would 
have needed to authorise them by entering its security code or by scanning its biometrics (if 
above £500, which two of the three payments were). Ive no reason to doubt this, so again, 
in order to make these bank transfers, access to Mr Hs phone would have been required.
Did T most likely authorise the payments to Trading212 and eToro?
Ive thought about this carefully. And Ive taken on board what Mr H has said about him 
suffering ill health and him being in and out of hospital. Weve asked him for more 
information and evidence about this to better understand things. But in the absence of 
further persuasive information provided by Mr H, Im not persuaded this would explain 
things. It seems Mr H has been very clear Ts card and phone have always been in his 
possession. I also note that the disputed transactions are spread over a period 16 months 
(from October 2020 to February 2022) which isnt really what Id expect to see if a third-party 
fraudster made the transactions. I also note Ive seen information that suggests the eToro 
account into which the bank transfers were made was held in the name of Mr H. It seems 
unlikely a third-party fraudster would have moved money from Ts account to Mr Hs eToro 
account. So, whilst I understand Mr H will be disappointed, all of this together  including 
what Ive said above about access to both Ts card and Mr Hs phone being needed  
persuades me here that its most likely that T consented to the transactions to Trading212 
and eToro and so TIDE doesnt need to refund them.
PayPal and UNS
Our Investigator explained that they werent persuaded T consented to the transactions 
made to PayPal and UNS, so they recommended that TIDE refund them. I note that TIDE 
hasnt in response disputed this. And I dont think the Investigators recommendation on 
these transactions is unreasonable. So Im satisfied TIDE should refund T these 
transactions, which total £835.80, and pay T interest on this amount calculated at 8% simple 
per year from the date each payment was debited from Ts account to the date of settlement. 
I understand T has pointed to these transactions and said if these transactions were 
unauthorised, why arent the Trading212 and eToro transactions being regarded as 
unauthorised too. But it doesnt automatically follow, if the payments to PayPal and UNS were unauthorised, that the Trading212 and eToro ones were too. And Ive explained above 
why Im not persuaded I could reasonably conclude in this case, on the information 
presented, that its most likely T didnt authorise the payments to Trading212 and eToro. I 
havent seen a reasonable and persuasive explanation as to how the payments to 
Trading212 and eToro could most likely have been made without Ts knowledge.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint in part and I direct TIDE PLATFORM LTD 
to pay T:
£835.80; plus
interest on this amount calculated at 8% simple per year from the date each payment 
was debited from Ts account to the date of settlement (if TIDE deducts tax from this 
interest, it should provide T with the appropriate tax deduction certificate).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman