DRN-3738295
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited trading 
as LV (LV) dealt with a claim he made under his car insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr S made a claim to LV following an incident. He complained that LVs 
approved repairer (AR) failed to collect his car to inspect the damage when promised and 
caused delays in dealing with his claim. He said he had to chase LV often and he was 
unhappy with the total loss settlement for his car. Mr S provided examples of similar cars to 
his as requested by LV, but was given conflicting information when he did.
In June 2022 LV upheld Mr Ss complaint in part. It agreed it had provided a poor service at 
times. For this it paid Mr S £200 compensation and apologised. 
Mr S remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He said the compensation 
amount wasnt enough to reflect the hours he spent dealing with LV about his claim and the 
inconvenience waiting for two days for his car to be collected. Mr S says he missed an 
important event with his daughter as a result of the ARs failure to collect his car when 
planned. 
Mr S wants £750 compensation. 
Our Investigator found that some of the delays were outside of LVs control and once made 
aware, did what it could to provide alternative solutions. She thought that the compensation 
LV paid of £200 in response to Mr Ss complaint was reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree. He feels we havent appreciated the impact LVs poor service had on him 
and so he wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its clear that LV caused some delays and provided a poor service at times to Mr S. In 
summary the AR failed to collect Mr Ss car when first arranged and this meant 
arrangements had to be made for another day. Mr S says he had to make a number of calls 
to find out when the AR was to arrive.
LV asked Mr S to provide examples of cars for sale that were similar to his, which he did. But 
he explained that due to availability in the market, it was difficult to find closely matched cars 
with similar mileage, condition and specification. I can understand this and I can appreciate 
how frustrating it must have been for Mr S to have to chase LV when he provided the 
information and received conflicting information about what LV could consider. This led Mr S 
to carry out more research and provide further examples which werent actually necessary. 
Ultimately the examples didnt change the valuation LV reached to settle Mr Ss total loss 
claim. 
The market value LVs engineer gave for Mr Ss car is higher than the average of the 
available main motor trade guides for a car of the same make, model, condition and mileage 
as Mr Ss. And so - in line with our approach - and LVs policy - I think LVs total loss 
settlement was reached in a reasonable way. So Im not persuaded that the valuation it gave 
needs to be increased. 
I understand Mr S is upset that he had to miss an event with his daughter as a result of the 
ARs failure to collect his car when agreed. When having to deal with a claim, I think its 
reasonable to expect a degree of disruption and inconvenience. Fortunately it isnt 
something that happens every day. But I think its inevitable that some of a policyholders 
time needs to be spent making arrangements and providing information. 
However, I think LV provided a poor service to Mr S which meant the inconvenience to him 
was over and above what would be considered reasonable. It could have dealt with aspects 
of his claim more efficiently and sooner than it did. This would have reduced the amount of 
contact Mr S had to make with LV. However, I think the compensation it paid of £200 is 
reasonable and in line with awards we give for similar circumstances. So Im not asking LV 
to pay any more. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S. But this means Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman