DRN-3973373
The complaint
This complaint is brought by Mr M in his capacity as a director of a company I will call DE. 
The companys complaint is that delay by HSBC UK Bank Plc in processing a mortgage 
application caused financial loss to DE, which Mr M wants HSBC to reimburse.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
I also note that HSBC has acknowledged there were delays, and has offered compensation. 
I therefore dont need to analyse the events in depth, but instead will consider if there were 
any other delays or errors attributable to any acts or omissions on the part of HSBC for 
which additional compensation is warranted.
Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr M or DE being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of 
what happened quite brief.
DE was moving to new business premises and required a commercial mortgage of £143,500 
from HSBC. It was anticipated by both Mr M and HSBC that the mortgage would be 
completed and the funds drawn down on 22 July 2022. As part of the application process, 
HSBC arranged for a valuation report to be carried out. The valuation report identified a 
potential risk in relation to asbestos. 
Regrettably, while Mr Ms relationship manager (RM) was on holiday, matters werent 
progressed as they should have been, leading to a two-week delay. Once the RM returned 
and the documents were reviewed, the asbestos issue was noted. As a result, HSBC 
needed to see an Asbestos Certificate. This could have been requested two weeks earlier.
It wasnt until 2 September 2022 that the mortgage was drawn down, approximately six 
weeks after the original expected completion date of 22 July 2022.
On behalf of DE, Mr M complained. He said that the delay had caused financial loss to DE. 
Mr M said that the company had had to pay storage costs for several months, because the 
company hadnt been able to move into the new premises until November 2022. 
Mr M wanted HSBC to compensate DE for this and to pay him compensation for his time, 
which he calculated at £900 for three days dealing with HSBC over and above normal 
allowances, as well as having to undertake the management of DE at two premises. Mr M 
also said that DE was homeless and wanted HSBC to pay the company £1,000 for stress 
caused as a result of this, and to reimburse the £250 cost of an asbestos survey which Mr M 
didnt think was necessary. In total the compensation DE was claiming was £4,427.28.
HSBC acknowledged there had been a small delay, and offered compensation of £1,200, 
broken down as £500 for the inconvenience to which the company had been put and £700 to 
cover any financial loss caused by this delay. Dissatisfied with this offer, Mr M raised DEs 
complaint with our service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think HSBC needed to do anything 
more. He thought, given what the surveyor had said about asbestos, that it was reasonable 
for HSBC to want further information about this.
As far as compensation was concerned, the investigator wasnt persuaded that all the delays 
were attributable to HSBC. He noted that the delay in moving to the new premises was 
because DE had been too busy to move in September 2022 and October 2022, and in 
November 2022 Mr M had been away. Given this, the investigator didnt think HSBC was 
liable to pay any additional compensation.
The investigator also explained that a limited company couldnt claim compensation for 
distress or inconvenience. He also wasnt persuaded that Mr M should be paid a daily rate 
for his time, as Mr M was claiming. Overall, the investigator thought that the compensation 
offered by HSBC was adequate.
Mr M, on behalf of DE, disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
Hes made some further points, which I summarise below:
he thinks the asbestos report wasnt necessary;
it was only two weeks after the original completion date had passed that HSBC first 
requested the asbestos surveyor;
its common knowledge that surveyors reports cannot and do not rule in/rule out all 
sorts of things. They are vague, stuffed with exclusions and notes, and often inaccurate. 
HSBC hiding behind this kind of get out is not acceptable when evidence had been 
presented to them;
once the asbestos issue was resolved, there were then several more weeks of delay by 
HSBC until 2 September 2022 when the mortgage completed;
it is nonsense that a company cannot feel distress, and unacceptable for HSBC to hide 
behind this excuse  HSBC has an obligation to put this right;
as an employee/owner of DE, he had to spend a lot of time dealing with HSBC and so is 
entitled to be compensated for this at the daily rate of £300.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M believes there was no issue with asbestos and so it wasnt necessary for 
HSBC to be provided with any further reports on this. However, HSBC was entitled to rely on 
the opinion of its own independent surveyors when it was considering this commercial 
mortgage application. The valuation report was for HSBCs own purposes, and it was 
entirely reasonable, in my opinion, for HSBC to take seriously the concerns of its own 
professional advisers in relation to an issue that could have affected the banks security. 
HSBC is entitled to decide the level of risk to which it is prepared to be exposed in any 
commercial transaction, and that includes any issues that might affect the building. I 
acknowledge Mr M thinks it wasnt necessary for HSBC to ensure the building was free of 
asbestos, but Im satisfied this was a legitimate concern that HSBC was entitled to raise, and 
have answers to.Ive looked at the timeline of events, and I can see that there was a delay by HSBC after it 
received the valuation report on 11 June 2022 before anyone picked up the issue with the 
asbestos. That didnt happen until 21 June 2022. HSBC has accepted that it dropped the 
ball here. However, Im not persuaded that, even if the asbestos issue had been dealt with 
immediately, that completion would have taken place by 22 July 2022 in any event  but for 
reasons that were not the fault of HSBC.
I note that on 27 June 2022 and 8 July 2022 HSBC requested the signed mortgage deed 
and Board Resolution. HSBC had to chase receipt of these on 25 July 2022. The asbestos 
survey was received on 12 August 2022, but HSBC had to chase again the signed mortgage 
deed and Board Resolution on 18 August 2022. These were logged on HSBCs system on 
26 August 2022.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that the reason the mortgage didnt complete on 
22 July 2022 is as a result of delays that can be wholly attributable to HSBC. The timeline 
shows that documents the bank required to put the security in place were not returned until 
after the issue with the asbestos had been resolved. Consequently, whilst I accept there 
were delays by HSBC, Im not persuaded that the bank is wholly responsible for the 
mortgage not completing by 22 July 2022.
That brings me to the question of compensation. At this point, it may help if I explain that as 
DE is the party complaining, I cant make an award for any distress caused to its director. 
That doesnt mean that I dont believe Mr M was distressed; its simply that the complainant 
is a limited company and as such it cant suffer distress. What I can do is make awards for 
financial losses or for inconvenience.
Ive looked at the financial losses Mr M has claimed. DE is claiming rent of £569.32 per 
month on storage units for August-November 2022 inclusive. However, after the mortgage 
completed on 2 September 2022, DE didnt move into its new premises straight away. Mr M 
has explained that the move didnt happen for two reasons  he was too busy in September 
and October, and he was away in November. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that 
the delay in moving was as a result of any error on the part of HSBC. 
Im also unable to compensate DE based on Mr Ms claim for a daily rate of £300 for the time 
he spent dealing with HSBC. Mr Ms time away from day-to-day business matters will have 
caused DE inconvenience, for which I can award compensation. But Im not persuaded, over 
and above the compensation already offered by HSBC, that DE suffered a financial loss 
equal to the daily rate Mr M is claiming. DE cant simply charge HSBC Mr Ms daily rate for 
the usual service it provides to its customers, as DE has no contract to provide services to 
HSBC. 
I am satisfied that DE was inconvenienced by the delay caused by the bank in identifying the 
need for an asbestos report, and that HSBC must pay appropriate compensation for this 
delay.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that the two-week delay by HSBC in in June 2022 relation to the bank failing to 
identify the asbestos issue in the valuation report resulted in inconvenience to DE. Im 
satisfied that £500 compensation for this is fair, and proportionate to the error made by the 
bank. 
I think £700 compensation for financial loss is also fair and reasonable, given my findings 
that the delays in completing the mortgage after 22 July 2022 were not as a result of any error, act or omission on the part of HSBC, and that the bank wasnt responsible for DEs 
decision not to move into its new premises until the end of November 2022.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, HSBC 
Bank UK Plc must pay DE compensation of £1,200. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M on behalf of 
DE to accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman