DRN-3155542
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a curtailment claim
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 3 February 2020, Mr and Mrs W booked a package holiday abroad to a country Ill call E.
They took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker on the same day. Mr and
Mrs W were due to travel between 13 and 27 March 2020 and cover under the policy began
on 4 February 2020.
Mr and Mrs W flew abroad as planned on 13 March 2020. But they said that on 16 March
2020, their hotel was told to close as a result of Covid-19. They told us that the hotel
manager had to book them a new return flight, as their package provider didnt respond to
their requests for help. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth Office &
Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised
UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad. Mr and Mrs W flew back to the UK on 22
March 2020. They made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs associated with
cutting short their trip. On 23 March 2020, the UK government advised all UK nationals
abroad to return to the UK.
Great Lakes turned Mr and Mrs Ws claim down. It said the curtailment section of the policy
didnt cover claims which happened because of changes to FCDO advice, unless a
policyholder had taken out and paid for an optional Travel Disruption Extension. Mr and Mrs
W hadnt chosen to take up this option. Great Lakes also referred to a policy term which
excluded curtailment claims arising from the prohibitive regulations of any government. It
considered this term applied to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with Great Lakes decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged
that the policy didnt cover Mr and Mrs Ws situation. But she noted that the policy
specifically excluded claims if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice. So she
concluded that Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have been covered if theyd continued with their trip
and they wouldnt have been covered for curtailing it either. She didnt think this was a fair
and reasonable position for Mr and Mrs W to have been left in. So she recommended that
Great Lakes should settle Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 October 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to turn down Mr and 
Mrs Ws claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr and Mrs Ws policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether
Great Lakes treated them fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mr and Mrs W found themselves in was completely
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, that when the insurance was
purchased in February 2020, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19
couldnt have been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore,
Great Lakes obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs W are limited by the terms,
conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ws policy says that Great Lakes will pay for a policyholders unused curtailment
costs if they have to cut short their trip because of one of a list of specific insured events.
The Cutting Short your Trip section of Mr and Mrs Ws policy says Great Lakes will pay
such costs if a trip is curtailed for one of the following reasons:
an unforeseen illness, injury or death of you, a close relative, travelling companion or
any person with whom you have arranged to stay during the trip.
you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called up for Jury Service or
being summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional, or
advisory capacity).
accidental damage, burglary, flooding or fire affecting your home, occurring during
your trip, when the loss relating to your home is in excess of £1,500 or your presence
is required by the Police in connection with such events.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ws trip wasnt curtailed for any of the above reasons.
This means their claim isnt covered under the Cutting Short your Trip section of their
policy.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Ws insurance policy. But in this
case, I dont think they held the cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they
found themselves in.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mr and Mrs Ws policy wouldnt have provided
cover if theyd continued to travel against FCDO advice. She thought this left Mr and Mrs W
in an unfair position. 
There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer
had clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating
to claims for changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I
might think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy
terms and conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct
Great Lakes to do so here.
I say that because the Cutting Short your Trip section of Mr and Mrs Ws policy includes a
specific list of things Great Lakes doesnt cover. One of these is:
prohibitive regulations by the Government of any country, or delay or amendment of the
booked trip due to Government action.
Its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty one specific reason for Mr and Mrs Ws claim. Ive
carefully considered their claim form and their accompanying letter. Mr and Mrs W suggest
that their hotel was closed on 16 March 2020 and so the manager booked them a new return
flight. At this point, there was no FCDO advice against travel. But it seems to me that if
hotels were beginning to close, Es government had likely given such instructions. Im alsoaware that Es government placed a curfew on restaurants; gyms; cafes etc. on 19 March
2020. It isnt entirely clear when the new return flight was booked, as the booking
confirmation suggests this didnt happen until 21 March 2020. But by this point, I think its
clear Es government had put some prohibitive restrictions in place and the FCDO were now
advising against all but essential travel abroad, even if it hadnt yet advised UK nationals
abroad to return to the UK.
I think then that a combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and
government restrictions both in E and the UK  are all likely to have impacted to some
degree on Mr and Mrs Ws decision to cut short their trip.
So, not only are the reasons for the cutting short of Mr and Mrs Ws holiday not covered as
listed, insured events under their policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above
would apply to the circumstances of their claim anyway.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ws position, as I appreciate theyve been left significantly out
of pocket. But overall, Im not planning to direct Great Lakes to pay their claim.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional evidence they wanted me to consider.
Great Lakes didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr and Mrs W said that the reason theyd had to leave their hotel was that Es government 
were closing all hotels and that therefore, the hotel management insisted they leave. They 
told us that they understood my preliminary decision. Mr and Mrs W have now also made a 
complaint to us about the sale of their policy by their broker, which will be considered 
separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W said they understood my provisional findings and Great Lakes didnt respond. 
So I dont think theres any reason for me to change my provisional decision. 
I do appreciate that Mr and Mrs W had no choice but to cut short their trip, because of 
circumstances which were entirely beyond their control. Theyve indicated to us though that 
Es government was closing all hotels and so they had to leave. So by their own account, 
their decision to curtail their holiday was, at least in part, due to a prohibitive restriction by 
Es government. This means then that as well as their claim not being covered by the policy 
terms, the prohibitive restrictions clause Ive set out above wouldve likely applied to their 
claim.
Overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W and despite my natural sympathy with 
their position, Ive decided it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to turn down their 
claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman