DRN-4166535
The complaint
Mr R complains that ReAssure Limited caused unnecessary delays in the transfer of his 
personal pension to a new provider. This delay caused a reduction in the pension fund value 
and a loss of opportunity to invest.
In this complaint Mr R is represented by his Independent Financial Adviser who Ill refer to as 
[X].   
What happened
Mr R had a personal pension with ReAssure. He was receiving financial advice from [X] who 
advised Mr R to transfer his pension plan to a new provider, [Y]. Mr R completed the 
necessary transfer application forms and these were submitted electronically by [X] to 
ReAssure on 28 September 2021.
But the transfer took longer than Mr R expected, so he complained to ReAssure. On 22 
October 2021 ReAssure apologised for the delay and said it was currently investigating to 
see if Mr R had suffered financially as a result of the delay it had caused. It offered him £200 
compensation.
Mr Rs funds were transferred to [Y] on 10 November 2021, but this was longer than Mr R 
thought reasonable. He submitted a new complaint to ReAssure. He said that hed instructed 
ReAssure to sell down his investments to cash pending the transfer on 28 September 2021. 
This hadnt happened and the funds were not received until 11 November 2021, but had 
remained invested during the initial period, and had lost value due to market movements. 
There was some further communication between Mr R and ReAssure but he was unhappy 
with the way ReAssure had carried out its loss calculation. So on 30 March 2022 [X] 
submitted another complaint to ReAssure on his behalf.
He said that ReAssure had transferred £778,000, but the value on 9 November 2021, just 
prior to the transfer, was £801,527. He wanted to see the daily values during the sell down 
process and for ReAssure to confirm the correct value had there been no delays and if it had 
followed its standard time of 15 days for these types of requests. There was some further 
communication and Mr R told ReAssure that the delayed transfer had also meant [X] had 
been unable to invest the funds at the point they would have, so had missed out on 
investment growth.
On 12 July 2022 ReAssure wrote to Mr R. It said it had contacted [Y] and from the 
information it had received, it had completed a calculation which showed Mr R had not 
incurred a financial loss. 
ReAssure sent its final response letter on 9 August 2022. It said it was satisfied that its loss 
calculations were based on the correct dates and that it had treated Mr R fairly. 
It said it ought to have made the transfer payment on 12 October 2021. Allowing three days 
for the BACS transfer [Y] should have received the funds on 15 October 2021. But from the 
time the funds were actually received, there was a gap of 20 and 21 working days where [X] 
had not reinvested the funds. So it used this same gap to work out that the funds would most 
likely have been invested on 12 and 15 November 2021. And using these dates the 
calculation showed no loss.
Mr R didnt accept this outcome so referred his complaint to our Service. It was considered 
by an Investigator who thought overall ReAssure hadnt treated Mr R fairly. 
Our Investigator thought it was reasonable that ReAssure had transferred £788,431.01 on 
10 November 2021 as this was the value of Mr Rs pension fund as of 28 September 2021 - 
the date the transfer request was received. But he didnt think it was reasonable for 
ReAssure to assume there would be the same delay in re-investment by [X] as had actually 
occurred. He thought this because [X] had shown the actual delay was caused by a specific 
investment decision due to poor market conditions in November 2021. [X] showed that had 
the funds been received when they ought to have been, in October 2021, it would have 
followed the approach it had taken with its other clients with similar portfolios, and invested 
immediately. So our Investigator thought it was likely that [X] would have invested Mr Rs 
funds immediately upon their receipt on 19 October 2021 so there may have been some 
investment loss. Our Investigator provided ReAssure with a copy of [X]s investment 
template, and set out how he thought ReAssure should calculate whether any loss had 
happened. He said this would be in addition to the £200 it had already offered. 
But ReAssure thought that the calculation methodology suggested used a lot of hindsight so 
didnt accept it. Our Investigator explained that it was reasonable to use the example of what 
[X] had actually done, with investors similar to Mr R, to show what it would have most likely 
done had Mr Rs funds been transferred without delay.
No agreement was reached so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator, for broadly the 
same reasons.
Firstly Ill consider the valuation that ReAssure have applied to the transfer of Mr Rs pension 
fund. I can see the pension transfer request was submitted electronically by [X] to ReAssure 
on 28 September 2021 and ReAssure have shown that on that day the transfer value of 
Mr Rs pension fund was £788,431.01. But the transfer wasnt actioned until 10 November 
2021, and in the intervening time there was some increase in the fund value. ReAssure, in 
acknowledging the delays it caused, back dated the value of the fund to the day the transfer 
request was received and transferred this amount. And Im satisfied this is fair. The transfer 
was to be made in cash, and it is standard practice to value this on the date that the scheme 
has everything it needs in order to effect the transfer. Had ReAssure processed the transfer 
in line with its agreed service levels, £788,431.01 would have been the amount transferred 
anyway. So Mr R has incurred no financial loss here.
But I do not think ReAssure have treated Mr R fairly when it comes to considering if he has 
incurred any investment loss. Ill explain.
It is not disputed that there was a delay caused by ReAssure in the transfer of the funds to 
the new provider [Y]. The funds were transferred on 10 November 2021, but they ought to 
have been transferred on 15 October 2021. And the funds were held in cash, so not invested, between these dates. 
ReAssure have argued that hindsight should not be used when deciding when [X] were likely 
to have invested the funds. It has said that there was an actual delay in the reinvestment of 
20 and 21 days once the funds had been received by [X], so this gap should also be used in 
deciding when it would be most likely [X] would have reinvested the funds had they been 
transferred in October 2021. 
In this case [X] have shown it had an investment strategy that it was following, and has 
shown it used this strategy in October 2021 with other clients in a similar position to Mr R. So 
it has argued that had the funds been available from 15 October 2021, they would have 
been invested from 19 October 2021 in line with its strategy. [X] has said the 20 and 21 day 
delay in investment in November 2021 was as a direct result of market conditions at that 
time, so should be discounted. 
Whilst being mindful of the need to avoid using hindsight when coming to decisions, I can 
use arguments and evidence submitted to decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened, on the balance of probability, had the transfer delay not occurred, and had the 
funds been transferred to [Y] on 15 October 2021. And having considered everything, I find 
the investment model evidenced by [X] most persuasive. I can see it was followed at the 
time, and it is likely that this model wouldve been used to invest Mr Rs funds. It specifically 
shows [X] made eight changes to the blend of investments between 15 October 2021 and 16 
November 2021, and Im satisfied that it is most likely that Mr Rs pension funds would have 
been invested in this way had they been available. But the funds werent available and were 
held in cash due to ReAssures delays, so Im satisfied it is fair and reasonable that 
ReAssure be held responsible for any lost investment opportunity. 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr R should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if the transfer of his pension plan from ReAssure to [Y] had been conducted within 
a reasonable timeframe. 
I require ReAssure to conduct a loss calculation using the following methodology to establish 
if Mr R has incurred a financial loss. ReAssure must:
calculate the current notional value of Mr Rs pension, currently held with [Y], had the 
£788,431.01 been invested by [X] on 19 October 2021 in line with the investment 
template history attached. This will be the fair value.
establish the current value of Mr Rs pension plan with [Y]. This will be the actual 
value.
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If the 
fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
If a loss is identified, pay this compensation into Mr R's pension plan. If a payment 
into the pension plan is not possible, then it should pay the amount direct to him. 
However, had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so 
Mr R wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that Mr R is likely 
to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would 
equal 20%. However, if Mr R would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, 
the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall 
reduction of 15%.
Add 8% simple interest to any loss identified, from the date of this decision to 
settlement (if not settled within 28 days of ReAssure receiving notification of Mr Rs 
acceptance of this decision.
In addition to the calculation above, pay Mr R £200, if it hasnt already done so, to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience he has been caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. My decision is that ReAssure Limited should settle the complaint in 
the manner directed, and pay the amount calculated as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman