DRN-3749347
The complaint
The estate of Miss S complains about the interest Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard charged Miss S and also complains that the account shouldnt have been 
opened. The complaint is brought by Ms T.
What happened
Ms T says Miss S was charged excessive interest on her account which was thought to be a 
loan account but was a credit card account. She also says the account shouldnt have been 
opened in the first place due to Miss Ss financial position. Ms T would like Barclaycard to 
refund interest on the account and says it should have done more to help Miss S.
Barclaycard says the account was opened in 2002 and says it applied interest in line with 
account terms and conditions when the full account balance was not repaid in full each 
month. It says it had no contact with Miss S about any financial difficulties until June 2022.
The complaint was brought to us, and our investigator upheld it in part. The investigator 
thought Barclaycard ought to have done more to help Miss S from June 2022 when it 
became aware of her financial difficulties. He recommended that interest and charges be 
refunded from that date and an affordable repayment plan be agreed.
Barclaycard has agreed to that recommendation.
Ms T doesnt accept that view and says help should have been given in 2018. The estate 
has confirmed that it no longer seeks a jurisdiction decision about if we can consider the 
complaint about the account opening in 2002.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view as the investigator. I make clear that I 
cant consider the events of 2002 about the account opening but, in any event, can see the 
estate no longer seeks a jurisdiction decision.
Im satisfied that Miss S would have agreed to Barclaycards terms and conditions when the 
account was first opened. This was a credit card account and not a loan account and think it 
would have been explained in 2002 that interest would be charged each month if an account 
balance was not repaid in full each month. So, I dont think Barclaycard made a mistake by 
charging interest in these circumstances when its clear from the account statements Miss S 
didnt repay the full account balance each month. It is not our role to decide if the interest 
rate itself is unfair or too high.
I appreciate that it is said Miss S was in financial difficulties and that Barclaycard ought to 
have known that from 2018. But I disagree and cant see any evidence that Barclaycard was 
told about such difficulties until June 2022. And I would have expected Miss S to have told 
Barclaycard if she was in financial difficulties. I appreciate the estate says Barclaycard didnt 
follow the Persistent Debt (PD) rules but again I have not seen any evidence of that or that 
Barclaycard could have done anything differently from 2018. Im satisfied that having looked 
at the PD rules that Barclaycard would have started the process in around 2018 which 
doesnt mean it ought to have concluded Miss S was in financial difficulties then.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclaycard ought to have done more to help Miss S when it was 
told in June 2022 that she was in financial difficulties. It ought to have treated her positively 
and sympathetically. But I can see that it now accepts that and has fairly offered to refund 
interest and charges from that date.
Putting things right
Barclaycard should refund interest and charges as agreed from June 2022. Barclaycard will 
be aware of the change in the circumstances about this complaint and no doubt will explain 
to the estate the next steps about this debt. It will also appreciate why Miss S couldnt agree 
a repayment plan as it suggested in late 2022.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard to refund interest and charges on Miss Ss account from June 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
S to accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman