DRN-1660640
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Nationwide Building Society delayed in opening a joint account 
for them. 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs M applied online for a joint current account. They each already 
had a Nationwide current account in their sole names. They received a letter from 
Nationwide which said that Mrs M would need to visit a branch with some identification to 
continue with the application, which they did. 
But when they still hadnt heard anything about the joint account a few weeks later, Mr M 
called and was told that Nationwide still needed identification from Mrs M. Mrs M also called 
and was told the same thing. 
Mr M called again to try and resolve the matter, as he felt this was wasting their time. A 
Nationwide representative tried to help and said that they would call Mr M back when they 
had more information, but this didnt happen. Mr M complained. He felt theyd been given 
inaccurate information about why the joint account couldnt be opened and felt he shouldnt 
have had to chase Nationwide about this matter when they had provided the requested 
identification. He said the situation had caused him and Mrs M stress and fatigue and he 
didnt believe the process had been handled adequately. 
Nationwide said that Mrs Ms maiden name had been entered into the wrong field in the 
online application, and this caused its systems not to recognise her as an existing customer 
and create a new profile for her. This meant that identification was needed from Mrs M to 
continue with the application. It suggested that Mr and Mrs M should attempt to apply for the 
account under Mrs Ms online log-in details, as this would ensure the problem with the 
profiles wouldnt happen again. However, it also updated Mrs Ms details so that, if they did 
apply again and enter matching details, the account should be able to be opened. 
Nationwide said that the original application couldnt be continued as it had expired but 
arranged for the associated credit searches to be removed from Mr and Mrs Ms credit files. 
However, Nationwide apologised that Mr and Mrs M hadnt received a call back as they were 
told, and for how long they had spent on calls to Nationwide without resolving the matter. 
Nationwide also acknowledged that it had resent a letter to Mr and Mrs Ms previous address 
when they had told it about this mistake. It credited Mr Ms current account with £125 to 
recognise this. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought that Nationwide had 
responded fairly. She said that Mr and Mrs Ms joint application couldnt be progressed as 
the details werent put correctly on the online application. But she thought that this couldve 
been explained to Mr and Mrs M sooner than it was, and they couldve been told that they 
needed to reapply for the account. The investigator said that Mr and Mrs M had been caused 
stress and frustration through the situation, and she thought the £125 Nationwide had 
already paid was in line with compensation that we would award for that.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the investigators findings. Mr M said they didnt feel theyd been 
adequately compensated. Mr M refused to submit another application for an account that 
shouldve been correctly handled months before. He said the problem had taken too long to 
be addressed, and still wasnt resolved. Mr M felt the investigator had missed the crux of the 
complaint, as the account application shouldve been sorted out when they took Mrs Ms 
identification to the branch. Mr M questioned why it had been for him to chase the account 
opening and said they shouldve been told earlier what the problem was and how it could be 
fixed. He felt theyd lost interest through the delay in opening the account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling about this account application and why he feels 
Nationwide delayed in opening it; particularly as Mrs M was already a Nationwide customer.
However, her account at the time was still in her maiden name. And, because her maiden 
name was entered on the online application as Mr Ms previous name, Nationwides system 
didnt recognise Mrs M as being the same customer, or even as an existing customer. And 
for this reason, Nationwide asked for further identification from her. 
So although I understand Mr and Mrs Ms confusion and frustration about why this was being 
requested, in the circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable as it would have allowed 
the progression of their account application.
Unfortunately, by the time Mr and Mrs M were able to visit a branch and provide Mrs Ms 
identification and change the details on her existing account, their original application had 
expired. I do understand Mr Ms point that there wouldnt have been a problem if the 
application had been made in his name and his wifes maiden name, and that them providing 
her identification to the branch left them in this same position. But Nationwide wasnt then 
able to continue to progress that original application, even though it then had the right 
information for Mrs M, as the time to do this had expired. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs M have said they were told in the branch that by providing 
the requested identification everything was sorted for their account, but it seems that the 
branch staff may not have been aware or may not have had access to the information that 
the online application had already expired.
 
However, I do agree that Nationwide couldve told Mr and Mrs M about this earlier than it did. 
This may have meant that some of the upset and frustration Mr and Mrs M were caused 
couldve been alleviated. 
I can see that Mr M spoke with Nationwide in July 2019, and the adviser said that they would 
call him back, after finding out if anything could be done to progress the application. But this 
call back didnt happen, and so Mr M needed to call Nationwide again. There were also 
times when Nationwides advisers were unable to discuss some of the issues about Mrs Ms 
personal details with Mr M without her consent.
 
Having looked through the notes relating to the calls Mr and Mrs M had with Nationwide 
about the matter, these suggest that there was some difficulty in finding the application from 
Mrs Ms details, however this may have been because of the issues with the record of her 
surname on that application. 
Mr M has also said that he feels they have suffered a financial loss because of missing out 
on a 5% promotional interest rate on the joint account. However, Nationwide has told us that customers who had previously received this promotion wouldnt be eligible to receive it 
again. 
Nationwide suggested that Mr and Mrs M could reapply for the joint account using Mrs Ms 
online banking details to make sure the correct customer information was used for them 
both. But it has since made sure that both Mr and Mrs Ms address details are up-to-date 
and confirmed that Mrs Ms surname was updated on her own account when they visited the 
branch. Nationwide has said that this would mean that a new application should be able to 
be processed for them, without any issues being caused through the names or addresses 
not matching.
Nationwide has also removed the record of the credit search it carried out for the original 
application from both Mr and Mrs Ms credit files, which would mean there should be no 
impact caused by that application not going ahead.
 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Nationwide should be required to proceed on 
the basis of the information Mr and Mrs M provided in their original application, when the 
details needed to be corrected and an up-dated, current credit search would need to be 
carried out. 
Nationwide has apologised for the service Mr and Mrs M received through not receiving a 
promised call back; the time they spent on the phone trying to resolve this matter, and for 
sending an acknowledgement letter to the wrong address twice. It credited Mr Ms account 
with £125 to acknowledge this. Although I acknowledge that this is less than Mr M feels is 
enough, I think this represents a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that Nationwide Building Society has already paid £125 to settle this 
complaint, and I think thats fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman