DRN-2901526
The complaint
Ms H complains about an interest deduction Nationwide Building Society made when closing 
her savings account. Ms H also complains about delays supplying information following a 
Data Subject Access Request (DSAR). 
What happened
Ms H had a Nationwide savings account with a maturity date of 13 February 2020. On 12 
February 2020 Nationwide applied interest to cover the period until 13 February 2020. Ms H 
withdrew her funds from the savings account on 12 February 2020 leaving a zero balance. 
On 13 February 2020 a transfer for £1.01 was received into the account and £1 was later 
transferred back out. That left a balance of 1p. 
Nationwide closed the account down at the end of February 2020. It says that because Ms H 
withdrew her savings on 12 February 2020, it found shed received an overpayment of 
interest totalling 45p. When closing the account Nationwide applied manual adjustments and 
wrote off 44p, after the remaining 1p account balance had been factored in. 
Ms H later raised a DSAR and asked Nationwide to provide a manual calculation of how the 
interest corrections had been applied. Nationwide has explained the DSAR response was 
delayed due to Covid restrictions that had impacted the business. When Nationwide did 
respond, it failed to include the manual interest calculation. 
Another DSAR was raised and Ms H was later given the interest calculation.
Ms H has complained that shes lost out on interest and that Nationwide made mistakes 
when dealing with her DSAR. Nationwide didnt agree Ms H has been overcharged but 
apologised that the information requested under the DSAR was delayed and paid her £100. 
Ms H referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Nationwide had dealt with Ms Hs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Ms H asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms H but Ive looked at the interest calculations Nationwide applied to 
the account when it closed it but didnt find she was overcharged. I agree with the 
investigator that Ms H is better off by 44p because Nationwide waived extra interest it 
applied to her on maturity. Ive looked at all the available calculations and interest 
information but havent found anything that leads me to conclude Ms H has lost out 
financially or that Nationwide has made a mistake. 
Nationwide apologised for the delays Ms H has experienced when dealing with her DSAR 
and that it didnt initially send her the interest calculations. Nationwide upheld Ms Hs 
complaint and paid her £100 to reflect the delay. I understand Ms H is concerned that there 
have been technical breaches of the GDPR rules. But, as Ive noted above, our service is an 
informal dispute resolution service. We arent a court and we dont regulate how businesses 
handle information or respond to DSARs. 
Ive considered whether Nationwide treated Ms H fairly and whether the settlement it paid in 
relation to the issues raised is reasonable. I can see Nationwide has explained the delay in 
dealing with Ms Hs was caused in part due to the effects of the pandemic. I think thats a 
reasonable point. Nationwide accepts if failed to initially include the calculations Ms H 
wanted and apologised. I think the apology and £100 settlement Nationwide has paid is a 
fair way to resolve Ms Hs complaint. So Im not telling Nationwide to take any further action 
or increase the award. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Nationwide Building Society has 
already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman