DRN-3691714
The complaint
Miss G complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) deciding to close her accounts with it.  
She also complains about the customer service she received from HSBC.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In late 2021, HSBC froze Miss Gs accounts with it.  She contacted HSBC about this and 
when she believed the matter was resolved, she later received a letter from HSBC putting 
her notice that it would be closing her accounts.  Miss G tried to dispute this to no avail, and 
so raised a complaint.
HSBC investigated the matter and said that, in line with its terms and conditions, it decided it 
would no longer be able to provide Miss G with banking services or products; and gave her 
two months notice that it would be closing her accounts and related services.  HSBC also 
offered Miss G £75 compensation for customer service-related issues.
Unhappy with this, Miss G referred her complaint to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint.  She thought HSBC had not done 
anything wrong in its decision to close Miss Gs accounts.  She also thought that the £75 
compensation HSBC offered was fair.
As Miss G did not accept the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Closure of accounts
Having considered the terms and conditions of Miss Gs accounts, I can see that they, 
amongst other things, permit HSBC to close such accounts provided it gives the customer 
concerned two months notice.  
By letter dated 25 November 2021, HSBC put Miss G on notice that it would be closing her 
accounts on 28 January 2022.  It seems to me therefore that HSBC correctly followed its 
terms and conditions.  With that in mind, I am unable to say HSBC has done anything wrong 
in this regard.  
I acknowledge Miss G says she has been a long-standing customer of HSBC.  However, this 
is not a valid reason which would negate HSBCs decision  which it is entitled to make  to 
end its relationship with Miss G; a commercial decision which this Service cannot interfere 
with.
Customer service
I have considered the trouble and upset Miss G says she experienced when she discovered 
her accounts would be closed, which then led to the complaint she raised.  I have weighed 
this against the procedure HSBC followed.  Having done so, I am not persuaded HSBC 
acted unreasonably  for example, requesting Miss G attend a branch was a reasonable 
request given the circumstances.
I can see that there is some dispute about when Miss G raised her complaint with HSBC; 
and what it told her about payments on her credit card.  Regarding the former, HSBC 
backdated the complaint date; and regarding the latter, I have seen no evidence to support 
this.  
That said, HSBC has offered Miss G £75 compensation, which I think fairly reflects the 
above.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Miss G £75 compensation, which I 
think is fair in all the circumstances.  Therefore, I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Miss G 
this amount if it has not done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman