DRN-1631652
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say that during their mortgage application, a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy was mis-sold to them by Bank of Scotland plc (trading at 
the time of sale as The Leeds Permanent Building Society and then more recently as 
"Halifax")
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage (account ending in 6792-2) in January 1993 with Halifax. 
They say that during their mortgage application, a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy was mis-sold to them. 
The policy covered Mr and Mrs P equally. The policy was arranged so that they both 
held 50% of the benefit offered. The policy covered against accidents, sickness 
and unemployment. 
In February 2001, Mr and Mrs P applied for a further advance on their mortgage (6792-2) 
and amended their MPPI policy. From this point onwards the policy covered Mr P only.
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this complaint and told Mr and Mrs P 
its unlikely to be upheld. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with this and asked for the complaint to 
be passed for an ombudsmans decision. They say the policy was unsuitable for them due to 
their sickness benefits from their employer and savings at the time the policy was originally 
sold to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
I've looked first of all into whether Mr and Mrs P were given a choice to have MPPI or not. 
Theres very little evidence for me to look at and theres as much to say Mr and Mrs P 
agreed to the policy (and knew they had a choice) as there is to say otherwise. So Ive used 
my knowledge of MPPI to help me think about what is more likely to have happened here. 
And when i do this, I dont think Ive got much evidence to say the policy was mis-sold.
I say this because Halifax sent us their original mortgage application form and i've also 
been able to see some paperwork from after the sale sent to Mr and Mrs P such as a policy 
schedule. The schedule shows that the benefit has been split between Mr and Mrs P and the 
costs are clearly given, demonstrating that a conversation would have been had round the 
policy and who it should cover. So although the evidence in this complaint is very limited, on balance I think Mr and Mrs 
P would have probably known, back in 1993, that there was a choice to have the MPPI 
policy, and they chose it. I just haven't seen enough to conclude otherwise.
Next, I looked at suitability as Halifax has said it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs P. 
In doing so its duty was to ensure it was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances. I think 
it was.
This is because both Mr and Mrs P appear to have been eligible for the cover and 
not caught by any of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. The price 
seems to me to be comparable with similar policies from around that time period and I dont 
think the cost would have been unaffordable. Mr and Mrs P say they had excellent sick pay 
with both receiving 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay along with savings but the policy 
would have paid out alongside any provisions they would have had and it looks more likely 
for longer in certain circumstances. So I don't think there is anything within their 
circumstance that I can see that would have made the policy unsuitable for them.
Mr and Mrs P's mortgage was also a long-term financial commitment and secured 
against their home. So not being able to keep up the repayments during any times of 
unforeseen difficulties could have had serious consequences for their family. The MPPI on 
the other hand, if successfully claimed on, was payable for up to 12 consecutive months and 
wouldve been in addition to any other means they already had in place.
So I dont think Halifax recommending the policy was unreasonable and I think it 
was suitable for them.
After such a long period, I cant confirm whether Mr and Mrs P were given all the 
information they shouldve been given. But i can see that correspondence between Halifax 
and Mr and Mrs P after the sale mentioned the cost, who was covered and what the benefit 
was. I think its likely this disclosure of information was typical of the other information they 
would have been given during the sale.
This means I don't think the MPPI policy was mis-sold. So Halifax doesn't need to 
refund everything Mr and Mrs P paid for it. But Halifax has offered to give some of the cost of 
the MPPI back. 
This is because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
MPPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs P about that. Because Halifax 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs P, that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Halifax has offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 
In conclusion, I don't think Halifax needs to do any more than what it has offered to do.
Halifax will make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs P now i've issued my final decision.
My final decision
I don't uphold Mr and Mrs P's complaint about the mis-sale of the MPPI policy. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman