DRN-3865900
The complaint
Mr F complains that Close Brothers Limited reapplied incorrect markers to his credit file and 
hasnt offered sufficient compensation. 
What happened
Mr F entered into a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers Limited in October 2019. 
He says that adverse markers have been incorrectly applied to his credit file. He has raised 
previous complaints and received compensation but following this a missed payment marker 
was reapplied to his credit file for February 2022. He also complained that it took too long for 
a missed payment marker to be removed from his credit file for March 2022.
Close Brothers issued a final response letter dated 12 October 2022. It said that Mr F 
contacted it because his credit file was still having issues in regard to the entry for February 
2022 and that it took too long for the March 2022 entry to be corrected. Close Brothers said 
that the credit team confirmed the amendments had been made. It said that at the time of 
the letter Mr Fs agreement was in the process of being closed and so a request was sent to 
delete the record to prevent any further issues. It also offered to pay Mr F £50 as a gesture 
of goodwill.
Mr F didnt think that £50 compensation was sufficient and referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted Mr Fs comments about previous 
issues with his credit file but said these had been considered previously by this service and 
so wouldnt be considered as part of this complaint. In regard to this complaint he noted that 
Close Brothers had taken action to amend Mr Fs credit file and had then deleted the record 
to ensure there were no further issues. He said there was no evidence that this issue had 
caused Mr F a financial loss and thought the compensation of £50 that Close Brothers had 
offered was reasonable.
Mr F didnt agree with our investigators view. He asked that the compensation be raised to 
£450. He said Close Brothers had added missed payment markers to his credit file on 
around seven occasions. In some cases, the missed payment marker had been removed 
due to his complaint and then reapplied several months later. He said it even added a 
missed payment marker after the agreement had ended. Mr F said he asked why this was 
happening but didnt get a response and that although he was told it would take up to 60 
days for the issues to be sorted it took much longer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate why Mr F is so frustrated by the issues he has experienced with missed 
payments being incorrectly applied to his credit file. Mr F referred a previous complaint to 
this service about missed payment markers being applied for January, February and March 
2022. A decision was issued and so I cannot consider this further.
Mr F then raised a further complaint with Close Brothers asking why it took so long for the 
marker applied in March 2022 to be removed from his credit file and saying the February 
2022 marker was still present. I understand how upsetting these issues have been for Mr F.
In its final response letter dated 12 October 2022, Close Brothers said that the request had 
been made to the credit reference agencies for the entries to Mr Fs credit file to be 
amended. It said that the agreement had been closed and so it had now deleted it from 
Mr Fs credit file to prevent any further issues. I find this a reasonable resolution to the new 
issues raised. 
I note Mr Fs comment about the length of time taken for the corrections to be made. But I 
cannot say that the delay in the removal of the marker from March 2022 or the reapplying of 
the February 2022 marker caused Mr F any further financial issues (additional to those 
addressed in his previous complaint) and while I note his comments about the time taken 
trying to resolve the issues, as Close Brothers had asked for the markers to be removed and 
has now removed the agreement from his credit file, and offered £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill, I find that it has done enough to resolve the issues raised in this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman