DRN-3050555
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited rejected a claim under his home 
insurance for damage to his wifes glasses.
Mr S had a home insurance policy with Hastings Direct. Hastings Direct is an insurance 
intermediary; the policy was underwritten by Lloyds. As the complaint is about a rejected 
insurance claim, his complaint is against the insurer (Lloyds).
Lloyds uses a third party to handle its claims and most of Mr Ss correspondence has been 
with this third party. For the avoidance of doubt, any reference to Lloyds includes its agents, 
including its claims handler.
What happened
Mr S had a Hastings Direct home insurance policy, underwritten by Lloyds. In January 2021, 
his wife broke her glasses in a fall away from the home. Mr S made a claim for the broken 
glasses under his home insurance.
Lloyds told Mr S his policy didnt include personal possessions cover and rejected the claim.
Mr S was unhappy with this. He said his policy schedule showed he had both accidental 
damage and personal possessions cover. He wants Lloyds to settle the claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She found that 
Mr Ss policy didnt include personal possessions cover. As such, she was satisfied that the 
damaged glasses werent covered by the policy and Lloyds had acted fairly by rejecting the 
claim.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue here is whether Mr S has personal possessions cover. This is an additional 
cover on top of the standard contents cover under the policy. Broadly, standard contents 
insurance covers damage to items at home; personal possessions cover is an additional, 
optional insurance for loss or damage to items away from the home. As its an extension of 
cover it will attract an additional premium because the risk the insurer is being asked to take 
on will have increased.
In this case, the additional protection is set out on page 42 (Personal possessions) of the 
policy booklet: Loss or damage to personal possessions anywhere in the world [and] 
Accidental loss within your home  not covered under standard contents cover.
Mr S believes hes covered because his policy schedule says, You have personal 
possessions cover. He set out a contradiction he thinks exists in his policy schedule: 
The statement of policy states: You have personal possessions cover. Please note 
the sum insured for personal possessions is included in your total contents sum 
insured, not in addition to it. It then states £0 possessions cover. I can't understand 
how I have personal possessions cover and a nil value attached. 
I see Mr Ss point and I can understand his confusion. Unfortunately, the key point is the line 
showing zero sum insured for personal possessions. This shows that the cover wasnt 
selected. In other words, if personal possessions cover had been selected, thered be a sum 
insured value here.
Lloyds explained this in its response to Mr Ss complaint:
 the document titled "Your statement of insurance" (page 5 of the attached PDF) 
lists various details of your contents cover, the final item listed being cover for 
general personal possessions away from home which is shown as £0. The 
statements you refer to which describe personal possessions cover includes the 
cover for your specified item, the laptop valued at £4,000, therefore you have cover 
for one of your personal possessions away from home, which is specified, but not for 
any other general possessions away from home, hence the £0 sum insured.
This means Mr S has cover for a laptop worth £4,000 away from his home, but no other. 
Unfortunately that means that because his wifes glasses were damaged outside their home, 
this isnt covered by his policy.
Im satisfied that Mr Ss policy doesnt cover him for a loss in the circumstances described 
nor is there any evidence that he requested the optional personal possessions cover be 
added to his policy. I think Lloyds decision to reject his claim was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman