DRN-3930280
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined their claim for storm 
damage, under their home buildings insurance policy.  
References to Aviva include its agents. Ill refer to Mr A in my decision, as the lead 
complainant, for ease of reading. 
What happened
In October 2022 Mr A says that strong winds and heavy rain caused damage to a roof valley. 
This resulted in rainwater entering his house, causing damage to a ceiling. He contacted 
Aviva to make a claim. It then arranged for an inspection of the damage. Mr A says the 
surveyor contacted him after the inspection to confirm the claim had been approved. 
Mr A says he was offered a cash settlement for £1,841.96 less the £300 policy excess. He 
asked that the internal repairs be completed by Avivas agents. But he arranged for the 
external roof repairs himself, with agreement from the surveyor. 
Mr A says he was subsequently contacted by the surveyor around ten days later to tell him 
his claim had now been declined. 
Avivas agent wrote to Mr A explaining the damage to his roof was the result of wear and 
tear. It told him this wasnt covered by his policy. In its response to Mr As complaint Aviva 
says the surveyor had made a mistake and the claim shouldve been declined initially. It 
offered to pay £245 to cover the cost of the roof repairs, as Mr A had already arranged this 
work. It also offered £100 for loss of expectation and confirmed it wouldnt deduct the £100 
policy excess from its offer of £245 for the roof repairs. 
Mr A didnt think this was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. He says there was evidence of storm force winds around the 
time the damage occurred. But he thought the deteriorated condition of the roof was the 
underlying cause of the damage. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Let me explain. 
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether a claim for 
damage relates to a storm. These are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions is no then an insurer can generally,
reasonably decline a claim.
Ive looked at weather data from around the time the damage was reported to have 
occurred. This shows wind speeds of up to 52mph were experienced close to Mr As 
property. Ive read his policy terms to see what it says about storm conditions. The terms 
say:
The wind speed or gust should normally exceed 55mph to be a storm but we take other 
factors into consideration such as where the property is sited. A storm can highlight defects 
rather than cause them and damage due to lack of maintenance, wear and tear or which 
happens gradually is not covered. 
The wind speed recorded at the closest weather station are slightly under the speeds 
defined in Mr As policy terms. However, Aviva doesnt dispute that storm conditions were 
experienced. Only that it doesnt think the damage was consistent with storm damage. I also 
note Mr As comments that his property is located close to the coast. Avivas policy terms 
say where the property is sited is also taken into account. In these circumstances, I think its 
reasonable to consider the answer to question one is yes and move on to the next question. 
Dislodged and slipped tiles are typical of damage that can result from a storm. So, the 
answer to question two is also yes. 
The final point I must be satisfied with is that the storm conditions were the main cause of 
the damage. Ive read the surveyors report to understand what he found. Ive copied 
relevant excerpts from the report below:
External
we found that the damage is not consistent with an insurable peril for storm. The damaged 
items are the valley tiles and mortar. To return the property back to the original pre-loss 
condition repairs will include positioning the tiles back into place and repoint the valley. 
Protections and debris removal would need to be considered. The externals do not meet the 
storm criteria and is a failure of the materials from the mortar, the reason it has failed is due 
to the materials breaking down over time.
And: 
Internal
we found that the damaged items were the ceiling as it has bowed and is saturated from 
the egress [sic] rainwater. In our opinion the damage is not consistent with storm but is due 
to a failure of materials externally.
Ive carefully examined the photos the surveyor included in his report. This shows where a 
number of tiles have moved. There are also signs of mortar in the valley gulleys, where this 
has become detached from the roof structure and the tiles. 
A well-maintained roof in good condition should be able to withstand the impact of storm 
force conditions. I think what the surveyor has shown is that there was a pre-existing issue with the roof. This has been highlighted by the storm conditions. But the storm conditions 
werent the underlying cause. The policy terms exclude wear and tear and issues that occur 
gradually. So, although Im sorry Mr and Mrs A have suffered damage to their roof, I dont 
think Aviva acted unfairly when declining to cover their claim.
Ive thought about whether there is cover provided under any other section of Mr As policy 
with respect to the water ingress internally. The policy booklet refers to accidental damage 
cover. I cant see that this cover is included on Mr As policy schedule. However, the general 
exclusions part of the policy terms apply to all sections. This excludes loss or damage that 
results from wear and tear and/or gradual deterioration. The internal damage happened 
because of the wear and tear issue with the roof. So, I dont think this would be covered 
either. 
Avivas surveyor initially told Mr A his claim would be covered. I note his comments that a 
settlement payment was discussed. It must have come as a shock when he was later told 
the claim had been declined. In these circumstances I think Aviva acted fairly to offer a 
payment to cover the cost of the roof repairs, without the application of the policy excess fee. 
I also think its fair that Aviva compensate Mr and Mrs A for the distress they were caused by 
this error on the part of its agent. In the circumstances I think the payment it offered for £100 
is reasonable. 
In summary, although Im sorry Mr and Mrs As home was damaged, I dont think Aviva 
behaved unreasonably when relying on its policy terms and declining this claim. The 
surveyor acting on its behalf made a mistake when initially accepting the claim. But I think 
Avivas offer to pay for the roof repairs and pay £100 compensation is fair. So, I cant 
reasonably ask it to do any more.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman