DRN-4305906
The complaint
The estate of Mr F is unhappy that AXA PPP healthcare Limited declined a claim on Mr Fs
international healthcare insurance policy.
Although the estate of Mr F is being represented, for ease, Ill refer to all comments made by
the estates representative as being made on the estates behalf.
What happened
Mr F was very sadly diagnosed with an aggressive type of cancer, with very poor prognosis.
The estate of Mr F says medical treatment he received at the time didnt materially improve
his condition. And a year later, he was considered an advanced and terminal patient on a
high dose of chemotherapy with the consequential side effects with no chance of a cure.
The estate of Mr F says that Mr F was then due to receive immunotherapy in the European
country he was receiving treatment in on a compassionate use basis as it had been
approved by that countrys Medicine Agency and was within a phase II/phase III trial. 
However, because the biological production of the vaccine was unsuccessful it didnt go
ahead.
Mr F was instead referred to a different European country to undergo a combination of
treatment including biological therapy, vaccinations and immunotherapy. The estate of Mr F 
says Mr Fs condition started to improve, the tumour stabilised, and his life was prolonged by 
the combination of treatment he received. And that before his death, Mr Fs quality of life 
also improved.
AXA covered the initial biological therapy which it later said it covered in error but wouldnt
seek reimbursement for.
After Mr Fs death, a claim was submitted to AXA to cover the cost of the other treatment.
These further costs were declined on the basis that the other treatment amounted to
experimental treatment. AXA concluded that it hadnt been licensed by the European
Medicines Agency (EMA) to treat the type of cancer Mr F had been diagnosed with. And it
hadnt been established as an effective form of treatment for that cancer under the terms of 
the policy.
Unhappy, the estate of Mr F brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our
investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the estate of Mr Fs complaint.
Because the estate disagreed, this complaint was passed to me to consider everything
afresh and decide.
I issued my provisional decision in June 2023 explaining in more detail why I wasnt 
intending to uphold the estate of Mr Fs complaint. An extract of my provisional decision is 
set out below.
.
At the outset I acknowledge that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the
estate of Mr F has, and in my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point
made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key
issues here. The rules that govern the Financial Ombudsman Service allow me to do this as
its an informal dispute resolution service. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt
because Ive overlooked it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every
individual point to be able to reach an outcome in line with my statutory remit.
The relevant regulatory obligations and policy terms and conditions
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers. It also says they shouldnt unreasonably reject an
insurance claim.
The policy terms and conditions set out at section 8 entitled: your cover for cancer treatment,
that cover is provided for:
drug treatment of cancer (such as chemotherapy drugs, hormone therapies and
biological therapies) where the drug has been licensed for use by the European
Medicines Agency if you are receiving treatment in Europe or the Food and Drug
Administration if you are receiving treatment anywhere else in the world, and is used
within the terms of that licence.
The same section also says:
there are some drug treatments for cancer that are typically given for prolonged
periods of time. Such prolonged treatment normally falls outside benefit. However, in
the case of treatment of cancer we make an exception (subject to the limits detailed
below) for chemotherapy drugs and biological therapies such as(Herceptin)
and(Avastin). These drug treatments will be covered when they are used within the
terms of their licence, and up to the period of the drug licence.
Treatment is defined under the policy terms as:
Surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) that are needed to diagnose,
relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury.
The terms of the policy also set out at section 6 things that AXA doesnt pay for. That
includes:
The use of a drug which has not been established as being effective or which is 
experimental. This means they must be licensed by the European Medicines Agency 
if you are receiving treatment in Europe, or the US Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) if you are receiving treatment anywhere else in the world, and be used within 
the terms of that licence.
Treatment which has not been established as being effective or which is 
experimental. For established treatment, this means procedures and practices that 
have undergone appropriate clinical trial and assessment, sufficiently evidenced in 
published medical journals for specific purposes to be considered proven safe and 
effective therapies.
Has AXA acted fairly and reasonably by declining the claim?I know the estate of Mr F will be very disappointed but for the reasons set out below, Im
intending to find that AXA has fairly declined the claim for medical costs.
The estate of Mr F accepts in response to our investigators view that the vaccine
hasnt received EMA approval. However, it says it isnt a drug in the common sense,
rather the vaccine which formed part of the treatment is individualised for the specific
patient and uses the patients own blood and tissue. So, by its nature, they say its
unlikely to be considered a drug for which EMA approval would ever be offered.
AXA says the vaccine is a drug as its a substance or combination of substances that
is intended to treat, prevent or diagnose a disease, or to restore, correct or modify
physiological functions by exerting a pharmacological, immunological or metabolic
action.
Drug isnt defined by the policy. But one of the examples of drug treatment given at
section 8 of the policy terms (referred to above) includes biological therapies which
the National Cancer Institute says is a type of treatment that uses substances made
from living organisms to treat disease  and says includes cancer treatment
vaccines.
But the policy only covers drug treatment of cancer (such as biological therapies)
where the drug has been licensed for use by the EMA (if receiving treatment in
Europe) which Mr F was. But the vaccine hadnt received EMA approval to treat Mr
Fs type of cancer. So, I dont think it was covered by the policy terms.
In the absence of a definition of drugs, I think it would be fair and reasonable to
conclude that drugs as referred to in section 6 of the policy terms  and referred to
above  also includes biological therapies as its expressly provided as an example
of drug treatment in section 8 of the policy terms. Thats relevant in the context of Mr
Fs claim as it relates to cancer cover. So, I think AXA has fairly concluded that the
vaccine isnt covered under the policy on the basis that it hasnt been established as
being effective or is experimental for the type of cancer Mr F had been diagnosed
with. Thats because, again, although it mightve been licensed by the EMA, it wasnt
being used within the terms of that licence.
Further and in the alternative, I dont think AXA has unfairly concluded that the
treatment for which the costs are being claimed is experimental or hadnt been
established as being effective for the type of cancer Mr F had been diagnosed with.
The exclusion in section 6 says for established treatment, this means procedures
and practices that have undergone appropriate clinical trial and assessment,
sufficiently evidenced in published medical journals for specific purposes to be
considered proven safe and effective therapies.
Ive considered all the medical literature the estate of Mr F has provided in relation to
the costs of the treatment being claimed for under the policy including the report
dated February 2023, attached to the estate of Mr Fs response to our investigators
opinion on the complaint. This report reflects the type of cancer Mr F had is rapidly 
fatal even with maximum conventional treatment options. Therefore, from a medical 
point of view, in this case it is also necessary to consider novel forms of therapy. 
And at the time of receiving the immunotherapy, no therapy option existed that 
corresponded to the medical standard. All conventional options had been fully 
exhausted. The report explains that the treatment Mr F received had been in clinical 
use for many years and details some encouraging results.But importantly I think in this case, the estate of Mr F accepts in its response to the
investigators view that although phase III trials of the treatment Mr F were ongoing
prior to Mr Fs treatment, the results were only published in November 2022. Thats
around three years after Mr Fs death and over a year after AXA issued its final
response letter to the complaint. So, at the time he was undergoing the treatment, I
dont think AXA has unfairly concluded the treatment being claimed for hadnt
undergone appropriate clinical trials and assessment for the type of cancer hed been
diagnosed with.
A leading cancer charity website describes phase III trials as comparing the new
treatment with the standard treatment to see which treatment works better for a
particular type of cancer and usually involves many more patients. So, until those
trials are concluded  which they hadnt been for the combination of treatment Mr F
was receiving at the time he was receiving it  I dont think AXA has unfairly
concluded that this treatment hadnt been established as being effective. So, I dont
think AXA has also unfairly relied on the other exclusion in section 6 to decline the
claim.
The combination of the vaccine and immunotherapy may have been better for Mr F 
compared with more conventional treatment thats been discussed in the medical 
literature and it was supported by his treating medical team at the time. Mr F also
responded well to it. However, I dont think that means AXA has unfairly relied on the
terms of the policy to decline the claim. Clinical trials and experimental treatment can
sometimes lead to encouraging individual results. But I dont think it can fairly be said
that such individual results means that its established as being effective more widely
through advanced clinical trials, the results of which arent clear at the time the
individual is having the treatment.
Ive taken into account the list of insurers which the estate of Mr F says do provide cover for
vaccine treatments and immunotherapy for cancer. Even if thats the case, different insurers
will provide different insurance coverage based on the risks theyre prepared to insure and
how they define certain terms in their insurance policies, including experimental treatment.
Ive considered the estate of Mr Fs claim against the policy terms Mr F had the benefit of at
the time and I think AXA has fairly declined cover for the costs claimed.
Ive also taken into account that AXA covered the costs of a certain biological therapy, and
what the estate of Mr F describes as an anti-angiogenic selective monoclonal antibody drug
(the antibody drug), in the region of £15,000. I understand that the antibody drug formed
part of the overall treatment Mr F had and worked together with the vaccine and
immunotherapy Mr F also had. When first administered in the country Mr F ended up having
treatment, the estate of Mr F says the antibody drug was administered under a 
compassionate use protocol whereby the manufacturer reimburses the cost to the hospital if
it doesnt display an effect in the individual patient. But as it worked well for Mr F, the
manufacturer didnt reimburse the costs and so it was covered by AXA.
AXA says that the antibody drug isnt licensed by the EMA for the treatment of the cancer Mr 
F had been diagnosed with and wasnt being used within the terms of its licence. And that it 
was covered in error. AXA hasnt sought reimbursement of this cost from the estate of Mr F.
I dont think its fair and reasonable for AXA to cover the other costs claimed by the estate of
Mr F because it covered the cost of the antibody drug by mistake  particularly as AXA
hadnt approved the vaccine and immunotherapy. And I dont think this means that it has
discretion about whether to approve and accept claims for treatment/drugs which it would
otherwise consider to be experimental under the policy terms.AXA has said that those who assessed the claim for the antibody drug may have wrongly
concluded that it was being used outside of Europe and so applied the FDA licensing rather
than the EMA marketing authorisation rules. And because the antibody drug is licensed by
the EMA for other indications its possible that these were misread. But whatever the reason,
I dont think Mr F was disadvantaged by this and AXA paid the costs for part of his medical
treatment plan which it says shouldnt have been covered.

I invited both parties to provide any information in response to my provisional decision. AXA 
didnt reply. The estate of Mr F replied disagreeing with my provisional decision. In summary 
it said:
I hadnt addressed all points raised by the estate of Mr F, which isnt fair and 
reasonable given the complex factual matrix surrounding the claim and its value.
My provisional decision doesnt properly take into account that the vaccine had 
initially been approved by the Medicines Agency of the European country Mr F first 
received treatment in and AXA had initially been prepared to cover the costs of the 
vaccine. 
My provisional decision doesnt examine the progression of the treatment Mr F had 
and others like it. There have been developments over recent years. Numerous other 
health insurers do provide cover for similar treatment and AXA is behind the curve in 
relation to insurance for vaccine treatments and immunotherapy for cancer. Cover is 
far below the industry standard and is not whats expected from a comprehensive 
global international health plan. 
My provisional decision is silent on the issue of the estate of Mr F having to fund the 
cost of transferring Mr F by air ambulance when he first became ill. A separate 
complaint about this had been upheld by AXA. But its not clear the basis on which 
AXA upheld that complaint and paid the claim for the cost of air ambulance but didnt 
uphold this claim (treatment costs). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision that this included the further points raised by the 
estate of Mr F, together with attachments, sent to our investigator at the end of March 2023. 
Ive also carefully considered the further submissions dated July 2023 in response to my 
provisional decision. However, the further submissions dont change my mind and I dont 
uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, although Ive considered everything, Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual point to be able to reach an outcome in line with 
my statutory remit. Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues. The rules that govern 
the Financial Ombudsman Service allow me to do this as its an informal dispute resolution 
service. 
I also want to assure the parties that Ive taken into account the full chronology of events 
which led to Mr F eventually receiving treatment the estate says should be covered under 
the policy in a different European country. However, for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I dont think AXA has acted unfairly by relying on the terms of the policy to decline 
the treatment costs claimed for. Ive also taken into account the list of insurers which the estate of Mr F says provide cover 
for vaccine treatments and immunotherapy for cancer. Even if thats the case, as explained 
in my provisional decision, different insurers will provide different insurance coverage based 
on the risks theyre prepared to insure and how they define certain terms in their insurance 
policies, including experimental treatment. Im not satisfied this means AXA has acted 
unfairly in this case. And although there have been great strides in the development of the 
type of treatment Mr F had for cancer over more recent years, I dont think AXA has unfairly 
relied on the terms of the policy when concluding that treatment wasnt covered in this case. 
The estate of Mr F has also referred to an earlier complaint made to AXA about having to 
self-fund the air ambulance for Mr F to initially transfer him to a different European country to 
the one he was in when he became very unwell. The estate said the costs shouldve been 
covered under the policy. I understand AXA did ultimately cover the costs and offered a 
goodwill gesture of £500 for delays. However, in July 2022, our investigator asked the estate 
of Mr F to clarify the extent of the complaint they wanted investigated by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. And the estate confirmed that the complaint they wanted investigated 
related to AXAs final decision dated 15 July 2021. 
Having considered this final response letter, Im satisfied that it related to the complaint 
about not covering treatment costs for cancer as opposed to any issues around the claim for 
the cost of the air ambulance. So, it was right for the investigation and my decision to focus 
on the complaint made about the treatment costs. Although AXA ended up paying the claim 
for the costs of the air ambulance, for the reasons set out above and in my provisional 
decision (an extract of which is set out above and forms part of my final decision), I dont 
think AXA has unfairly declined the claim for the costs of the cancer treatment. So, I dont 
uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr F 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman