The complaint
Miss N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed a payment to an account in 
Cameroon that resulted in the loss of the purchase of land.
What happened
Miss N says she made a payment of £1,000 to an account in Cameroon as part of a number 
of payments she was making to buy land. She says she planned on selling the land and 
would have made a significant profit, and borrowed money to make the last payment. Miss N 
says Barclays told her the money would reach the recipient's account the next day but didn't. 
She says the land purchase fell through as a result, and she had a buyer ready to buy the 
land. Miss N says she has been caused stress and distress by Barclays actions and would 
like it to pay compensation of £10,000.
Barclays says Miss N contacted in on 25 September 2019 and it told her the payment would 
take 48 hours. It says it released the money to the recipient bank on 27 September 2019 but 
it's not responsible for that bank's actions and how long it took to credit the account. 
Barclays accepts it didn't respond to Miss N's complaint when it should have and has offered 
£150 compensation for that part of the complaint.
Miss N had brought her complaint to us. But our investigator thought Barclays had released 
the money when it said it would and wasn't responsible for the recipient's banks actions. The 
investigator thought the recipient's account statement showed the money as being received 
on 30 September 2019 and available some days later. The investigator thought the offer of 
compensation fair and reasonable for the delay in responding to the complaint.
Miss N doesn't accept that view and says she has suffered a £30,000 loss and lost the 
chance to sell her land.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise Miss N will be disappointed 
by my decision.
I'm satisfied that Barclays did send the money to the recipient's account in the time scale it 
said it would. I have looked at Barclays documents and can see that it told Miss N those time 
scales and its records satisfy me that it wasn't responsible for any delay. I can't fairly hold 
Barclays responsible for the actions of the recipient bank and why it took some seven days 
or so to allow the recipient to withdraw the money even though it was received some time 
before. It follows that as I don't think Barclays was responsible for the delay, that I can't fairly 
DRN-1601723order it to repay Miss N for any loss that she says she suffered.
I have looked at Miss N's account terms and conditions which I think she would have agreed 
to when the account was first opened. And I can see that Barclays makes it clear that it 
would not be liable in any event for any loss of profit or business opportunity caused by its 
actions. So even if I thought Barclays had made a mistake, then I couldn't order it pay for 
any loss of profit or business opportunity. I don't think Miss N has been clear about what the 
money was intended for or has provided any evidence about the purchase of the land. I can 
see that the payment was to a family member and I don't think Miss N has explained if she 
owned the land or if she intended to buy the land. I think she has told us the money was to 
buy land but later told us she lost the chance to "sell her land" I don't think Miss N has 
explained why she would have a buyer for the land if she hadn't even bought it. In any event 
I have made clear that whatever the position was, I can't fairly order Barclays to pay 
compensation for what took place.
Overall I'm satisfied Barclays has acted fairly and hasn't made a mistake and isn't liable for 
any loss Miss N says she suffered. I accept Barclays didn't deal with the complaint as it 
should but has offered Miss N what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of £150 
compensation. I appreciate what Miss N says about that offer and so will leave it to her to 
decide if she wishes to accept it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the main part of Miss N's complaint and I find Barclays 
Bank UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of £150 for the way it 
dealt with the complaint. Miss N's acceptance of that offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman