DRN-3650023
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) wont reimburse her the £9,000 
she (or somebody else on her behalf) paid for the hire of a car.
What happened
Mrs D is represented in this case by a third party that I will call Mr D.
In July 2021 Mrs D entered into a hire purchase agreement for a used car costing £21,600.
The car required a repair. Under cover of a final response letter dated 10 March 2022 
Black Horse said, amongst other things, that it would pay for the required repair that had 
been undertaken on the car and for any car hire costs Mrs D had incurred whilst her car had 
been off the road.
Mrs D (or Mr D) provided Black Horse with an invoice dated 24 January 2022 for £9,000 
from a party that I will call E. This invoice, on the face of it at least, was for the hire of a car 
over 45 days at a cost of £200 a day.
Mrs D (or Mr D) provided Black Horse with evidence that £9,000 was paid to E on 
24 January 2022. Despite receiving the above evidence Black Horse decided not to pay 
Mrs D the sum of £9,000 she was seeking.
Unhappy with Black Horses decision not to pay £9,000, Mr D referred matters (on Mrs Ds 
behalf) to our service for investigation. Matters were considered by one of our investigators 
who came to the view (first view) that Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld, and that Black 
Horse should refund the car hire costs paid of £9,000 plus a further £300 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr D (on behalf of Mrs D) accepted the investigators first view but asked if Mrs D should 
also be awarded interest on the sum of £9,000. Black Horse didnt accept the investigators 
first view and provided our service with reasons why. This included the outcome of various 
enquiries it had made that showed the payment made on 24 January 2022 for £9,000 to E 
(from an account in the name of Mr D) was returned on the same day by E (to an account in 
the name of Mrs D).
The investigator reconsidered Mrs Ds complaint in the light of both parties responses to his 
first view and came to the view (second view) that it shouldnt be upheld. In summary he 
said he couldnt see that £9,000 in respect of car hire costs had ever been paid by Mrs D, or 
by somebody else on her behalf.
Mr D responded to say that he accepted that he and Mrs D had been dishonest in submitting 
to Black Horse (and then our service) that Mrs D had been invoiced £9,000 by E and this 
sum had been paid to E. He said he accepted that in reality nothing had been paid to E 
because the sum that was initially paid by him to E was returned the same day by E to 
Mrs D. But Mr D said he and Mrs D felt that their dishonesty was the only option open to 
them because they were required to evidence not just that Mrs D had been invoiced £9,000 
for car hire costs but had paid £9,000 for car hire costs. He also said that notwithstanding E 
had, in essence, been paid nothing Mrs D still owed E the sum of £9,000.
The investigator considered Mr Ds response to his second view but wasnt persuaded to 
change his mind. Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to make it clear that Im only considering in this decision Mrs Ds complaint that 
Black Horse should pay her £9,000 in respect of car hire costs she was invoiced for and 
which she had paid, or which had been paid by somebody else on her behalf. 
I would also add the reasons why Mrs D might have needed a hire car and why she might 
have been put in one arent in dispute, so I see no reason to elaborate on these in this 
decision.
Now like the investigator Im satisfied, based on what both parties have said and submitted, 
that Mrs D hasnt paid, or had paid on her behalf by somebody else, anything for car hire 
costs so there is nothing for black Horse to refund in this respect.
Now I appreciate Mr D says that Mrs D still owes E £9,000. But this isnt what Mrs D has 
complained to our service about. For the avoidance of doubt what Mrs D has complained 
about, and which Ive said above is the only matter Im considering in this decision, is that 
Black Horse should have to refund car hire costs she paid, or which were paid on her behalf 
by somebody else.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman