DRN-4211006
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the way that Lowell Financial Ltd (Lowell) has managed the 
collection of a debt in her name.
What happened
Lowell Portfolio I Limited bought an outstanding debt in Mrs Ks name and appointed Lowell 
to manage collection on its behalf. The debt was originally in the name of a business I will 
refer to as P.
Lowell started to try and collect the debt in late 2021. After Mrs K raised concerns that P had 
lent her money irresponsibly, Lowell referred these concerns to P and placed the account on 
hold.
Mrs K has raised a separate complaint with this service about the actions of P.
Mrs K is unhappy that in January 2023, Lowell contacted her about the debt several times 
within a short period. Mrs K says that she found this very stressful, particularly given her 
precarious employment position.
Mrs K says Lowell knew she had a dispute with P about the alleged debt. Mrs K asks what 
Lowell did to check with P about the debt before it bombarded her with contact.
The investigator didnt think Lowell acted unreasonably when it asked Mrs K to repay the 
debt. The investigator said Lowell had placed the account on hold for almost a year during 
which time P hadnt confirmed the debt wasnt due or that it had lent irresponsibly. The 
investigator said that since December 2021, Lowell hadnt sent Mrs K more than ten 
communications so didnt think Lowells contact was excessive
Mrs K disagrees with the investigation outcome. She points out that her complaint was about 
the frequency of Lowells contact in January 2023. Mrs K says Lowell contacted her about 
the debt five times between 2 January and 12 January 2023. Mrs K says this left her with no 
time to seek advice in between contact. Mrs K says the excessive contact contravened 
Financial Conduct Authority guidance and was intended to be intimidating.
Mrs K says that Lowell continued to contact her without knowing Ps response to her 
complaint and without checking the outcome. Mrs K explains that Lowells communication 
negatively impacted her mental health. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Mrs Ks complaint in my own words but our rules allow me to 
do this.
Mrs K says that between 2 and 12 January 2023, Lowell sent her five forms of 
communication. From looking at the copy emails and letters, it seems that rather than 
demanding immediate payment, Lowell was inviting Mrs K to make contact to discuss her 
circumstances with a view to establishing what, if any repayments she could make. Although 
I can understand that Mrs K found the contact upsetting, Im not persuaded that the volume 
or frequency was excessive or designed to intimidate her. 
I appreciate Mrs K thinks Lowell shouldve checked with P before it started to contact her 
about the debt in 2023 but Im not persuaded that Lowell acted unreasonably. Back in 
December 2021 when Lowell notified P about Mrs Ks dispute, Lowell placed the account on 
hold. By the end of 2022, P hadnt withdrawn the debt and neither P nor Mrs K had told 
Lowell that Mrs Ks irresponsible lending complaint had been successful. As a year had 
passed, I think it was fair for Lowell to assume the debt was still due and that it could restart 
the collection process. 
Once Mrs K contacted Lowell to express her dissatisfaction with the collection process, 
Lowell investigated and contacted P. I think this was a reasonable response to Mrs Ks 
concerns.
Overall, I dont find that Lowell has treated Mrs K unfairly so I dont uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman