DRN-2159513
The complaint
Ms N complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in July 2020 which I summarise below.
Ms N was given 3 loans by Cashfloat between May and September 2016. Loan 1 was due to 
be repaid over 2 months. Loans 2 and 3 were due to be repaid over 3 months.
A summary of Ms N's borrowing is as follows:
Date Taken Date Repaid Amount Instalments Repayments
03/05/2016 24/06/2016 £200.00 2 £129.93
27/06/2016 26/09/2016 £350.00 3 £173.33
28/09/2016 15/01/2019 £350.00 3 £170.77
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld. 
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
Cashfloat needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship.
I said that Cashfloat was required to establish whether Ms N could sustainably repay her 
loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Cashfloat carried out some checks before it gave each loan to Ms N. This included asking 
Ms N for details of her income and expenditure and gathering information from credit 
reference agencies. Cashfloat said it uses the results of its checks to satisfy itself that the 
consumer would be able to sustainably meet the loan repayments. Cashfloat had provided 
us with copies of Ms Ns loan agreements. These agreements show the figures that Ms N 
provided for her income and estimated expenditure. But from what Cashfloat had told us, it 
considered her estimated expense figures to be too low, and therefore it increased some of 
those costs when it assessed the affordability of its lending.
Cashfloat had told us that:
As part of our affordability assessment, we tested the figures provided by Ms N with 
independent data that we hold, which is based on national statistical data. Where we 
considered that Ms Ns expense figures may be too low, we increased them in line with the 
statistical data for a household of this size. Ms N stated that her food bills came to £225 
monthly, which we thought was too low, based on statistical data. So, we have increased 
this to £320. We also increased her transport costs from £75 to £95 per month.
Ms Ns income net monthly income was £1,738. Her monthly outgoings, when taking into 
account the figures that Cashfloat said it applied, totalled £1,590. This left her with £148 per 
month of disposable income - before making her loan repayments to Cashfloat. 
Cashfloat had said it only lends where there is sufficient disposable income for the borrower 
to comfortably afford the loan. But it seemed to me that Cashfloat was aware from its own 
checks that, for loan 1, after meeting her normal expenditure and the Cashfloat loan 
repayments, Ms N would only have had around £19.00 per month of disposable income to 
cover one-off necessities or ad hoc spend. 
Whilst I accepted that the lender did in effect build in a margin, even with this in mind, Ms Ns 
circumstances were such that I thought she was left with too little for her first loan to be 
reasonably described as comfortably affordable. And for loans 2 and 3, Cashfloat was aware 
from its own assessment and checks that Ms Ns regular commitments and her loan 
repayments would actually exceed her monthly income.
In addition, Cashfloat had provided information gathered during the credit check it carried out prior to agreeing loan 3. I thought Cashfloat would have been aware that Ms N had been 
taking loans from other short-term lenders and had at least one other short-term loan open 
when she took the third loan. And that it seemed likely that the repayments for this other loan 
would exceed the amount she had estimated for other creditors and repayments of loans in 
her loan application.
As I explained, Cashfloat was required to establish whether Ms N could sustainably repay 
her loans. Given the information it had gathered about Ms Ns circumstances and what it told 
us about its own checks, I thought that Cashfloat ought reasonably to have realised that Ms 
Ns financial position was such that it was unlikely she could sustainably repay her loans. I 
thought in these particular circumstances, Cashfloat should reasonably have concluded that 
it was not appropriate to lend to Ms N.
So I said I was intending to uphold Ms Ns complaint about all three loans and that Cashfloat 
needed to put things right.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. I havent seen any 
further information from Ms N. The deadline for further comments has now passed.
Cashfloat has responded to my provisional decision. It says that Ms N had included her 
partners income of £2,000 per month in each of her applications and that it would be 
reasonable to expect some of this money to be available to help out with household bills and 
would give more disposable income to help out with any one-off necessities or had hoc 
expenses.
I would like to thank Cashfloat for its further comments which I have taken into account when 
coming to my final decision - along with all the other evidence and arguments presented in 
this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered what Cashfloat has said in response to my provisional decision. 
However, its comments do not alter my view of this matter. Liability for these loans rested 
with Ms N and Cashfloat was required to establish whether she could sustainably repay her 
loans. I dont think Cashfloat could fairly rely on income from Ms Ns partner as the means 
by which its loans could become affordable for Ms N.  As I have explained, I think Cashfloat 
ought reasonably have realised that it was unlikely that Ms N could sustainably repay her 
loans. In these particular circumstances, Cashfloat should reasonably have concluded that it 
was not appropriate to lend to Ms N.
So I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision and I uphold Ms Ns 
complaint. 
Putting things right
Cashfloat should:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Ms N on loans 1, 2 and 3.
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. HM Revenue & Customs requires 
Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must give Ms N a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Remove any adverse information about the loans from Ms Ns credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ns complaint and direct Western Circle Limited trading 
as Cashfloat to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman