DRN-4173117
The complaint
Mr S has complained about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited recorded a claim 
he made under his home insurance policy which he jointly owns with Mrs S. Mr S doesnt 
agree a claim was made. 
All reference to the insurer Lloyds in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
In August 2021 Mr S reported damage to the roof of his home to Lloyds. Lloyds considered 
the claim but declined it as it said the cause of damage wasnt an insured peril covered 
under the policy. It said the damage had been caused by wear and tear. 
Lloyds recorded the claim on a central database which most insurers use to record a 
customers claims and incidents history. 
Mr and Mrs S applied for a policy with a new insurer. The new insurer told Mr S he hadnt 
disclosed a claim from August 2021. Mr S said the new insurer charged him an additional 
premium as a result of the claim. 
Mr S complained to Lloyds. He didnt agree it was fair to record that a claim had been 
considered and declined. Mr S said it was an enquiry only as Lloyds didnt pay his claim. He 
said it was unfair that he should have a fraud marker recorded against him and have to pay 
a higher premium as a result.
Lloyds said that it had correctly recorded the claim and so didnt agree to remove it from the 
central database. It told Mr S it hadnt applied a fraud marker against his name - as no fraud 
had occurred. 
Mr S remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found no evidence that Lloyds had treated 
Mr S unfairly - or that it had applied a fraud marker against his record. 
Mr S didnt agree and so he wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says he couldnt have known his claim would succeed until he contacted Lloyds. He 
doesnt see why he should have to pay an additional premium as his claim was unsuccessful 
and he had to pay to repair the damage himself. He said this is why he didnt report the claim 
to his new insurer - and he says an agent representing Lloyds in the administration of the 
policy told him a fraud marker had been applied to his record. 
There are two separate organisations that an insurer may share information with: the central 
database where claims are recorded - and an organisation that records information about 
fraudulent activity. For ease in my decision, Ill refer to these organisations as C and F 
respectively. As the Investigator explained, Mr Ss policy wording from Lloyds sets out that it 
may share information with third party organisations about Mr and Mrs S.
C is used by insurers to check if a customers claims history is consistent with the 
information given when applying for a policy. Most insurers in the industry have signed up to 
recording all incidents reported to it on the central database. This database can also be used 
as a tool to help prevent fraud. 
I am limited as to what I can comment on as to what Mr Ss new insurer told him as it cannot 
form part of my decision against Lloyds. So I cannot make a finding about what Mr S says 
his new insurer told him when he applied for a policy with them. That doesnt mean I dont 
believe Mr S. But Im unable to comment in this decision as to the actions of the new insurer.  
I can only consider whether Lloyds has acted unreasonably and if it treated Mr S unfairly. 
Ive listened to two key calls between Mr S and Lloyds: in August 2021 when he reported the 
damage to his home and in February 2023 when he raised concerns about how the damage 
he reported had been recorded by Lloyds. 
When Mr S contacted Lloyds about the damage to his home, he agreed to make a claim. At 
the point when a claim is made, an insurer is entitled to record it as such. There are times 
when a claim would be recorded as an incident only. As an example; in the event of a motor 
accident: a customer can report the incident to their insurer as a third party was involved, but 
no party makes a claim and no party requests repairs to be carried out. So there are no 
costs involved in this claim and no claim for losses was made. In these circumstances, it 
would be recorded as an incident only. 
I appreciate that Mr S says he couldnt have known his claim would be declined when he 
contacted Lloyds to report the damage. I agree. But I think Lloyds treated Mr S fairly and as 
it would any other customer in recording a declined claim rather than an incident only. I 
think the agent explained the claims process to Mr S and he was able to make an informed 
decision as to whether to go ahead with the claim. He agreed to do this. Lloyds instructed an 
assessor to visit Mr and Mrs Ss home to determine if the cause of damage was an insured 
peril. The assessor will have incurred a fee for their work and so there will be associated 
claim costs. 
So I think Lloyds is entitled to have recorded the claim from August 2021 as a declined 
claim. And - as Mr S has told us - this seems to have been the case when he applied for a 
policy with another insurer and hadnt disclosed the August 2021 claim to them. The 
recording of the claim seems to have prompted the new insurer to ask Mr S about the 
August 2021 claim. 
When we asked Lloyds to provide a screenshot of the claim entry on C, the screenshot 
doesnt show the claim as being recorded. 
Lloyds has told us it doesnt know why the claim isnt showing on C. It says it didnt instruct 
for it to be removed. 
As C is a third party company, I cannot make any further comments as to the recording of 
the claim. All I can say is that Lloyds hadnt acted unreasonably in recording it - and had 
treated Mr S fairly and as it would any other customer in the same circumstances when it 
did. 
When Mr S called Lloyds in February 2023 he said he had been advised by the administrator 
of the policy that a fraud marker had been applied. Lloyds agent didnt understand why this 
might be the case if no fraud had occurred. 
In its response to Mr Ss complaint, Lloyds confirmed that it hasnt applied a fraud marker. 
So Im satisfied - in the absence of any information which contradicts this - that Lloyds hasnt 
added a fraud marker with company F against Mr Ss name for the August 2021 claim. I understand Mr S will be very disappointed with my decision. But taking everything into 
account, I dont think Lloyds treated him unfairly. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman