DRN-3612395
The complaint
Mr Z is a sole trader. He complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mishandled his application for a 
new account, which left him unable to apply to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr Z wanted to apply to HSBC for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. 
HSBC required customers to hold an account with the bank before it would offer them a 
Bounce Back Loan. Mr Z didnt hold any accounts with the bank, so he applied for a feeder 
account on 21 September 2020.
HSBC contacted Mr Z in October to advise that it was having trouble progressing his 
application due to issues with the proof of ID and address hed provided. 
Mr Z visited a branch of HSBC in early November to provide the requisite documentation. 
This was successfully uploaded, but it was discovered on 10 November that the application 
had been cancelled. 
By this time, HSBC had stopped accepting Bounce Back Loan applications from new 
customers like Mr Z. So it wasnt possible for Mr Z to resubmit his application. In light of this, 
HSBC suggested that Mr Z raise a complaint to see what could be done.
A complaint was duly logged and investigated by HSBC. The bank advised Mr Z on 
12 November that it was unable to continue with the application. It said the application had 
expired as the relevant actions  including the ID and address verification  hadnt been 
completed within the necessary period of time. 
Mr Z asked us to look into things as he said hed been in touch with the bank about providing 
the information it had requested, including advising it of a delay due to needing to self-isolate 
along the way. He still needed a Bounce Back Loan and wanted HSBC to consider his 
application.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She 
understood that an application would only expire if left inactive for more than 30 days, but 
couldnt see that had been the case here. She noted, in particular, that the bank had asked 
Mr Z to resubmit his proof of ID and address on 26 October but that the application had 
expired at some point between then and 10 November. She couldnt see that HSBC had told 
Mr Z of any time limits or deadlines that applied, either. 
To put things right, our investigator recommended that HSBC consider a new application 
from Mr Z  and if it was successful, consider a Bounce Back Loan application. She also 
thought the bank should pay Mr Z compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by how it had handled things.
Mr Z accepted our investigators view but HSBC didnt. After initially agreeing and paying the 
£200 compensation, it said it had found an email sent to Mr Z on 23 October reminding him 
of the outstanding actions and advising him that the application would be cancelled if there 
was no activity within five days. The bank said that it wouldnt be willing to consider a 
Bounce Back Loan application from Mr Z as a result.
HSBCs response didnt change our investigators view, as she said the apparent level of 
activity on the application and the banks email of 26 October had suggested the application 
was still live. So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Zs complaint earlier this month, explaining why I 
thought the £200 compensation that HSBC had already paid was a fair resolution to the 
matter. I said:
Mr Z submitted his account application on 21 September 2020. Under HSBCs 
standard process, such applications would expire after more than 30 days without 
activity. That means Mr Z needed to take the requisite steps to progress his application 
before 22 October.
HSBCs records indicate that it first contacted Mr Z about the outstanding ID and 
address documentation on 14 October. It then emailed him on 23 October with a 
reminder of the outstanding action. When doing so, it noted that the application hadnt 
been accessed in the last 31 days  referring to its timeframe for expiration  and 
advised that the application would be cancelled within five days if there was no activity 
within five days. I think it was clear from this email that Mr Z needed to complete the 
outstanding action within five days or the application would be cancelled.
Ive then not seen that Mr Z took any action until he called HSBC on 3 November to 
advise that he had been unable to visit a branch to attend to the ID issues as hed 
been self-isolating. While the delay was totally understandable and doubtless out of Mr 
Zs hands, I think the application had expired by this point in line with HSBCs standard 
process and as per the email it had sent to Mr Z on 23 October. So I dont think it is 
due to a fault on HSBCs part that Mr Zs account application lapsed. 
It follows that I dont think HSBC deprived Mr Z of access to the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme. By the time he was looking to resume his account application, HSBC had 
stopped accepting Bounce Back Loan applications from new customers (and so also 
ceased to offer the necessary feeder accounts). 
Its also worth highlighting here that Mr Z had plenty of time to approach an alternative 
lender once HSBC advised him in November that it couldnt proceed with his 
application given that the Scheme ran until 31 March 2021. Mr Z could also have 
reapplied to HSBC down the line, as the bank later resumed accepting applications 
from new customers. In any event, the Bounce Back Loan Scheme is now closed  
even to exceptional applications, whatever the circumstances  so there is no means 
by which HSBC could consider an application from Mr Z now even if I were to find in 
his favour on this point. 
I think HSBC caused some confusion by how it handled Mr Zs application after he got 
in touch on 3 November 2020. As explained above, I think the application had lapsed 
by then. So when Mr Z called, he shouldve been told that. Instead, he was told to go 
into the branch to provide his ID and continue with the application. After providing the 
ID documentation and having not heard anything about the application, Mr Z then 
called the bank again on 10 November to chase an update and only at that point was 
he told that the application may have expired. None of this ought to have been necessary  HSBC couldve written to Mr Z to confirm that the application had lapsed 
at the time, or at the very least told him so when he called on 3 November.
So I think Mr Z was put to some avoidable inconvenience as a result of how HSBC 
handled his application, even if it didnt unfairly cancel it in the first place. The bank 
has already paid Mr Z compensation of £200, which I think is fair for the trouble and 
upset he was caused by these issues.
Taking all of the above into account, Im not currently intending to require HSBC to 
take any further action in response to this complaint.
HSBC accepted my provisional decision. Mr Z didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no further information or evidence for me to take into account 
following my provisional decision, Ive not seen any reason to reach a different conclusion. 
So this final decision simply confirms my provisional findings, as set out above.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already paid Mr Z compensation of £200 and I think that is a fair 
way to resolve this complaint in all the circumstances, so Im not requiring it to do anything 
more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman