DRN-3321957
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the quality of a car he acquired under a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as McLaren Financial Services 
(SCUK).
Both Mr R and SCUK have had representatives at times but, to keep things simple, Ill 
mainly refer to Mr R and SCUK. 
What happened
Mr R acquired a new car under a three-year conditional sale agreement with SCUK in 
October 2019. The on the road price was £120,000. But I think the following figures that Ive 
been shown are also relevant:
Vehicle basic price  £ 130,833.33 
Factory fitted options  £   27,749.98 
Discount  £   60,141.67 
Sub total  £   98,441.64 
VAT  £   19,688.36 
Road fund licence  £     1,815.00 
First registration fee  £          55.00 
On the road price  £ 120,000.00 
Mr R has explained more about the discount he received. He tells us the supplying dealer, in 
partnership with SCUK, contributed to the discount. And that a deposit of around £23,000 
Mr R had put towards a previous car also financed by SCUK was carried over and put 
towards the discount. 
To give some background to this, Mr R tells us he acquired a car in July 2018 under a 
finance agreement with SCUK (car 1) and paid a deposit of around £23,000. He said it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality and over the course of the next few months repairs were 
attempted without success. Mr R tells us the manufacturer replaced car 1 with car 2, but he 
says car 2 wasnt of satisfactory quality either. Mr R also said he was unhappy finance 
agreements werent dealt with properly by SCUK and that they were produced unsigned. 
Mr R tells us he decided to acquire the current car (car 3) on the basis of his £23,000 deposit 
from car 1 being put towards it. Otherwise, he would have wanted to walk away by rejecting 
car 2 and receiving his deposit back. Mr R entered into a new agreement (agreement 2) with 
SCUK to acquire car 3. 
Repayments towards the agreement for car 3 were £725 per month for three years followed 
by a final payment of around £105,000. Mr R also entered into a sales agency arrangement 
which meant he could sell the car back to SCUK at the end of the term for a guaranteed 
amount of the final payment, providing certain conditions were met. So he had the option of 
walking away after three years without having to make the final payment. 
A manufacturer approved garage carried out a pre-delivery inspection on car 3 which 
checked the condition of the car and that it had the necessary accessories. This included a 
short road test. And a third-party firm also carried out a pre-delivery inspection on it that said 
The paint finish itself was noted to be of a high standard, as expected for a hand painted 
vehicle, where all panels were uniform throughout. But the inspection also pointed out what it 
referred to as a number of very minor discrepancies: a small scratch to an air intake; debris 
and/or polish on the inner surfaces of two air intake chambers as well as various seals; an 
incorrectly fitted seal; white mark on a side trim. 
The inspection set out there was a certain expectation for a high-performance supercar, and 
that the car Mr R was acquiring had been finished to a high standard. But it also pointed out 
the car was hand built and painted so would always appear unique when compared to 
another model. 
The supplying dealer rectified the issues highlighted above and a further inspection was 
carried out in October 2019 that said all cosmetic issues had been resolved. 
Mr R, however, contacted SCUK about certain defects within a couple of weeks of the car 
being supplied, having covered less than 100 miles. He highlighted the following issues:
White noise.
Door strut failure.
Door trim finish. 
Sill trim issues. 
Keyless entry.
Passenger seat ghost. 
Panel delamination. 
Mr R set out in an email to SCUK dated 28 October 2019 that the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA) has remedies available of a replacement, a price reduction or the right to reject. 
SCUK responded to say the first step would be to allow the supplying dealer to inspect the 
car. But Mr R was unhappy with this. He would have preferred the manufacturer or another 
approved garage to inspect it. SCUK suggested the firm that carried out the pre-delivery 
inspection, but Mr R didnt think it was suitably independent. SCUK proposed another 
independent firm to carry out an inspection and said the report would be disclosed if it was 
going to rely on it. Mr R said he was happy for the independent firm to inspect the car at the 
same time as the manufacturer. But due to the car being a high-performance supercar using 
technologies not used anywhere else in the general automotive market he thought the 
manufacturer would need to give its opinion. 
SCUK said it had been unable to persuade the manufacturer to get involved. It said Mr R 
should take the car to an approved garage to examine it for any warranty work required. It 
said it wouldnt be productive for an engineer instructed on its behalf to carry out the 
inspection without support from someone at the approved garage whos able to discuss what 
works can be carried out under warranty. SCUK said Mr R could have the vehicle 
inspected... at the [supplying] dealership there with the support of their [manufacturer] 
trained technicians or to take the vehicle to another dealership. [SCUK] will still have their 
nominated expert present, but, we emphasise that the purpose of this is to report back 
with a view on the defects about which [Mr R] complains. 
Mr R wasnt happy that the manufacturer wouldnt get involved. Hed mentioned that the 
bonding agent had failed in certain areas and so he thought a sample of the mastic would need to be tested by the manufacturer. He said the manufacturer should have an expert that 
could attend. And he said if the inspection wasnt arranged soon, he wanted to reject the car. 
SCUK said Mr R was outside of the time limit for the short term right to reject, so repair or 
replacement were the only options at that stage. It said the two options he had were to take 
the car to the supplying dealer for inspection and repair if needed, or to take the car to 
another approved garage and have the inspection carried out there. It also said it would not 
accept a rejection. 
Mr R didnt respond to SCUK. And he decided to take the car to a different manufacturer 
approved garage. He says he still wanted to reject the goods although, from what Ive seen, 
Ive not been supplied further evidence he tried to do that via the other approved garage. 
The manufacturer approved garage inspected and offered to resolve certain issues. 
The table below shows the faults investigated and the rectification comments. The repairs 
were carried out under warranty.
Date Fault Rectification comment
17-Dec-19 Wipers inoperative Replace wiper motor
19-Dec-19 White noise As expected
19-Dec-19 Panel bonding failing Clean off adhesive and rebond
19-Dec-19 Panel not solid or bonded Rebonded
19-Dec-19Passenger seat belt sensor 
fault Calibrate
19-Dec-19 Key not found issue No fault found
19-Dec-19 Sill loose Refit panel and secure
19-Dec-19 Parking sensor fault No fault found
19-Dec-19 Door strut fault No fault found
19-Dec-19 Comfort entry fault No fault found - calibrate seat
From what I can see the mileage recorded on the 17 December 2019 job card when the car 
was handed in was 500 miles. 
Mr R says a manufacturer approved garage gifted him titanium wheel bolts and an outdoor 
car cover free of charge at the end of January 2020. He says the bolts are worth around 
£600 and the cover around £200. The manufacturer also paid him £7,500 as a goodwill 
payment through an approved garage. The manufacturer has said these payments are 
normally made in recognition of repair delays or where cars have been off the road for a long 
time. 
Further work was carried out to the car between 28 February 2020 and 3 March 2020 by the 
manufacturer approved garage because the door glass kept dropping. The door release 
switch was replaced under warranty. The mileage at this point was around 2,700 miles. 
Mr R asked to reject the car in April 2020. He referred to previous problems he had with it. 
And said there were other issues present:
Passenger seat belt warning alarm fault. 
Loud rattle when starting the car. 
White noise that Mr R says was not present on another car of the same model hed 
driven. 
Paint bubbling / rust on door sill.Key not found in the vehicle warning fault. 
SCUK asked for evidence of the faults and Mr R told it the car was still with a manufacturer 
approved garage. Mr R thought SCUK had enough evidence of faults. He also highlighted 
courtesy cars hed been given by the garage were not of the same class as the car hed 
acquired on finance with SCUK. 
SCUK wrote to Mr R in June 2020 to say it had not been able to inspect or repair the car  
so it wanted to be given that opportunity. Alternatively, it asked if Mr R would like to 
contribute towards the cost of an independent inspection. It expected this to cost around 
£4,000 plus VAT. Around this time the car was taken to another approved garage for further 
repairs. Mr R thought it would make more sense to arrange the inspection after the repairs 
had been completed. And he was concerned the inspection would be carried out by the firm 
that completed the pre-delivery inspection as he didnt think the inspection was carried out 
properly and was concerned that the pre-delivery inspector didnt drive the car. If SCUK 
were to arrange an inspection itself, Mr R wanted to know who would carry it out, and he 
wanted to have sight of the report. He was also worried as some of the faults were 
intermittent and so might not have been picked up. 
SCUK indicated it hadnt decided on an expert at that point, but it thought it likely any expert 
would drive the car. It also said if Mr R were to contribute to the cost of the report, hed 
receive it. But if he didnt, the report would attract privilege and therefore would not be 
shared with him unless that privilege was waived. 
Mr R wasnt happy with the options he was given. He thought hed indicated he wanted to 
reject the car in October 2019, and he highlighted multiple failed repair attempts. He was not 
happy he might not be allowed to see a copy of the report. He said he would arrange his 
own inspection if needed, but he thought hed given enough evidence of the faults by way of 
video and picture evidence, as well as details of approved garages that had undertaken 
repairs. 
SCUK didnt agree. In summary, it said:
Mr R didnt reject the car in October 2019, and hed lost his right to the short term 
right to reject. 
Any repairs Mr R had arranged had been carried out without SCUKs permission and 
without it having inspected the car. 
Weve been supplied the following comments relating to work undertaken on the car in 
August 2020 when the mileage was around 3,500:
Replaced occupant seat sensor.
Brake component replaced under goodwill to stop squeak.
Key Fault.
Paintwork bubbling. 
Mr R decided to arrange his own inspection later on that month as he still thought there were 
issues despite the car having just been repaired. He paid £2,500 for the report. And by this 
point the car had covered around 3,590 miles. The report concluded:
 the build quality and panel alignment is to a very poor standard taking into account 
the vehicle brand and the multiple attempts at repairs. The examiner is of the opinion 
from the findings of this report that the defects noted to build quality and panel 
alignment would have been present at the point of purchase. the vehicle in its present condition has multiple defects present rendering the 
vehicle of unsatisfactory quality and unfair [sic] for purpose.
The examiner is extremely concerned over the high pitched whine being emitted from 
the vehicle which not only is a major distraction to the driver of the vehicle but could 
result in a failure of the steering system and as such the vehicle should not be driven 
on the public highway in its present condition.
The examiner is of the opinion from this limited inspection that the abnormal noise 
level may be related to the vehicles power steering system which in its present 
condition is not acceptable and further investigation into this concern will be required. 
If, as it may be suggested, that the abnormal noise level is simply a design 
characteristic of the vehicles [sic] steering system this would not be considered 
acceptable for a vehicle of this type and brand.
To conclude, It was the opinion of the examiner from the findings of this report that 
the vehicle would not have been of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose at the point 
of sale in terms of Section 9 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and would not have 
been of suitable quality or fit for purpose at the point of purchase in terms of Section 
10 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015. Multiple attempts at repairs and a significant 
timeframe has elapsed with the Pursuer not having the vehicle and as such a 
rejection of the vehicle should be granted.
Since the report was carried out Mr R had a service carried out in October 2020. And the 
windscreen was replaced due to a stress fracture around this time. At this point the mileage 
was around 4,400. I understand it was seen again in December 2020 because the heating, 
ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) box was coming away.
Mr R said the car had another issue with the window not working in April 2021, and he says 
there was an issue with mould which he thought was as a result of a common fault with this 
type of car due to water ingress from the boot area. In November 2021, another service was 
carried out, and the mileage was around 8,800. 
Towards the end of the term there was an issue with the suspension that was investigated. 
The mileage at that point was around 11,000. But afterwards, Mr R says the car still had the 
following issues:
White noise.
Interior panel loose.
Rust on window trim.
Front bumper loose.
Keyless entry.
Passenger seat ghost. 
Intermittent radio issues.
Mr R has now handed the car back to SCUK having covered around 11,500 miles. A 
company inspected the car for damage in November 2022 when it was handed back. The 
inspection found:
Front bumper dented with paint damage.
Front bumper molding scratched (painted) over.
Near side front wheel scratched up to 50mm.
Near side rear quarter panel rusted over 5mm.
Off-side rear quarter panel rusted over 5mm.
No charges were applied in relation to the damage. In summary, the position between the parties prior to the complaint being referred to me for 
a provisional decision was as follows. Mr R thought the car was of unsatisfactory quality and 
that he should have been able to reject it. SCUK said it did not authorise the repairs that 
Mr R had carried out. As it wasnt given its own opportunity to inspect or repair the car it 
didnt accept rejection. It questioned why Mr R continued to use the car if he wanted to reject 
it. It said that Mr Rs continued use of the car prohibits rejection. It also thought the complaint 
should be dismissed or rejected. It asserted that the complaint is frivolous because it thinks it 
was brought too early i.e., before SCUK was given the opportunity to inspect or repair the 
goods. It said considering the complaint might seriously impair the effective operation of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service because it thought deciding it may lead to other complainants 
exploiting the complaints process by denying traders their right to be given the opportunity to 
repair goods before rejection is made available to a consumer. 
SCUK had also said any complaint about the deposit should not be considered as part of 
this complaint because the deposit relates to a separate, settled finance agreement. And it 
said a complaint relating to this has been brought out of time because it was referred more 
than six months after a previous final response.
I issued a provisional decision that said:
I want to acknowledge that whilst Ive summarised the events of the complaint, Ive reviewed 
everything on file. If I dont comment on something, its not because I havent thought about 
it. Im focussing on what I consider are the key issues.
There are some key questions I need to ask myself to help me decide what, if anything, 
SCUK needs to do to put things right:
1. Is the complaint in jurisdiction? 
2. Should the complaint be dismissed?
3. Was the car of satisfactory quality?
4. If applicable, what remedies are available under the CRA? 
5. Does SCUK need to take any action to put things right?
Is the complaint in jurisdiction?
Ive first thought about what the rules say about what complaints we can consider. 
SCUK says our service should not be considering the complaint because its been brought 
too early - as in prior to SCUK sending its final response letter and/or before it was given the 
opportunity to repair. 
I think its relevant to first consider what the rules say about our jurisdiction in relation to that. 
There are rules in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Dispute Resolution chapter of its 
handbook (also known as DISP or the DISP rules) that set out when the Ombudsman 
Service can consider complaints.
DISP 2.8.1R says our service can only consider a complaint if:
(1) the respondent has already sent the complainant its final response or summary 
resolution communication; or 
(2) in relation to a complaint that is not an EMD complaint or a PSD complaint, eight 
weeks have elapsed since the respondent received the complaint;
unless:
(4) the respondent consents and:
(a) the Ombudsman has informed the complainant that the respondent must deal 
with the complaint within eight weeks (or for EMD complaints and PSD complaints 15 
business days or, in exceptional circumstances, 35 business days) and that it may 
resolve the complaint more quickly than the Ombudsman; and
(b) the complainant nevertheless wishes the Ombudsman to deal with the complaint.
So just because Mr R contacted our service before SCUK sent its final response letter and 
before it was given the opportunity to repair, the Ombudsman Service still had to wait for a 
final response or eight weeks to pass before we could start considering the complaint unless 
SCUK consented to the complaint being taken on by the Ombudsman Service before then 
and so long as the provisions under DISP 2.8.1R(4) were met. Its not unusual for potential 
complainants to come to our service before theyve exhausted the firms own complaint 
process. In this case, once the eight weeks passed the Ombudsman Service began its 
investigation of this complaint. Overall, I am satisfied that this complaint would not fall 
outside the Ombudsman Services jurisdiction just because Mr R referred the complaint 
before the final response letter had been issued or the eight weeks had passed. Nor would 
the complaint be out of jurisdiction because Mr R referred the complaint to the Ombudsman 
Service before SCUK was given an opportunity to repair the vehicle.  
Ive next thought about our jurisdiction concerning the deposit. SCUK said it sent a final 
response letter concerning car 1 (and agreement 1) in March 2019. Mr R paid a deposit 
towards car 1. DISP 2.8.2R says that (unless the firm consents or there are exceptional 
circumstances): 
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication;
However, it appears that the transfer of the deposit towards the discount may have been part 
of the negotiations relating to the finance agreement entered into for car 3. If I conclude that 
this is correct and also conclude that Mr R should be entitled to reject car 3 then I am 
satisfied that I can consider whether Mr R has suffered any loss concerning the deposit. I am 
satisfied that I would be able to do this in those circumstances as the deposit would have 
been included in the negotiations for the agreement for car 3 which is subject to this 
complaint.  Should the complaint be dismissed?
For complaints referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service on or after 9 July 2015 an 
ombudsman may dismiss complaints that are within our jurisdiction for the reasons set out at 
DISP 3.3.4AR and, where relevant, DISP 3.3.4BG. SCUK thinks the complaint shouldnt be 
considered because its frivolous. The reason SCUK considers the complaint is frivolous is 
because it says its been brought too early. Even though Mr R referred his complaint before 
SCUK issued its final response, I dont think that makes it frivolous. Its quite normal for 
complainants to contact our service before the firm has issued a final response or eight 
weeks have passed. And just because SCUK says Mr R may have sought to reject the 
goods prior to a first repair that doesnt make the complaint frivolous. I therefore dont 
consider that it would be appropriate to dismiss the complaint on that basis.   
I could, however, dismiss a complaint if I thought it would seriously impair the effective 
operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service. DISP 3.3.4BG sets out examples of the 
types of complaint that would potentially do that. While the list of examples doesnt cover 
everything, I dont think Mr Rs complaint would seriously impair the effective operation of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. I dont think, as SCUK suggest, hes brought the complaint 
with the intention of using it as a tool to deny SCUK its statutory right to repair as a trader. 
I appreciate SCUK says it is entitled to take steps in court against Mr R to enforce its right to 
repair. SCUK also says if theres any question about its rights, the complaint should be 
dismissed. But Mr R is also entitled to bring the complaint to our service to consider. Mr R 
contacted our service because he was unhappy with how SCUK was responding to his 
concerns about the quality of a car he acquired under a regulated conditional sale 
agreement  complaints about or concerning financial services products are exactly the sort 
of thing our service was set up by Parliament to deal with. I do not consider that in 
considering this complaint I am being asked to decide something thats not the Ombudsman 
Services place to do so. Just because SCUK thinks the complaint is better suited to court I 
am not satisfied that this alone would mean that it would be inappropriate for the 
Ombudsman Service to consider this complaint.  
Overall, I am satisfied that I can consider this matter based on the written submissions and 
evidence presented by Mr R and SCUK. It is a matter which can be dealt with based on the 
submissions and evidence provided and does not require the procedures available to a 
court, for example cross-examination of witness evidence, in order to determine the 
complaint. For all the reasons I have set out above I dont consider this is a complaint that is 
better suited to be determined by a court and I do not consider it would be appropriate to 
dismiss Mr Rs complaint on this basis. 
Finally, I also note SCUK thinks the complaint should be dismissed because it effectively 
tampers with its settlement agreement with Mr R in relation to the way car 3s deal was set 
up off the back of what happened with car 1 and car 2. But that settlement agreement 
doesnt prevent Mr R bringing a complaint to our service about an act or omission in relation 
to the current regulated conditional sale agreement. Im considering a complaint about the 
conditional sale agreement concerning car 3 only  namely, a complaint about agreement 2. 
And Im not persuaded the presence of this settlement agreement between SCUK and Mr R 
means the complaint about agreement 2 is better suited to court. Was the car of satisfactory quality? 
As I am satisfied this complaint is in jurisdiction and that it would not be appropriate to 
dismiss, I will turn to the merits of the complaint. DISP 3.6.1R provides that: 
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
DISP 3.6.4R sets out what I am required to take into account when considering what is fair 
and reasonable: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the 
Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Mr R acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement. Our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of regulated consumer credit agreements. 
The CRA covers agreements like the one Mr R entered into. The CRA implies terms into the 
agreement that the quality of goods is satisfactory. SCUK accepts that it is the trader for 
the purposes of the CRA and is therefore responsible for dealing with a complaint about their 
quality.
The CRA says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the 
goods, the price or other consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all other relevant 
circumstances. For this case, I think the other relevant circumstances include the age and 
mileage of the car at the point of delivery.  
Section 9(3) of the CRA says: 
The quality of goods includes their state and condition; and the following aspects 
(among others) are in appropriate cases aspects of the quality of goods
(a)  fitness for all the purposes for which goods of that kind are usually 
supplied;
(b)  appearance and finish;
(c)  freedom from minor defects;
(d)  safety;
(e)  durability.
In Mr Rs case, the car was described as new when it was supplied and the third-party pre-
delivery inspection said that the car had only completed 9 miles. The price of it as set out in 
agreement 2 was £120,000 (including VAT). Its a very expensive high-performance 
supercar. Therefore, I think a reasonable person would have expected it to have been in 
perfect condition, safe to use, durable and free from even minor defects.  Ive set out in the background the faults Mr R complained about and the works that were 
carried out under warranty by manufacturer approved garages. Ive also set out the 
conclusions of the independent report Mr R had carried out, and Ive summarised the 
findings of the other inspections. So I wont go over everything again in detail. But to 
summarise, Mr R complained about the following issues within a couple of weeks of 
acquisition:
White noise.
Door strut failure.
Door trim finish. 
Sill trim issues. 
Keyless entry.
Passenger seat ghost. 
Panel delamination. 
Further, while not all the faults were found during the subsequent inspection by other 
manufacturer approved garages, the following repairs were completed within around two 
months of acquisition:
Replace wiper motor.
Rebonding or refitting of panels. 
Calibration of keyless passenger seat belt sensor.
The following repair also took place within the first six month of acquisition: 
Replace door glass switch. 
After the first six months Mr R complained about the following faults:
Passenger seat belt warning alarm fault (ghost issue). 
Loud rattle when starting the car. 
White noise that Mr R says was not present on another car of the same model hed 
driven. 
Paint bubbling / rust on door sill.
Key not found in the vehicle warning fault. 
Works were carried out in relation to the following: 
Replaced occupant seat sensor.
Brake component replaced under goodwill to stop squeak.
Key Fault.
Paintwork bubbling. 
Windscreen replacement due to stress fracture.
HVAC box coming away.But Mr R says the car still had the following issues:
White noise.
Interior panel loose.
Rust on window trim.
Front bumper loose.
Keyless entry.
Passenger seat ghost. 
Intermittent radio issues.
The CRA sets out that goods which do not conform to the contract at any time within the 
period of six months beginning with the day on which the goods were delivered to the 
consumer must be taken not to have conformed to it on that day unless its established the 
goods did conform to the contract on that day or that the application is incompatible with the 
nature of the goods or with how they fail to conform to the contract. 
Faults within first six months of acquisition  
Taking into account Mr Rs complaint within a couple of weeks of acquisition; the repairs that 
were carried out in relation to those issues; and the findings of the independent report Mr R 
arranged, I think theres a strong basis to conclude faults in relation to the following were 
present or developing at the point of delivery:
1. White noise.
2. Panel misalignment. 
3. Wiper motor.
4. Passenger seat belt sensor.
5. Keyless entry.
6. Door glass switch.
Points 1 and 2 were complained about within a couple of weeks of delivery and 
subsequently found in the experts report which Mr R commissioned. Ill deal with point 1 
first. 
Mr R complained about white noise within a couple of weeks of receipt of the car. And he 
has consistently said the issue remained throughout the time he possessed the car. Im 
satisfied the noise the technician has highlighted is in relation to the noise Mr R originally 
complained about. I note the technician thinks the white noise (or high-pitched whine as he 
calls it) may be in relation to the power steering and back in December 2019 the 
manufacturer approved garage inspected the power steering pump in relation to Mr Rs 
complaint about the white noise. I appreciate the approved garage said the noise was as 
expected. But Mr R has said the noise wasnt present on another car of the same model 
hed driven. Taking all this into account, I consider its more likely than not the white noise is 
in relation to a fault as opposed to a design characteristic. And I think its in relation to the 
power steering.     I dont think Mr R or the pre-delivery inspectors could have known about the white noise 
during a visual inspection.  But the supplying garage confirmed that it had carried out a road 
test of maximum 15 minutes /10km (3 miles) and the white noise Mr R went on to complain 
about does not appear to have been recorded as occurring. I dont know why the fault wasnt 
picked up on this road test. Perhaps it wasnt immediately present. Or perhaps the road test 
wasnt intended to pick those sorts of issues up. The report simply asks whether a road test 
has been completed. There doesnt appear to be a check recorded for the sound of the car. 
And also, even if the white noise wasnt immediately noticeable or noticed (which isnt what 
the report says), it doesnt show the root cause of the issue didnt exist  especially 
considering the fault was reported in a matter of weeks. When considering all of the 
available evidence, I am of the view that it is more likely than not that the white noise issue 
would have been present or developing at the point of delivery. And theres no indication 
from any of the other inspections occurring after the fault arose that the fault was caused by 
wear and tear. 
As regards point 2, the technician in the report Mr R commissioned is quite clear that various 
panels are misaligned. The technician refers to the panel alignment as being of very poor 
standard and that the defects relating to it would have been present at the point of purchase. 
Ive had to consider why they werent picked up on the initial inspections. But, from looking at 
the photos, the misalignment isnt stark. Its not clear therefore whether the panels were 
misaligned at the point of supply or whether the fault occurred shortly afterwards when Mr R 
complained.
When taking all this into account I consider it more likely than not the panels would have 
been misaligned at the point of delivery or that the root cause of the fault was developing at 
the point of supply. And like with the white noise, there doesnt appear to be any suggestion 
raised in the inspections occurring after the fault arose that the panel misalignment was 
down to wear and tear. 
There were repairs carried out in relation to points 3, 4 and 5 within a couple of months of 
delivery. Mr R complained about points 4 and 5 within a couple of weeks of delivery too. It 
looks like point 5 might have been an intermittent fault that wasnt repaired properly. The 
report Mr R commissioned set out that there was an occasion during testing that the key 
wasnt detected to start the car. Further, as regards point 6 (the door glass switch), this also 
had to be replaced within six months of acquisition.
Again, the faults werent noted on the road test or pre-delivery inspections. That may well 
demonstrate the faults had not manifested at the point of the road test however it does not 
demonstrate that the root cause of the problem was not present at the point of delivery. 
Some of the faults were complained about within a couple of weeks of delivery and other 
faults were repaired within a few months. I also note again that Ive not seen any evidence to 
suggest these faults were down to usual wear and tear. 
Mr R has highlighted a couple of other faults with the car which were noted within six 
months, and which he says were repaired. Ive set those out above. But Ive not been 
provided with job cards or further details of the faults in the inspection Mr R commissioned, 
so its difficult to reach firm conclusions here. However, based on the available evidence, 
when considering the timeline for when those faults developed and that there does not 
appear to be any evidence suggesting these faults were caused by wear and tear it seems 
more likely than not that the root cause of those faults would have been present at the point 
of supply. Faults outside the first six months
Ive also thought about the other issues Mr R has mentioned that were found after the first 
six months. Weve asked for job cards relating to these but have only been given a brief 
summary of what happened for some of the faults. Ive set all of this out above. I can see in 
August 2020 there was work in relation to: a seat sensor; brake squeaking; key fault; 
paintwork bubbling. And later in 2020 there was work in relation to the windscreen and the 
HVAC box. The seat sensor and key fault were noticed by Mr R shortly after acquiring the 
car. And aside from the brake squeaking (which could feasibly be down to wear and tear), 
even though we dont have evidence all these faults were found during the road test, they all 
manifested within a year or so of Mr R acquiring the car. Neither party has suggested that 
these faults were down to wear and tear or driver misuse. Given how soon these faults 
developed I consider it more likely than not that the root causes of these issues, aside from 
possibly the brake squeaking, were developing at the point of delivery. 
I should also point out there were other faults mentioned by Mr R after the first year or so of 
supply including with the suspension, the door glass, and an issue that caused mould. But 
Ive not been provided much evidence of the problems, the cause, or what repairs were 
carried out. Ive noted there was an issue with the door glass switch in the first six months. 
But I dont have enough evidence to know if the subsequent issue was related to it or not. 
Im therefore unable to say whether this is a reoccurrence of the same issue. When thinking 
about the other faults its more difficult to reach firm conclusions about those compared to 
the faults that happened within the first year of so of supply. But I think I have enough 
evidence of other faults to be able to determine the complaint. 
Summary on satisfactory quality
Given the major distraction of the white noise, I think this ought to be classed as a safety 
issue. I also think the underlying fault is likely as a result of an issue with the cars durability. 
Taking into account the reports and inspections carried out, I think it likely the fault is related 
to the power steering, and I wouldnt have expected the power steering on a new car, for this 
price, to have this sort of defect shortly after Mr R took delivery of it. 
I think the fault concerning the panel misalignment which Ive said was present or developing 
at the point of supply meant the car was not free from minor defects. Its also a durability 
issue. A brand-new car shouldnt have issues with misaligned panels within six months of it 
being supplied. While not stark, I think it falls below the standard a reasonable person would 
find satisfactory of a new and expensive high-end performance car.
With regards to points 3  6 (the wiper motor; passenger seat belt sensor; keyless entry; 
door glass switch), I think these were major defects and durability issues. Having issues with 
wipers, seat belt sensors and door glass motors could all impact safety as well. And an issue 
with the keyless entry would indicate the car wasnt durable.  
Ive also set out above the specific faults outside of the first six months in relation to the seat 
sensor, key fault, paintwork bubbling, windscreen and HVAC box that, on balance, Ive found 
were likely present at the point of supply. I think the seat sensor and key fault seems to be 
recurring issues as Ive mentioned them above, and it looks like they werent repaired 
properly. I think the paintwork bubbling, the issue with the windscreen and HVAC box were 
also major defects and issues with durability. I have considered all the evidence provided to me about the faults which I consider were 
present or developing at the point of supply. Having done so, I dont think the issues with the 
quality of the car which I have set out above would meet the standard a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory given that the car was a new, expensive supercar with next to no 
mileage.
Overall, when considering the faults which were present or developing at the point of supply, 
I am of the view that the car wasnt free from minor defects; it lacked durability; and had 
elements that could be considered unsafe. Considering the number of faults which arose 
and taking into account the age, price and mileage of the car, Im of the view the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. As such, I do not consider that it has been established that the car did 
conform to the contract on the day of delivery.
What remedies are available under the CRA?
Where goods dont conform to the contract because of a breach of terms relating to their 
quality consumers are able to exercise their short term right to reject. In this case, section 
22(3) of the CRA says: 
The time limit for exercising the short-term right to reject (unless 
subsection (4) applies) is the end of 30 days beginning with the first day after these 
have all happened
a) ownership or (in the case of a contract for the hire of goods, a hire-purchase 
agreement or a conditional sales contract) possession of the goods has been 
transferred to the consumer,
b) the goods have been delivered, and
c) where the contract requires the trader to install the goods or take other action 
to enable the consumer to use them, the trader has notified the consumer that 
the action has been taken.
But it also says a consumer who has the short term right to reject loses it if the time limit for 
exercising it passes without the consumer exercising it, unless the trader and consumer 
agree that it may be exercised later. SCUK doesnt dispute that it is the trader for the 
purposes of the CRA. 
The CRA also says if the consumer requests or agrees to the repair or replacement of 
goods, the time limit would stop running for the length of the waiting period. 
In Mr Rs case, he contacted SCUK within the relevant short term right to reject time limit in 
his October 2019 correspondence and if he had sought to exercise his short term right to 
reject I consider that he would have been able to do so validly. But, in the contact about the 
faults in October 2019, he didnt validly seek to reject the car, he just said rejection was 
available under the CRA. Ive thought about the time limit and whether it wouldve stopped during a waiting period. The 
waiting period begins the day the consumer requests or agrees to the repair or replacement 
of the goods and ends with the day on which the consumer receives goods supplied by the 
trader in response to the request or agreement. But as Mr R didnt request or agree to 
repairs through SCUK, I dont think there was an associated waiting period. Mr R contacted 
SCUK setting out the faults hed found, and he set out the various remedies as per the CRA. 
But he simply asked SCUK for comments, rather than specifically asking for a repair. SCUK 
let Mr R know that an inspection should be carried out to establish the faults. At this point 
Mr R says he welcomed an inspection but didnt want the supplying dealer to carry it out due 
to the problems he felt hed had with it. So the 30 days passed before Mr R eventually made 
his request to reject in April 2020. Taking all this into account, I dont think Mr R validly 
exercised his right to the short-term rejection of the goods because the time limit expired 
before he sought to reject the goods in April 2020.  
Ive next thought about the right to repair or replacement. In this case, as the goods, to my 
mind, did not conform to the implied term of satisfactory quality, Mr R had the right to ask 
SCUK to repair them. The CRA sets out that if the consumer requires the trader to repair or 
replace the goods, the trader must do so within a reasonable time and without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer. And the trader must bear any necessary costs incurred in 
doing so (including in particular the cost of any labour, materials or postage). 
In this case, Mr R agreed someone other than the trader could repair certain faults. So I 
dont think it would be fair to hold SCUK liable for any delays in getting the car repaired here. 
I also dont think I need to go over all of the repairs that were successful as Ive set them out 
earlier in this provisional decision. 
There are other issues Ive found which make the car of unsatisfactory quality which I cant 
see were repaired  the panel alignment; the white noise; the passenger seat sensor, and 
the keyless entry. Ive not seen any evidence to dispute that.  
Even though the contract has now ended and SCUK has said it wasnt given its opportunity 
to inspect or repair, Ive also thought about what the CRA says about the right to a price 
reduction or final right to reject. Mr R didnt request a price reduction, or indeed another 
repair, he wanted to reject the goods and receive his deposit back. One of the reasons which 
the CRA says that a consumer can exercise their final right to reject is if, after one repair or 
replacement, the goods dont conform to the contract. 
As Ive said above, outside of the short term right to reject period, the trader should be given 
an opportunity to repair the goods before the consumer has the right to exercise their final 
right to reject. In this case, Mr R did contact SCUK when he noticed problems with the car.  
But by deciding to take the car to another manufacturer approved garage I cant say he gave 
SCUK or its agents the goods to repair. By his own admission, Mr R said hed lost 
confidence with the supplying dealer.
As Mr R didnt give SCUK the opportunity to repair the goods, SCUK said he had no right to 
reject the goods. And I can understand this position taking into account what the CRA says. However, the law is only one of the factors I am required to take into account when 
considering what is fair and reasonable. As I have already set out above, DISP 3.6.4R says: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the 
Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time
So whilst I need to take the law as one of the considerations into account when determining 
what is fair and reasonable, it is not the only consideration I am required to take into 
account. Im able to depart from the law where I think its fair and reasonable to do so. Ive 
thought about whether I should do that in Mr Rs case.
Mr R asked another manufacturer approved garage to carry out repairs. Mr R took the car to 
two different manufacturer approved garages to carry out repairs but having done so there 
were still things wrong with it. One of the first issues raised after SCUK supplied Mr R the car 
was in relation to the white noise  this remained an issue, despite the car having been seen 
by two different manufacturer approved garages. 
I have therefore considered whether it made a difference that Mr R took the car to one 
manufacturer approved garage over another. Having done so, Im not convinced SCUK was 
prejudiced by not being given the option to carry out the repairs itself, or to provide authority 
for another approved garage to do so on its behalf. Ill explain why. 
Had Mr R asked SCUK to arrange the inspection or repair SCUK initially said it would have 
asked the supplying dealer to carry it out. As Ive set out in the background, SCUK also gave 
other options to Mr R. It offered to arrange for the car to be inspected by the firm that carried 
out the pre-delivery inspection. It then proposed an independent inspector to look at the car 
along with approved technicians. But it said it was unable to get the manufacturer involved. 
Mr R was unhappy with this, and SCUK ended the email exchanges by saying the two 
options Mr R had were to take the car to the supplying dealer for inspection and repair if 
needed, or to take the car to another approved garage and have the inspection carried out 
there. So, while I appreciate it was trying find a solution for Mr R, I think it couldve been 
clearer when setting out what it felt was acceptable given thered been various options put 
forward for Mr R. 
SCUK made the point originally that the inspection it wanted to arrange would be carried out 
with manufacturer trained technicians (potentially with an independent expert carrying out a 
report as well). By taking the car to one approved garage over another (with manufacturer 
trained technicians) I think it more likely than not that Mr R has ended up in the same 
position. Ive not been told that the inspection SCUK was going to arrange would have been 
fundamentally different to what the approved garages would have been required to do prior 
to deciding whether to carry out repairs. Mr R has said he chose the particular approved 
garage because he was told the best technician worked there. Given the garage(s) SCUK 
was proposing to use and the garage Mr R went to were approved garages on balance, I 
think they would have taken largely the same steps, in carrying out repairs. And I consider 
they would have taken the same steps with or without an independent expert present as 
well. I consider it more likely than not that the network of these approved garages would have 
similarly skilled mechanics, and similarly specialised equipment. And any repairs that were 
required would be completed using genuine parts. SCUK hasnt explained how things would 
have fundamentally played out differently had Mr R taken it up on one of the offers Ive set 
out above as opposed to doing what he did. It also hasnt explained how things would have 
played out differently had another independent report been carried out. SCUK hasnt said, 
for example, that it was going to arrange a more thorough inspection that is likely to have 
established the faults that Mr R went on to complain about. So, in all the circumstances, on 
balance I dont think SCUK was prejudiced by Mr Rs decision to take the car for inspection 
and repairs at a different manufacturer approved garage, without an SCUK expert present. 
Ive also thought about SCUKs later offer to resolve things when it proposed to have a jointly 
instructed independent report carried out. It also mentioned having an independent expert to 
assess the repairs carried out after the inspection.  Mr R had already had the car repaired by 
an approved garage at this point. Theres nothing to suggest the quality of the inspection and 
repairs Mr R arranged himself would have been deficient compared to what SCUK was 
originally proposing. I consider it more likely than not that further faults with the car would 
have arisen following those initial repairs whether or not Mr R had done what SCUK initially 
asked him to do i.e., going back to the supplying dealer, or having another approved 
manufacturer inspect the car with a nominated expert present. Had Mr R done what SCUK 
initially asked him to SCUK would have been provided one opportunity to carry out a repair. 
As I consider it more likely than not that further faults would have arisen following the repairs 
it would have been open to Mr R at that stage to seek rejection of the car. As such, I do not 
consider that it makes any difference that Mr R refused the offer of a joint inspection.
So overall, while I can understand the position SCUK took, had Mr R gone through the 
supplying dealer or another dealer with SCUKs nominated expert present as opposed to the 
other manufacturer approved garage then, on balance I think wed have broadly ended up in 
the same position. So, I dont consider SCUK was prejudiced by not being given an initial 
opportunity to repair. As such, I dont think it was fair and reasonable in the circumstances to 
insist on starting another inspection with the supplying dealer or by arranging a jointly 
instructed independent inspection. 
Further, I dont think Mr R was intentionally trying to take an action that would adversely 
impact his rights under the CRA. I agree any repair or rejection should have been arranged 
through SCUK for the purposes of the CRA. But Mr R had concerns with the supplying 
dealer, which is why he sought another manufacturer approved garage. The relationship 
between SCUK and Mr R started to break down. And Ive set out above that the instructions 
from SCUK could have been clearer. 
Moreover, Mr R had concerns about who was going to carry out the jointly instructed 
independent report, whether hed have sight of it, and who would carry out the repairs. He 
was hesitant to put up a significant sum of money for that report, so he ultimately decided to 
pay for his own report. I think its also important to note this was the third consecutive car 
hed been in possession of that he says had issues with quality. In all the circumstances, 
looking more widely based on what is fair and reasonable I can understand why Mr R was 
frustrated and I think he tried to resolve things in a way he thought was fair. SCUK has questioned why Mr R continued to use the car if he wanted to reject it. It has said 
this continued use is not compatible with seeking to reject the car and it has provided a note 
of the rationale applied by a Sheriff of the Sheriffs Court in Scotland in a recent judgment by 
that court. In summary, the note demonstrates that a Sheriffs Court issued a judgment 
which concluded that under Scots Law an individual is unable to reject goods under the CRA 
where that individual has continued to use the goods after attempting to reject them. The 
case concerned the quality of a car acquired under a finance agreement and the continued 
use of that car after attempting to reject it. The case was appealed and SCUK has provided 
me with a copy of the recent judgment of the Sheriff Appeal Court setting out the appeal had 
been refused. 
I note there is no governing law clause in the conditional sale agreement but if SCUK is 
correct that Scots law is the relevant law in this matter I consider it would be fair and 
reasonable to depart from the law for the following reasons. 
As it stands, Mr R referred his complaint to us around the time he was told he couldnt reject 
the goods. And he continued to use the car. But he did highlight to SCUK that he was being 
asked to continue to pay for the goods and he requested an alternative car to be provided 
while the dispute was ongoing. This didnt happen. Mr R acknowledges he was driving it to 
keep it ticking over, but his use increased when he lost access to another vehicle. Based on 
the mileage covered, its not clear this is whats shown. I think Mr Rs use has been quite 
consistent. He covered around 4,000 miles per year. Although due to the faults arising from 
the unsatisfactory quality of the car at the point of supply, I think the use has been impaired 
for near enough the whole period, which Ill come on to in more detail later. 
Mr R took the decision to carry on using the car. I can understand SCUKs point that he 
ought to have stopped using it when he decided to reject it, but I cant see that he received 
an instruction not to do so. Mr R has said he had to use the car because his wife uses the 
other family car. He says his work trip is 50 miles. Its easy to see how the miles can quickly 
add up simply with commuting trips.  
I dont think its that uncommon for a consumer to carry on using a car (where its still 
driveable) but after theyve asked to reject it. I dont think Mr R knew he was doing 
something that could prejudice his rejection request. The court cases SCUK has referred to 
are relatively recent, and I dont think Mr R would have been aware of them. He could have 
stopped paying for the car, but this likely would have had a detrimental impact on his credit 
file while he was waiting for things to be resolved. The payments towards this car were 
significant, so I can also understand why Mr R would have been hesitant or perhaps unable 
to pay towards another vehicle while waiting for his complaint to be considered.  
Given Mr R didnt have readily available access to another car; he needed a car for work; 
hed not been told  to stop using this car; he likely was unaware of the judgments; and he 
was paying a lot for the car so was unlikely in a position to pay towards another one, I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to say rejection should not have been considered when 
Mr R continued to use the car after unsuccessfully seeking rejection. However, I dont think 
SCUK should be left in a worse position as a result of Mr R continuing to use the car. So I 
will go on to consider what Mr R should pay for his continued use of the car. 
For completeness, Ive also thought about a couple of other points SCUK mentioned to see if 
they would impact my decision. SCUK has said Mr R effectively abandoned the car when it was in an approved garage for 
repair, implying he breached the agreement by not keeping the car in his possession. I dont 
agree. Mr R chose to deliver the car to an approved garage which carried out repairs. He 
didnt want to return to the supplying dealer because he had concerns about it. But this 
doesnt mean he abandoned the car.
SCUK also highlighted other terms of the agreement that say Mr R should have inspected 
the goods on delivery and if they werent satisfactory, he should have told it of any defects 
promptly. And that if he had any complaints, he should have raised it with SCUK first. Ive set 
out above why the faults may not have been noticed on Mr Rs own inspection before taking 
possession of the car. Im mindful Mr R did raise his complaint about the quality of the car 
promptly. And he did this through SCUK. 
How should SCUK put things right?
Mr R has told us hes now handed back the car. So I dont need to propose ending the 
agreement. However, if applicable, any adverse information should be removed from Mr Rs 
credit file. 
Ive thought about the £22,767.53 deposit that was transferred over to the agreement for car 
3. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. This provision has the effect 
of deeming the supplying dealer to be the agent of SCUK in any antecedent negotiations. So 
SCUK is responsible for the antecedent negotiations the supplying dealer carried out direct 
with Mr R. SCUK is also responsible for any negotiations with Mr R conducted by itself in 
relation to the making of the regulated agreement.
Mr R has explained in September 2019 he was told hed be refunded his deposit along with 
partial payments after the issues he had with car 2. He tells us on the week that was meant 
to happen the supplying dealer, in partnership with SCUK offered him car 3. He said this was 
done on the basis of his payments staying at £725 per month, along with the same mileage 
allowance. Mr R says there was a large discount because his deposit was put towards the 
deal, along with further financial support from SCUK and the manufacturer. He says this is 
what he was told by SCUK and the supplying dealer. Mr R also wanted to highlight there 
would be no way he would have received a discount of around £60,000 without his deposit 
being put towards the deal. 
SCUK has said Mr R cant claim back his deposit because of the arrangement he entered 
into when handing back car 2, and that it formed part of a settlement agreement once Mr R 
entered into the agreement for car 3. But on balance, Im satisfied that under section 56, by 
agreeing to reduce the price of car 3 by including the amount of the deposit under 
agreement 1, the deposit under agreement 1 became part of agreement 2. As I highlighted 
earlier, the price reduction was more than the deposit. But despite the discrepancy in the 
figures, I think Mr Rs account of what was discussed has been consistent and credible. On 
balance, Im satisfied the deposit formed part of the discount applied to agreement 2.  
Therefore, Im satisfied the deposit forms part of the antecedent negotiations for agreement 
2 and is part of agreement 2, despite not being set out in writing in the conditional sale 
agreement. Mr R only had car 1 and 2 for just over a year. I cant see he would have been 
willing to effectively lose a £23,000 deposit off the back of handing back two cars he says 
werent of satisfactory quality  despite the fact he was getting a large discount. Seeing as I 
think Mr R should have been able to reject car 3, the unwinding of agreement 2 as a result of 
rejection would mean that the benefit provided by that deposit is effectively lost. I dont think 
this is fair. Therefore, I think its fair he now gets a full refund of that deposit. Ive thought about whether SCUK should reimburse Mr R anything else. I dont think he 
should receive a full refund of the monthly repayments hes made. The CRA says a 
deduction can be made from the refund to take account of the use the consumer has had of 
the goods in the period since they were delivered. It doesnt set out how to calculate fair 
usage and theres no exact formula for me to use. So Ive thought about what a fair 
deduction would be and have taken into account relevant guidance on what fair usage 
should be, such as the guidance set out in the Consumer Rights Act: Guidance for 
Business published by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills. Ive been 
mindful of the following elements of the guidance which would be relevant to this complaint 
such as that fair usage should reflect the use the consumer has had from the goods. 
Deductions shouldnt be made for the time the goods were being repaired or having faults 
assessed. Considerations can be made for all relevant information when assessing how 
much use the consumer has had and what level of deduction would be appropriate to reflect 
this and relevant information can include, for example, the type of goods, the intended use, 
expected lifespan etc. 
Ive thought about a fair starting point for usage. Along with the conditional sale agreement 
Mr R also entered into a sales agency agreement with SCUK that essentially said he could 
give or sell the car back for a guaranteed price of around £105,000 (providing hed not 
exceeded 8,000 miles per year and hed looked after the car), which is the same as the final 
payment that is required after three years if Mr R wanted to buy the car. So SCUK was 
willing to say it didnt think the car would be worth less than this, and Mr R could walk away 
after three years without owing anything, as hes now done. This would also indicate Mr Rs 
monthly rentals of £725 broadly would have offset the depreciation of the car. 
As a starting point, I think £725 is a reasonable figure to use for a months worth of use of 
the car. But Id say this figure would be fair if the goods conformed to the contract and were 
able to be used as intended. But in this case, for the reasons given above, I dont think thats 
what happened. 
Mr R covered around 11,500 miles. Although he says some of this was covered by the 
various garages when the car was in for repairs. Like Ive pointed out above, weve tried to 
obtain all the job cards but have been unsuccessful. So I cant confirm exactly how many 
months Mr R wasnt able to use the car. Mr R has told us the car has been with various 
garages for around six months over the last couple of years. And he said he was given a 
courtesy car around half the occasions the car was in the garage. Hes been consistent. And 
in the absence of anything to say otherwise, Im minded to accept what Mr R has told us. 
Mr R acquired a prestige car and paid a significant sum towards the agreement. I imagine 
hes been thoroughly disappointed with it and a lot of the enjoyment was taken away. Aside 
from all the repairs, there were aesthetic issues with the misaligned panels, and hes had to 
deal with a number of faults, some of which have been reoccurring, including a major 
distraction i.e., the white noise. So I think its fair to say the use Mr R had of the car was 
significantly impaired. Moreover, when car 3 was in for repairs and Mr R didnt have a 
courtesy car, he clearly had no use. And for the times he had a courtesy car, given it was a 
lower specification, I dont think Mr R had reasonable use of what he was paying for.
Im also mindful that while its clear Mr R has continued to use the car, hes been saying 
throughout hes not used it as much as he would have done, had it not been for the various 
issues. Theres no way to know exactly how much his use was impacted. But I think its fair 
to say the faults with the car have meant Mr R didnt use the car as much as he would have 
done. While I appreciate not everyone takes the car to the mileage limit, Mr R only covered 
around half the mileage limit on the three-year agreement. This is significantly less than what 
he predicted hed use when he acquired the car.  Taking everything into account, including the length of time Mr R was likely without use of 
the car; the impaired use; and the periods he was supplied a courtesy car that was a lower 
specification, I think it fair he effectively receives a part-refund of the monthly payments hes 
paid towards the agreement. Like Ive said above, theres no exact scientific formula for this. 
But I think, in the round, a 50% deduction is a fair. My reasoning for this is that he only 
covered around half the miles that he expected to. On balance, I think Mr R used the car 
less than he otherwise would have done as a result of the faults which Ive found made the 
car of unsatisfactory quality. For the miles he has covered, his use has been impaired. Mr R 
has also said the distracting white noise has been present for the whole time hes had the 
car, as has the misaligned panels. And theres been a number of other faults too, some of 
which have reoccurred.  
Mr R has received £7,500 direct from the manufacturer, I think its only fair this amount is 
deducted from the refund. I say this because the manufacturer has said these payments are 
normally made in recognition of repair delays or where cars have been off the road for a long 
time. On balance, Im satisfied thats what happened here. 
Ive thought about whether a further deduction should be made for the bolts and car cover 
Mr R says was given to him. Its not clear whether this was in relation to compensation for 
the problems he was having. Mr R has said they were a gift. Hes also said these were 
returned with the car when it was handed back. In the circumstances, Im not minded to 
direct SCUK to deduct their value off from the proposed redress. 
Ive also been told Mr R had a cherished number plate on the car, which he had to pay to 
place back on retention. Given the contract ended, and Mr R was always intending to hand 
back the car, and therefore incur this cost, Im not minded to direct that it be deducted from 
the redress. 
However, I think its fair that SCUK reimburse Mr R the cost of the independent report he 
obtained, together with interest. He would not have had to get the report had the car been of 
satisfactory quality. I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome for both parties. 
Mr R accepted the provisional decision, but SCUK didnt agree. In summary, it said:
The remedy wasnt fair or reasonable
The refund of the deposit, 50% refund of instalments paid and conclusion that Mr R could 
rely on the sales agency agreement in order to avoid any further liability in respect of car 3 
cannot be properly sustained as a matter of law nor based on what is fair and reasonable. 
SCUK explains that Mr R would be unjustifiably enriched by the remedy thats been 
proposed. It said its not fair Mr R was able to enjoy the use of car 3 (with a list price of 
£192,170 including VAT) over the course of three years, covering approximately 11,500 
miles, at a total cost to him of less than £13,000. 
SCUK also point to a legal practitioner textbook  Benjamins Sale of Goods (11th ED.) at 
paragraph 14-106, footnote 750 which it notes says:
It would appear that the calculation of any amount to take account of the use the 
consumer has had of the goods should focus on the prevention of the consumers 
unjustified enrichment, and so reflect the benefit enjoyed in respect of the goods, 
though if the goods have suffered from wear and tear in use, this could also be 
reflected in the calculation: see Quelle AG v Bundersverband des 
Versbraucherzentralen und Verbraucherverbande (C-404/06) [2008] E.C.R. I-2685 at 
[39].SCUK says its grossly unjust Ive disregarded the settlement agreements terms and 
conditions which stipulate that car 3 would serve as complete and final settlement without 
further recourse. It says Mr R is obligated to comply with the terms of the settlement 
agreement and that those terms would be undoubtedly upheld in court. SCUK says it and 
Mr R exercised great caution before signing the settlement agreement and SCUK provided 
Mr R with £1,000 to seek independent legal advice before executing the agreement. It says 
the terms of the settlement agreement are clear and definitive and that I should not attempt 
to disregard them. By signing the settlement agreement, which was negotiated when he had 
representation, Mr R waived any claim for payment of sums paid under the prior finance 
agreement with SCUK for car 2. 
Id made errors of law in relation to the availability of the final right to reject
SCUK says there was no proper basis to ignore the statutory provisions which set out what 
needs to happen before Mr R could exercise the final right to reject. And that Id not carried 
out proper analysis of the law applicable to the loss of a right to reject nor of Mr Rs conduct 
which SCUK contends plainly gave rise to the loss of that right, it if existed at all. 
SCUK says it was wrong to put in place a test which required to show it was prejudiced by 
the absence of the opportunity to repair and SCUK says this has no basis in law. SCUK says 
the CRA recognises the trader must be given the first right to repair since the trader will 
suffer the consequences if it does not. SCUK says that the prejudice if it is not given that 
opportunity is clear  it simply cannot comply with the statute and is therefore at risk of 
suffering the potentially severe financial consequences of rejection without the opportunity to 
avoid them. 
SCUK says the suggestion that repair by an alternative firm was not a matter which caused 
prejudice to SCUK is a fundamentally flawed analysis. It said a firm which was not involved 
in the supply of car 3 (or indeed 1 or 2) would have less incentive to make sure the repair 
was carried out effectively and to the required standard (and if necessary to go the extra 
mile). The only correct conclusion is that Mr R was not entitled to exercise the final right to 
reject, as a matter of law, and there is no proper basis on which to depart from the law. 
SCUK says that even if it is correct to depart from the law and find that the final right to reject 
was available to Mr R, Mr R lost his right to reject as a natural and proper consequence of 
his actions. It said Id ignored the facts that Mr R had already rejected cars 1 and 2 so should 
have been aware of his rights and obligations in doing so. And that he was receiving (or had 
received) professional assistance. SCUK says the assumption which should be drawn is that 
Mr R knew what continued use of the car could mean for the purported rejection. 
SCUK says it was not able to offer legal advice to Mr R and that he had his own advisers. 
SCUK says continuing to use car 3 and pay for it suggests Mr R didnt reject it and that 
individuals who genuinely want to reject goods typically cease using them and terminate any 
finance agreements in place. Its unrealistic to suggest Mr R couldnt make alternative 
arrangements for transport considering the car he was purporting to reject cost almost 
£200,000. And that car 3  a supercar  isnt a typical vehicle for commuting and it cannot 
seriously have been acquired with that in mind. SCUK says its fundamental to note Mr R chose to rely on the terms of the agreement to 
return car 3 without making any further payment pursuant to the terms of the Sales Agency 
Agreement. And that Mr R clearly couldnt sell car 3 if he had truly rejected it as hed have no 
interest or legal ability to do so. Its only because Mr R hadnt rejected car 3 that SCUK was 
able to sell it on his behalf. SCUK says that this is the clearest affirmation of the agreement. 
SCUK adds that Mr R did not seek to reserve his rights, he simply returned car 3 in 
accordance with the terms of the agreement. SCUK repeat that Mr R cannot properly be 
treated as a person who was ignorant of his rights. SCUK says it is wholly inconsistent with a 
rejection of car 3, and the failure to address it at all in my provisional decision cannot be 
consistent with a requirement both to consider the relevant law and (if it is thought necessary 
to do so to achieve a fair and reasonable result) to explain why I have chosen to depart from 
it. SCUK does not consider this point can be dismissed as something Mr R was not aware 
of, as it considers to be the way I have treated the decision in the Scots law court judgments 
it sent me. It adds that this is not an appropriate way to approach the law, particularly where 
there is evidence that Mr R received legal advice. 
SCUK says the principle that a right to reject is lost if the contract is affirmed in clear and 
unequivocal terms is trite law. It refers to the comments of HHJ Godsmark in Van Gordon v 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Ltd in which it was noted at paragraph 48 of that 
judgment that For there to be a subsequent affirmation of a contract, that must be 
communicated in clear and unequivocal terms...As a proposition of law this has not been 
disputed before me. Whether there has been such a clear and unequivocal communication 
is a question of fact. SCUK argues on the facts of that case the claimant was found not to 
have affirmed the contract but, unlike Mr R, had declared the vehicle to be off road rather 
than using it to the same extent as he had prior to the purported rejection. SCUK also note 
that in Van Gordon, unlike the position here, there was no clear indication that the claimant 
was relying on the terms of the agreement.
The compensatory sums have been calculated incorrectly 
SCUK says no remedy should be awarded to Mr R. But it also wanted to highlight why it 
thought the remedy was flawed. 
Mr R entered into a contract for car 3 for £120,000 when its list price was £192,170 at the 
time of supply (it says this price included a lengthy list of optional extras). SCUK says the 
difference in price was because Mr R received a substantial discount, and the carrying over 
of the deposit in respect of car 1. 
SCUK said it was wrong to say the monthly payments are broadly offsetting the depreciation 
of the car, as I said in my provisional decision. SCUK says if the difference between the list 
price and the guaranteed future value is taken as a measure of likely depreciation  that 
figure could amount to £87,170 or approximately 120 instalments of £725. SCUK says that 
the 36 instalments of £725 under Mr Rs agreement cannot be said to offset the depreciation 
of the car. SCUK said the agreement was bespoke to enable Mr R to use car 3 for 36 
months at a very beneficial rate and then benefit from a final instalment which was very 
much lower than the true value of the car.
It said a typical market rate to finance a vehicle of this type would be £3,334.35 per month, 
with a final payment of £81,500.00. SCUK has provided me with a sample quote from what it 
describes as a comparable car. SCUK says its unrealistic to conclude Mr R only benefitted 
from the use of car 3 to the extent of 50% of the intended use. Moreover, SCUK says it is informed by the supplying dealer (who is a major manufacturer 
retailer) that a comparable vehicle would have mileage ranging from 6,000 to 9,000 
regardless of the mileage allowance specified in the agreement and that its common for this 
sort of car to only be driving 2,000 or 3,000 miles per year as they are not typically used for 
daily driving. Mr Rs use was therefore within normal range. SCUK suggests Mr R had nearly 
full access and use of car 3 and was also provided equivalent courtesy cars while repairs 
were carried out thereby allowing him uninterrupted use of a supercar during the operation of 
the finance agreement. SCUK says the fact the agreement permitted a higher usage than 
this is not reflective of the typical use of such vehicles and the fact Mr Rs usage was broadly 
uniform across the period he retained car 3 also suggests he used it as much as he intended 
to. SCUK concludes a 50% deduction is manifestly excessive.  
SCUK says any award in favour of Mr R would represent an unjust enrichment. In order to 
avoid an unjustified windfall to Mr R there should be no award of the deposit because to do 
so would include double counting. SCUK goes on to say the inclusion of the deposit (and the 
discount) produced an artificially low monthly instalment which I selected as a benchmark for 
the cost of use. It suggests the deposit should therefore either be left out of the calculation 
entirely, or a more realistic benchmark for cost of use (which SCUK considers would be 
based on what they have set out above) should be selected.
As well as having received a copy of my provisional decision, Mr R has also been provided 
with a copy of SCUKs submissions in response that decision. Mr Rs comments are 
summarised as follows:
The car was dangerous, and he only had use of it when he had no other access to a 
vehicle. 
The price of the car SCUK has highlighted isnt realistic. Repayments towards the 
previous car were almost identical, and he thinks the supplier subsidises deals for 
almost all cars. 
He had no benefit of the car. 
SCUKs legal team have aggressively emailed him for three years. 
The inspection report Mr R arranged proved the car was faulty at point of delivery. 
SCUK refused to give him a hire car, so he was forced to drive car 3 when it was his 
only daily car. 
Mr R settled car 2 in goodwill that car 3 would be perfect, and it wasnt. He shouldnt 
lose the deposit. If SCUK was allowed to keep the deposit SCUK could settle every 
faulty car with another effectively stealing the deposit. 
Hes badly out of pocket.
SCUK is using other finance agreements that are irrelevant against him. 
He could never have known car 3 would have been unsafe to drive so it makes 
SCUKs arguments invalid because it didnt supply a car that was fit for purpose. 
The independent report proves this. 
Saying 11,000 miles being normal use isnt fair when he signed an agreement for 
24,000. He also says the supplier sells the model as a car for daily use. And the 
lack of miles covered is as a result of the problems. 
He had no enjoyment of use with the white noise and electrical faults. 
Hes carried out data gathering on offers from the supplier to customers in similar 
situations and hes found nearly 30 customers with ongoing faults and disputes. Following on from this I wrote out to the parties to say I proposed a change to how the 
deposit should be dealt with in the proposed redress. Id concluded in my provisional 
decision that a 50% deduction should be made to the monthly payments in recognition of the 
issues Mr R had with the car. But I didnt set out that the deposit should be reduced as well. I 
also set out provisions on tax deduction from the interest award.
Regarding the deposit, I said:
If I were to reach the conclusions in the Final Decision mentioned above, I would consider it 
fair and reasonable to deduct 50% from the deposit to account for use because the deposit 
is, in effect, an up-front payment towards the sum owed under the agreement. Moreover, Im 
conscious that Mr R has always said that he intended to hand back the car at the end of the 
term and I consider his evidence to be persuasive. So, I consider that if things ran without 
issue, Mr R would more likely than not have returned the car at end of the agreement.  
Although this complaint concerns a conditional sale agreement, this agreement appears to 
have been treated by the parties as more akin to a hire agreement, in that Mr R made 
monthly payments under agreement 2 but did not intend to own the car at the end of 
agreement 2. Consequently, if in my Final Decision I were to uphold the complaint and 
conclude that the deposit should be considered and form part of the redress along with the 
50% reduction in the monthly payments, I would also consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable to treat the deposit as just another payment towards agreement 2 and therefore 
to make a 50% deduction from the deposit to account for use of the car.
Mr R didnt agree with the proposal and thought the deposit should be treated differently. He 
said if the car had been perfect, hed likely have stayed with the brand and his deposit would 
have rolled over into the next car. He also says that if the car had maintained value, it would 
have been returned. He reiterates the car was faulty so hes lost the options he otherwise 
would have had, and he shouldnt be penalised for this. 
SCUK responded to say it remained of the view that the approach was fundamentally wrong 
because it doesnt reflect the fact Mr R benefitted from a settlement agreement reached on 
car 2 so that the true cost of car 3, which is the subject of the complaint, is not accurately 
reflected in the finance agreement. It said the calculation is also predicated on a loss of use 
of 50%, which for the reasons already given, cant be justly maintained. It reiterated some of 
the arguments made in its response to the provisional decision. It didnt make any further 
comments on the provisions of tax. 
I also thought it was important to give some additional reasons why I didnt think the 
settlement agreement should prevent a complaint about the transferred deposit being made. 
SCUK says I am disregarding the terms of the settlement agreement by proposing that it 
refund the deposit carried over from agreement 1 to agreement 2. SCUK says both parties 
took great care in the preparation of the settlement agreement and its terms should be 
complied with. I wrote to the parties and said:
As I set out in my provisional decision, Mr R had said that he was offered a large discount 
because his deposit was put towards the deal, and he says he was told this by SCUK and 
the supplying dealer. Mr R also noted that there was no way he would have received a 
discount of £60,000 without his deposit being put towards the deal. I am satisfied, as I was in 
the provisional decision, that Mr R has been consistent and credible in his recollections on 
this point. I also note that SCUK, in the submissions it made in response to the provisional 
decision, does not appear to dispute that the deposit from agreement 1 was carried over to 
agreement 2. In its response to my provisional decision SCUK has said: ...Car 3 had a list price of £192,170 at the time of the supply, a price which included a 
lengthy list of optional extras. He [Mr R] received an allowance against that price of £72,170 
(again, inclusive of VAT) leaving a cash price of £120,000. This was manifestly less than Car 
3 was worth, reflecting both the discount which was applied to it, and the carrying over of the 
deposit paid by the Customer in respect of Car 1 (which was in turn applied to Car 2 and 
then, in accordance with the terms of the settlement agreement, applied against Car 3) (my 
underlining)
It therefore appears that SCUK is in agreement that the deposit from agreement 1 was 
carried over to agreement 2 although it says this was done in accordance with the terms of 
the settlement agreement. In further correspondence from SCUK I note that it has said that 
the deposit was waived as part of the settlement agreement. Having considered all of this, I 
do not agree with SCUKs suggestion that the deposit was carried over in accordance with 
the terms of the settlement agreement., In particular, I do not consider that the settlement 
agreement acted to waive Mr Rs rights to bring a complaint about the deposit carried over 
from agreement 1 to agreement 2. Having reviewed the settlement agreement I cannot see 
that it contains any express term clearly stating that Mr Rs rights in relation to the deposit or 
agreement 2 would be modified. As such, I am satisfied that it is sufficient to conclude, on 
balance, that it is more likely than not that the deposit from agreement 1 was transferred to 
agreement 2 without being subject to any waiver of rights to bring a complaint about that 
deposit. 
When reaching my decision, I have had regard to the to the main principles of contractual 
interpretation. In summary, these main principles are (i) Having loyalty to the text and 
considering the text of the provision and giving it appropriate weight; (ii) taking a whole of 
contract approach and considering the remainder of the contract in which the provision 
appears; (iii) considering the context such as the factual, legal and regulatory background to 
the contract; (iv) giving appropriate weight to business common sense or the commercial 
purpose of the contract; and (v) avoiding giving literal effect to the words of the contract 
where that would lead to very unreasonable results. I am mindful that contractual 
interpretation is an objective test and the viewpoint of a reasonable person is adopted. In a 
written contract, what the parties have written, rather than what they intended to write, 
constitutes the agreement.  
The settlement agreement discharge provisions, including the waiver clause at clause 3.1 of 
the settlement agreement and the definition of dispute, make no reference to the deposit. 
The definition of dispute makes no reference to agreement 2 or car 3. This accords with the 
context of the settlement agreement as a whole, which provides that a new agreement 
(agreement 2) will be entered into between the parties for car 3. Agreement 2, which is 
annexed to the settlement agreement, is governed by its own new set of contractual terms, 
which make no reference to the settlement agreement and contains entirety of contract 
provisions. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 says SCUK is responsible for the 
antecedent negotiations of the supplying dealership and for the antecedent negotiations it 
carried out itself. The antecedent negotiations resulted in an agreement to reduce the price 
of car 3 by including the deposit from the previous agreement. This resulted in the deposit 
becoming part of agreement 2. I am also of the view that my interpretation that the discharge 
provisions do not waive Mr Rs rights to bring a complaint in relation to agreement 2 or car 3 
is not contrary to business common sense. Finding that the settlement agreement does not 
waive Mr Rs rights to bring a complaint about the deposit on agreement 2 does not create 
an absurd outcome. In addition to the above, I would also not consider it fair and reasonable for Mr R to be 
prevented from raising a complaint concerning the transferred deposit when there is no clear 
and explicit reference in the settlement agreement stating that Mr R is prevented from doing 
so. 
Mr R didnt have anything to add to the side letter. SCUK responded to say, in summary:
It remains of the view the deposit should be excluded from any consideration, as 
otherwise Mr R will receive a windfall benefit. 
Considering the deposit will result in a situation where Mr R would continue to benefit 
from the terms of the finance agreement and settlement agreement negotiated in his 
favour, but hed be allowed to avoid the waivers.
The settlement agreement cannot be dissected in this way. Both parties had legal 
representation and considerable time was taken in negotiation. 
Mr R received a huge benefit when acquiring car 3. Those terms were only made 
available because of the express warranties of the settlement agreement. 
There are a number of the recitals in the settlement agreement which deal expressly 
with the parties intentions when entering into the settlement agreement and finance 
agreement.
On any objective reading the deposit formed part of all the terms of the 
Conditional Sale Agreement and any other matters relating to the Conditional Sale 
Agreement.
It referred to the waiver at 3.1 of the settlement agreements and that there is no 
other reasonable analysis that could conclude that Mr R was not waiving his right to 
claim the deposit on Car 2 (or indeed to maintain any claim against SCUK in respect 
of Car 2 or the previous finance terms).
The terms should be given their everyday meaning. 
The text of the settlement agreement is very clear and sets out Mr R waived his 
rights in relation to or arising from any part of the dispute. The parties intentions 
were made expressly clear.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A large number of points have been made by both parties. I want to thank the parties for 
their responses. If I dont deal with a matter expressly in the final decision it doesnt mean 
Ive not considered it. Im required to determine what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint and Ill directly address the points I need to in order to reach 
a fair and reasonable outcome. 
I will address the comments made by both parties below. But before I do that, I wanted to 
address some typographical errors in the provisional decision. I do not consider that these 
amendments materially change the findings in my provisional decision, and I only clarify 
these typos here for the sake of completeness. Underlined wording indicates added text and 
crossed through wording indicates deleted text:
A sentence in the extract from the provisional decision above at page 10 should read 
The following repair also took place within the first six months of acquisition
A sentence in the extract from the provisional decision above at page 14 should be read without subsection (4) being underlined when setting out what section 22(3) 
says.
A sentence in the extract from the provisional decision above at page 16, final 
paragraph should read Given the garage(s) SCUK was proposing to use and the 
garages Mr R went to were approved garages on balance, I think they would have 
taken largely the same steps, in carrying out repairs.
A sentence in the extract from the provisional decision above at page 21, first 
paragraph should read But I think, in the round, a 50% deduction is a fair.
On page 17 paragraph 3 I explained what I understood were the options SCUK had 
presented to Mr R but note I didnt specify all the options it gave him. For the sake of 
completeness, I also wanted to confirm that one of the options was to take the car to another 
dealer with the SCUK nominated expert present. But this doesnt materially alter the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
I also wanted to set out that Id not included an exception when setting out what DISP 2.8.2R 
says but its not relevant to the facts of this case and makes no difference to my findings on 
jurisdiction. 
The remedy wasnt fair or reasonable
SCUK said its not fair and reasonable for Mr R to cover 11,500 miles at a cost of less than 
£13,000. With the amended redress proposed the usage cost will now be closer to £25,000 
(around £700 per month) for the three years Mr R had the car. As Ive already set out, I think 
Mr Rs use was impaired for near enough the whole time he was in the agreement. I dont 
think he used the car as much as he would have done had there not been any issues with it. 
Ill go on to explain a bit more about why I think thats fair in the section below on 
compensatory sums. 
I thank SCUK for its response to my side letter concerning the settlement agreement. SCUK 
is of the view the deposit should be excluded and that Mr R would unfairly benefit if its 
considered. SCUK has said the deposit formed part of the definition of the dispute due to 
the wording all the terms of the Conditional Sale Agreement and any other matters 
relating to the Conditional Sale Agreement. The conditional sale agreement referred to here 
is agreement 1. I have considered what SCUK has said but I dont interpret that this wording 
would extend to the deposit. The deposit forms part of agreement 2 which was designed to 
be and is a separate agreement. It is governed by its own set of contractual terms which 
have no reference to the settlement agreement and contains an entirety of contract 
provision. The wording that SCUK highlighted doesnt extend to the contents of agreement 
2, including the deposit.
Ive also set out that section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 deems SCUK responsible 
for antecedent negotiations carried out by itself and the supplying dealer. And the carrying 
over of the deposit formed part of those negotiations for agreement 2. 
SCUK has highlighted, in summary, that agreement 2 was used to settle the dispute with no 
further lability between Mr R and SCUK and to discharge and waiver all claims or complaints 
between the parties involving any aspect of the dispute. SCUK also highlighted both parties 
had legal representation. But this doesnt change my interpretation. The settlement 
agreement may settle liability regarding agreement 1 but the deposit formed part of 
agreement 2. Im not satisfied the deposit falls within the definition of the dispute. 
Therefore, I dont think Mr R is prevented by the settlement agreement from bringing a 
complaint about agreement 2  including the deposit for it. As I dont consider the definition of dispute applies to the deposit or agreement 2, I dont 
think the waiver provision at 3.1 is relevant. Even applying the everyday meaning makes no 
difference to the interpretation Ive reached. 
Moreover, I additionally remain of the view it would not be fair and reasonable to prevent 
Mr R from raising a complaint concerning the transferred deposit when there is no clear and 
explicit reference in the settlement agreement stating that Mr R is prevented from doing so. 
Overall, I consider that it is not fair that Mr R should lose the benefit afforded by the deposit 
being carried over from agreement 1 to agreement 2 as a result of the rejection of car 3.
I remain of the view the deposit should be treated the same as the monthly payments, and a 
50% deduction should be made to the refund of the deposit. I dont think this creates an 
unfair windfall benefit for Mr R. Ill expand on this, and SCUKs comment about the 
significant discount, later in the decision. I also appreciate Mr R says if hed stayed with the 
brand, he mightve had his deposit transferred over to a new car or that he may have had it 
returned. But Ive not seen any evidence thats what would likely have happened. Mr R has 
been consistent and convincing that he intended to return the car at the end of the 
agreement.  
Id made errors of law in relation to the availability of the final right to reject
Ive also thought about what SCUK said with regards to my provisional decision to depart 
from the law and conclude that Mr R should have been able to reject the goods. SCUK has 
said that there was no proper basis for me to ignore the statutory provisions which set out 
the criteria which must be satisfied before a customer can exercise the final right to reject. 
To be clear, I have not ignored the relevant law. As I pointed out, DISP 3.6.4R demonstrates 
that I need to take the law into account when determining what is fair and reasonable, but it 
is not the only consideration I am required to take into account. Im able to depart from the 
law where I consider its fair and reasonable to do so. 
SCUK says that in departing from the law I have put in place an arbitrary test which required 
SCUK to convince me that it was prejudiced by the absence of an opportunity to repair car 3 
itself or at its direction. SCUK says the requirement for proof of prejudice is something which 
I have created, and which has no basis in law. SCUK also says the CRA recognises the 
trader itself must be given the opportunity to put the problem right, since it is the trader that 
will suffer the consequences if not. As noted in my provisional decision, I am required to 
determine complaints by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. Im not saying SCUK should put in place a different test when 
deciding whether a customer should be allowed to reject goods. All I am saying is that Ive 
found in the very particular circumstances of Mr Rs case, it would have been fair and 
reasonable to allow him to reject the car. I say this because Ive found SCUK was broadly in 
the same position it would have been in had it arranged for the inspection and repairs to be 
carried out itself. Each case is considered on its own merits. 
At this point I should explain that I noted in my provisional decision that: So overall, while I 
can understand the position SCUK took, had Mr R gone through the supplying dealer or 
another dealer with SCUKs nominated expert present as opposed to the other manufacturer 
approved garage then, on balance I think wed have broadly ended up in the same position. 
So, I dont consider SCUK was prejudiced by not being given an initial opportunity to repair. 
As such, I dont think it was fair and reasonable in the circumstances to insist on starting 
another inspection with the supplying dealer or by arranging a jointly instructed independent 
inspection. To clarify, I should add for completeness, for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, that I also do not consider it fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
for SCUK to have insisted on another inspection upon the terms SCUK proposed.     SCUK wanted to highlight its letter of 14 November 2022. It said Id only considered two of 
its points that set out Mr R lost his right to reject because he:
1) Didnt give it the opportunity to inspect/repair.
2) Exercised his rights under the sales agency agreement.
3) Maintained payments.
4) Kept the car.
5) Repaired the car.
6) Used the car.
SCUK says it considers my finding that repair by an alternative firm was not a matter which 
caused prejudice to SCUK to be a fundamentally flawed analysis. It says a third-party firm 
which had no involvement in the supply of car 3 would have less incentive to make sure a 
repair was carried out effectively (and if necessary, go the extra mile) than SCUK and/or the 
supplying dealer. Mr R didnt take the car to a third-party garage that was underprepared for 
dealing with this specialist sort of model. He took it to a manufacturer approved garage, with 
specially trained technicians and equipment. 
I also thought SCUK could have been clearer when presenting Mr R with options to resolve 
things. While I appreciate Mr R was represented when SCUK was discussing those options 
with him (before he sought to reject the car), the options that were given to him kept 
changing. And the final two options given to Mr R could have been made clearer. SCUK said 
Mr R could either take the car back to the supplying dealer for inspection and repair if 
warranted, or he could take the car to another manufacturer dealer to have an inspection 
carried out there. SCUK didnt explicitly mention having a nominated expert present in that 
final email although I note that it had been mentioned in previous emails. Given all the 
options that had been discussed, I think it should have been clearer.   
Im not convinced by SCUKs argument that the supplying dealer would have resolved 
everything by going the extra mile. On balance, theres no evidence to suggest the supplying 
dealer would have done anything differently. As Ive said above, all manufacturer approved 
garages would have similar equipment and procedures, use approved parts, and have 
similar expertise. Mr R took the car to different approved garages various times and the 
problems werent all resolved. Ultimately, Ive set out my reasoning in the provisional 
decision that I think the garage SCUK was going to use would have taken largely the same 
steps in carrying out repairs as the garage Mr R chose. And I think it would have been the 
same whether or not an independent representative was present as well. As I found it more 
likely than not problems would still have arisen, regardless of who inspected or repaired the 
car initially, I think SCUK ought to have allowed Mr R to reject the car when he sought to do 
so in April 2020. 
I appreciate SCUK is saying Mr R lost his right to reject by continuing to use the car. Ive 
provided a summary of the case law SCUK relied on in my provisional decision however, I 
wanted to take this opportunity to set out in further detail what the Sheriff Appeal Court 
found. SCUK provided a judgment from the Sheriff Appeal Court refusing the appeal against 
a decision from Kilmarnock Sheriff Court where summary decree was granted in a matter 
concerning the attempted rejection of a motor vehicle under the CRA. In the case, the court 
held that where the consumer had expressed their rejection of the motor vehicle under the 
CRA, but they continued to make the contractual monthly payments, tax, insure and drive 
the vehicle etc, they were unable to rely on rejection under common law, and nothing in the 
CRA displaced the common law on this point. SCUK said Mr R shouldnt be able to reject 
the car because he continued to drive it and kept up his repayments after seeking to reject it. While I noted the position on the law, in Mr Rs case, I considered it would be fair and 
reasonable to depart from the law. Ive explained in my provisional decision why I think he 
continued paying towards the agreement and using the car. Moreover, on a fair and 
reasonable basis, I dont think continuing to pay for the car should have prevented Mr R from 
being able to reject it. If hed stopped paying towards the agreement, it would have adversely 
impacted his credit file, which could have led to other issues. 
I also take on board that Mr R had representation early on. But I cant see he had 
representation after he formally sought rejection of the car in April 2020. Mr R has said he 
wasnt aware of the Scots law cases that SCUK has referred to. I appreciate SCUKs point 
that this is not an appropriate way to approach the law. However, when determining what is 
fair and reasonable, I consider it is important to take into account that Mr R is not legally 
trained, and hes said he wasnt aware of the judgments. Moreover, they are both dated after 
Mr R ceased to have representation. In any event, this is only one of several reasons I 
consider it would be appropriate to depart from the law.
I think its relevant Mr R did try to reject the goods but was declined by SCUK. This meant 
the parties were effectively at a stalemate. SCUK didnt provide an alternative car while the 
dispute was ongoing. Although on occasions Mr R was given a lower specification courtesy 
car by the garages while repairs were being carried out. 
Ive already set out my findings in my provisional decision regarding why Mr R carried on 
using the car, and why he had repairs carried out. Perhaps it was unusual that Mr R decided 
to use a supercar to commute. But if thats what Mr R wanted the car for, I dont see why he 
couldnt have had that in mind when he acquired it. 
SCUK has said its unrealistic that Mr R couldnt find alternative transport considering the 
amount he could afford to spend on a supercar. Making payments of £725 per month is 
significant. And I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Mr R to have incurred the 
cost of alternative transport when I think SCUK should have allowed him to reject the car in 
April 2020. Mr R has said he had to repay agreement 2; he had a large mortgage 
repayment; costs associated with having two children; and as the sole earner in the 
household, he couldnt afford another car. He said he had some pool use of a company truck 
but only when it wasnt being used for business. And the other family vehicle was only 
available when his wife wasnt using it. I think his testimony helps explain some of the 
reasons why he continued to use car 3.  
SCUK has said by relying on the terms of the sales agency agreement it shows Mr R cant 
reject the goods. SCUK also highlights Mr R didnt seek to reserve his rights and that by 
entering into the sales agency agreement hes affirmed the contract. I dont think Mr R 
should be prevented from being able to reject the goods as a result of the way he handed 
the car back. Even if thats wrong in law, I think it would be fair and reasonable to depart 
from the law for the following reasons. Mr R decided to hand the car back at the end of the term because he didnt want it anymore. 
Hed asked to reject it a long time before this. Its not fair to hold Mr R responsible for the 
delays in getting an answer to his complaint. I think he was simply trying to give the car back 
in the most straight-forward manner at the earliest opportunity hed been given. Entering the 
sales agency agreement was the means by which he was able to do that. The other option 
would have been to make a final balloon payment. By handing the car back he acted in a 
way consistent with seeking to reject it. This helped mitigate his loss and I dont consider this 
to be a reason to say rejection should not be considered. With regards to not reserving his 
rights, Mr R isnt legally trained, and by the point he handed the car back, he wasnt 
represented. He just wanted to return the car, as he had done for a long time. I dont think he 
should be penalised for not seeking to reserve his rights. 
Therefore, having considered everything SCUK has said, including the six points referred to 
above, Im still of the view that in the particular circumstances of Mr Rs complaint, it would 
have been fair and reasonable to allow Mr R to reject car 3. 
The compensatory sums have been calculated incorrectly 
Finally, I take on board SCUKs comments that Mr R received a significant discount, so he 
was paying less for this car than a typical customer would have. And Ive also thought about 
the fact the deposit was part of the discount, and SCUK thinks Mr R is benefitting twice from 
the redress. 
Mr R says suggesting £3,300 per month for car 3 is not reflective of what happens  he says 
through his own research hes found the supplier regularly subsidises car deals. This seems 
to be backed up by the fact Mr R tells us he was paying £725 per month for cars 1 and 2 as 
well. SCUK has said the 36 instalments of £725 under Mr Rs agreement cannot be said to 
offset the depreciation of the car. SCUK says it would be more appropriate to look at the 
difference between the list price and the guaranteed future value as a more accurate 
measure of depreciation. 
Calculating fair usage isnt an exact science as Ive already mentioned. I appreciate SCUK 
tells us Mr R benefitted from lower payments at a preferential interest rate. But what SCUK 
hasnt acknowledged is that Mr Rs use of the car has been impaired for near enough the 
whole duration of the agreement. While hes been able to use the car, its not the same as 
being able to use it without issue. And Mr R explained the courtesy cars provided by the 
garages were not comparable supercars. Hes given us a list of models he was provided and 
from what I can see none can be considered equivalent as SCUK has asserted. 
Ultimately, the deal was for Mr R to be able to use car 3  that should have been of 
satisfactory quality  for three years at £725 per month (after his deposit had been 
transferred over). Ive found car 3 wasnt of satisfactory quality. I dont think its fair Mr R 
should have to pay the full deposit and £725 a month when the car was not of satisfactory 
quality. And while the payments dont cover the depreciation between the list price and the 
guaranteed future value  the £725 a month does offset the depreciation between the 
guaranteed future value and the price SCUK supplied the car to Mr R for after taking into 
account the deposit carried over from agreement 1 and the further additional discount 
applied. In any event, while SCUK said Mr R had average use of the car, and that its common for 
supercars to only cover 2,000 to 3,000 miles per year I still dont think he used it as much as 
he would have done had it not been for the issues. I can see from the settlement agreement 
negotiations that Mr R asked for a 10,000 annual mileage limit. The fact he only covered 
around half of the lower 8,000 mile per year limit he was given I think is also indicative of the 
impairment. As Ive explained above, Mr R has also pointed out that the car 3 model is sold 
as a car for daily use. Im not aware theres anything in the sales material for this model to 
suggest Mr R couldnt use it in this way.  
As Ive already mentioned, taking into account the number of issues; the type of issues; the 
time without use of the car; the time with a courtesy car that wasnt comparable; the mileage 
covered; and the overall problems hes faced, I find a 50% reduction in the monthly 
repayments (and deposit) to be broadly fair. I dont find this needs to be amended because 
he received such a large discount. Regardless of the discount or the recommended retail 
price, the car was supplied at £725 per month and the cost of the use of the car is what was 
set out in the agreement. Had things gone to plan, and the car was of satisfactory quality 
SCUK was prepared for Mr R to use car 3 for £725 per month  along with transferring his 
deposit over. However, the car was not of satisfactory quality and therefore I find it fair that 
the usage he should be required to pay is in the form of a reduced monthly payment and 
deposit. I find it fair and reasonable that the monthly payments of £725 (and deposit) is the 
cost for the use of the car for 3 years. But that both should be reduced by 50% to recognise 
all the problems with car 3.  
SCUK has indicated as Mr Rs use of the car was relatively uniform that it shows he used it 
as much as he wanted. But I have to bear in mind there were problems with the car starting 
shortly after the point of delivery, which lasted throughout. I think its more likely than not the 
lower mileage covered, compared to the expected mileage, was as a result of the problems 
with the car. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
trading as McLaren Financial Services to:
1. If relevant, remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Rs 
credit file. 
2. Reimburse Mr R £2,500 for the cost of the independent report carried out on 
27 August 2020*. 
3. Refund Mr R 50% of the deposit  £11,383.77.
4. Refund Mr R 50% of the rentals hes paid, less £7,500**. 
*Interest should be added to the amount in point 2, calculated at a rate of 8% per year 
simple, from the date payment was made to the date of settlement.
**For point 4, interest should be added to payments made from May 2020 (the month after 
Mr R sought to reject the goods), calculated at a rate of 8% per year simple, from the date 
each payment was made to the date of settlement.
If SCUK considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr R how much tax its taken off. It should also give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. For completeness sake, I dont think Mr R should be responsible for any loss in resale value 
that arose/arises after returning the car to SCUK. Should he be due any payment as a result 
of the sale this can be deducted from the above amounts. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman