DRN-3750490
The complaint
Ms H complained about her car insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). She 
said it didnt make reasonable adjustments for her on account of her disability and had 
promised to change solicitors for her (in respect of a claim) but didnt do so.
What happened
Ms H told RSA that she doesnt use emails, due to her disability. RSA took her email 
address off of its system  but before it did so it sent her a complaint response letter by 
email. Ms H was unhappy about this and complained.
Ms H told RSA she was also unhappy about the solicitors dealing with her claim that arose 
from an accident shed had. She told RSAS she had asked it to change the solicitor and it 
had agreed but this didnt happen. RSA said it wouldnt agree to that.
Our Investigator felt that as RSA had amended its system, it had acted fairly in response to 
Ms Hs request. And he felt that RSA wasnt required, under the policy, to offer a change of 
solicitor. So he didnt think RSA had done anything wrong. Ms H remained unhappy and her 
complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
I felt RSA hadnt acted quickly enough to make adjustments for Ms H. So I felt it should pay 
her £200 compensation. My provisional findings were:
I see RSA has confirmed it removed Ms Hs email from its system. So, in that respect it has 
made an adjustment for Ms H in respect of her needs as stated to it. 
However, a member of RSAs complaint team was told of Ms Hs need roughly a day and a 
half before it sent its complaint response letter to her by email. So, I dont think it acted 
quickly enough to make the adjustment or took enough care to make sure this important 
letter was sent to Ms H in line with her needs. I can see that was distressing for Ms H. I think 
RSA should pay her £200 in compensation for the upset caused.
I appreciate that Ms H was frustrated with the solicitors that were handling her claim. But 
RSA cant reasonably answer her concerns in that respect and I know it has referred her to 
the legal ombudsman. Having reviewed the policy I can see that RSA will sometimes offer 
an alternative solicitor  but this is where cases are progressing to court. As I understand it 
Ms Hs claim was settled without progressing to court. RSA was unable to find any call note 
or recording in which it may have imparted detail to Ms H about it agreeing to change her 
legal representation. I understand Ms H thinks RSA misled her in this respect but I havent 
seen anything that makes me think that is the case. Given the policy does give the 
policyholder options as matters progress, I think its just as likely that a natural 
misunderstanding occurred, as RSA failing Ms H by knowingly or negligently misleading 
her.
Neither RSA nor Ms H objected to my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party objected to my provisional findings, Ive no need to change or move away 
from them. They are now the findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require RSA to pay Ms H £200 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman