DRN-3710117
The complaint
Mr M complains that Soteria Insurance Limited trading as Co-Op Insurance have unfairly 
declined his claim for storm damage to his property.  
What happened
Mr M had a buildings insurance policy with Soteria. 
On 29 December 2020 Mr M made a claim for storm damage. He said that on the night of 26 
December he noticed the bedroom walls were dripping with water. He called out the fire 
brigade but they couldnt find the cause, and so he considered the leak must have been due 
to the storm that had taken place that night.  
Soteria sent out a surveyor to look at Mr Ms property and assess the damage. Following 
that visit, Soteria declined the claim for storm damage saying that they would cover the 
internal damage to the bedroom and downstairs back room, but they wouldnt cover the roof 
repairs because they dont accept that storm conditions were present, and that the damage 
to the roof which is causing the leak is due to a lack of maintenance rather than any storm.  
Mr M says that the leak is coming from behind the chimney and he doesnt think Soteria can 
make that decision without going up to look at the damage, and so he brought his complaint 
to us.   
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ms complaint and she thought that Soteria had 
acted fairly in offering to pay for the internal damage but declining to pay for the external 
damage.   
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I have considered whether Soteria have decided the claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and come to a fair and reasonable decision. 
Having done so, I havent upheld Mr Ms complaint, and I will explain why.  
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider:
1. Were storm conditions present on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened
2. Is the damage consistent with damage caused by a storm? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer is yes to all three questions, then a claim will usually succeed.  
So, Ive firstly looked at whether storm conditions were present. Mr Ms policy booklet 
defines storm as:
a)  Wind speeds with gusts of at least 55 miles per hour or
b) Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 15mm per hour or
c) Snow to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 hours, or
d) Hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. 
Soteria have provided weather reports for around the time of the incident which show that 
there were wind speeds of up to 51mph in the area which is insufficient to meet the criteria 
for a storm. 
I have also checked the weather reports for the evening of 26 December and the early hours 
of 27 December. I can see that there were wind gusts of up to 51mph in the early hours of 
Sunday morning accompanied by some rain. 
Whilst I appreciate that these are strong winds, the policy is clear that it considers 55mph to 
be the minimum wind speed for storm winds, and so I am satisfied that Soterias decision 
that storm conditions arent met is in line with the terms of the policy. 
Although I think Soteria have fairly decided that the storm condition isnt met, I have also 
gone on to consider whether there is evidence of damage consistent with the kind of 
damage caused by a storm, as this was also part of Soterias reasons for declining the claim. 
Soterias surveyors have provided a report that was prepared in January 2021 following their  
visit to Mr Ms property. The report shows photographs of the roof in the area above where 
the leak occurred. They have concluded that there isnt any evidence of damage to the roof 
which would be consistent with a storm, but there is a build-up of heavy moss which would 
retain water and cause blockage to the drainpipes. Having reviewed this evidence, I think 
that their conclusion that this is the cause of the water ingress is fair on the evidence 
provided. I cant see any obvious evidence of damage, particularly around the area of the 
chimney which is where Mr M says the damage has occurred. 
I note that Soteria have agreed that their surveyor would review any report provided by an 
independent roofer which evidences the cause of the damage, and I think this is fair. 
However,  Mr M hasnt been able to provide this so far.   
I can understand that Mr M is upset that there has been damage caused by rainwater 
seeping into the inside of his house, and he understandably wants to get this repaired. 
However, in view of the evidence above, Im satisfied that whilst Soteria are right to agree to 
pay for the interior repairs arising from the water ingress, their decision not to cover the 
cause of the water ingress is fair. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint, and Soteria Insurance Limited trading as 
Co-Op Insurance need not do anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman