DRN-4059190
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage application Mr L made to Coventry Building Society. It 
was eventually turned down for policy reasons, but Mr L believes it should have been 
rejected much sooner than it was. He says the delay left him having to apply elsewhere for a 
mortgage that is more expensive, because interest rates went up in the interim. Coventry 
has admitted the delay and offered redress, but Mr L says its not enough as it doesnt cover 
his higher future mortgage costs.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr L and Coventry Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with all 
parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr L being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of what led to the complaint, 
rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
In the spring of 2022, Mr L found a property he wanted to buy, and applied to Coventry for a 
mortgage, via his broker. After several months, Coventry rejected the application saying the 
property didnt meet its criteria on acceptable security. Mr L complained that the issue that 
made the property unacceptable should have been apparent very early on. Coventry 
accepted it took longer than it should to tell Mr L it wouldnt lend on the property, and paid 
redress of just over £1,900. 
When the case came to us, our investigator asked Coventry to increase its redress offer by 
£500, because it had understated Mr Ls abortive conveyancing costs. Coventry agreed to 
do this, and the investigator told Mr L that with that enhancement in place, he considered 
Coventry had made a fair offer to resolve the complaint. Mr L disagreed and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
This is not a complaint where I have to decide fault; Coventry had admitted liability and 
offered redress to put things right. What remains in dispute, and what I have to decide, is 
whether Coventrys offer is fair, or if it needs to do more.
Coventry has offered £800 compensation; its also agreed to reimburse Mr L his abortive 
conveyancing costs. For the latter, Coventry initially offered the outstanding amount on the 
solicitors invoice of just over £1,100, but overlooked the £500 Mr L had already paid on 
account. Its now put that right, so the current offer from Coventry now covers Mr Ls 
conveyancing costs in full. In all the circumstances, I find that to be a fair settlement as far as 
it goes. 
The sticking point is over Mr Ls claim for reimbursement of future losses from having to take 
a mortgage on a higher interest rate than Coventry was offering when he first applied; thats 
consequence of the general rise in interest rates. Coventry addressed this by saying that if 
Mr L found a new property to buy that fell within its acceptable security criteria, it would lend 
to him at the same interest rate he would have been eligible for when he first applied. Our 
investigator thought that was fair, but Mr L doesnt. 
He says the problem is that Coventrys acceptable property criteria are so restrictive as to 
have made it impossible for him to find a property in the area he wanted to live in unless he 
used a different lender. Thatd what he eventually did after Coventry said it would only lend 
75% loan to value on the new property he found. 
In Mr Ls view, Coventry should agree to reimburse him the difference in interest (for the 
duration of the initial interest rate product) between the mortgage he would have taken with 
Coventry in 2022 and the mortgage he eventually took with a different lender whose 
acceptable property criteria were less restrictive.
Ive thought very hard about that, and appreciate why Mr L thinks he should not have been 
fettered on his choice of home in order to receive redress from Coventry. Equally, however, 
I dont think its reasonable for Coventry to have underwritten the differential cost to Mr L of 
borrowing elsewhere to buy a property on which it would not lend its own money, or at least 
not as much of it as he wanted to borrow.
Not every situation has a perfect solution, and in my view, this is one where the business 
made a reasonable attempt to put Mr L as close as is practically achievable to the position 
hed have been in but for its admitted errors.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct Coventry Building Society 
to pay Mr L £500 to cover the payment on account he made to his solicitors in respect of 
abortive conveyancing costs.
 My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman