DRN-4430571
The complaint
Mr K complains that when he cancelled his insurance policy, Lockton Companies LLP failed 
to pay a refund of premium to him. 
What happened
Mr K took out a public products and malpractice liability insurance policy through Lockton. 
Lockton is an insurance intermediary and the cover is underwritten by an insurer.
Mr K contacted Lockton about a potential claim by a patient and this was referred to the 
insurer. He later said he intended to offer a refund to the patient himself.
Lockton advised Mr K that the insurer had agreed to assist him with the costs but wouldnt 
reimburse the profit element. He was asked to provide details of the costs and was told  
once that was provided he would be told how much the insurer would reimburse him. 
Mr K was unhappy with the service being provided by Lockton and gave notice to cancel his 
policy. 
Shortly after this, Lockton told Mr K the insurers had agreed to pay £12,466 and said as a 
claim was now being settled, no refund of premium would be due. He was asked to provide 
evidence of the relevant costs and after providing that information, Mr K received the 
payment from the insurers. 
Mr K then complained that he cancelled his policy on the understanding he would receive a 
refund of premium and Lockton had gone back on that promise. 
In its response to the complaint, Lockton accepted there had been some poor service and 
apologised for that, but said 
the terms of the policy clearly say refunds are subject to claims made;
he had been told when the offer of £12,466 was made that if he accepted the 
settlement he would no longer be entitled to any refund.
Mr K referred his complaint to this Service but our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld as Mr K had received a payment from the insurer in respect of a claim. 
Mr K disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. He says the payment from the 
insurer was made as a gesture of goodwill and there wasnt a formal claim on the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms allow Mr K to cancel his policy on giving 30 days notice in writing and say 
You will be entitled to a proportionate return of premium unless a Claim has been made in 
the current Period of Insurance.
So if Mr K had made a claim on his policy he wouldnt be entitled to any refund of premium.
Mr K says there wasnt a claim and the payment he received was a goodwill settlement for 
expenses. However, Im satisfied there was a claim and so he wasnt entitled to a refund of 
premium. Ill explain why.
A claim was referred to the insurer. In an email sent to Mr K he was told the insurer had 
agreed to assist him with the costs but wouldnt reimburse the profit element. He was asked 
to provide details of the costs and Lockton said once that was provided it will be in a 
position to advise of the sum which the insurer is prepared to reimburse you. So there was 
a claim being considered by the insurer. 
Mr K decided to make a payment to the patient to settle the matter without the patient 
pursuing a formal claim against him. But that doesnt mean the claim he made on his 
insurance policy also ended. Mr K sent an email saying he had refunded the patient but he 
needed to understand how this claim would affect next years premium. He added I 
understand I have the option to not make the claim. 
Following a conversation with Mr K about cancelling his policy, Lockton sent an email to him 
with details of the cancellation and refund, but said if hed had a claim during the policy 
period he would not be eligible for a refund. Mr K then confirmed he wanted to cancel.
The insurer continued reviewing the claim and Mr K was told insurers have agreed to meet 
the costs incurred in the sum of £12,466 as a gesture of goodwill this includes the cost of 
13 implants when it appears only 12 were used. This email went on to say  as a claim has 
now been settled, no refund of premium will be due  If you can provide proof of payment 
we will liaise with insurers to make settlement.
Mr K then provided proof of the refund he had paid to the patient after which the insurers 
paid him the sum of £12,466 as a contribution towards that. 
Looking at the above sequence of events, I think its clear a claim was considered by the 
insurer, who made a payment of over £12,000 to Mr K as a contribution towards the amount 
he had paid to the patient. The goodwill gesture referred to the fact the insurer agreed to 
pay the cost of 13 implants rather than 12. 
Mr K was told if he provided details of the sum hed paid, the insurer would settle the claim 
and that meant he would not be entitled to a refund. He went ahead on that basis.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman