DRN-2910206
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Shawbrook Bank Limiteds settlement offer following his claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for some mis-sold solar panels.
What happened
The parties are aware of the detailed background to this complaint. So, I wont repeat that 
here. In summary, Mr S bought a solar panel system from a supplier that Ill call G. He 
financed this with a 15-year fixed term loan from Shawbrook which he has since settled 
using a lump sum payment from his pension. The total amount borrowed was just over 
£12,000. And with interest over 15 years, he would have paid around £24,000.
Mr S has said that G misrepresented the benefits of the panels to him and his savings have 
been nowhere near the estimates he was given. Shawbrook have accepted that G more 
likely than not misrepresented the income and savings to Mr S. So, it made an offer to 
compensate Mr S by restructuring the loan so that he would pay no more than the benefit to 
him of the panels over the original 15-year term of the loan.
Unhappy with this offer, Mr S brought his complaint to our Service. Mr S is represented by 
his daughter who has explained how the purchase of these panels has affected Mr S 
retirement finances.
Our investigator thought that the offer made by Shawbrook amounted to fair compensation. 
Effectively Mr S would only pay for the panels what he got back in Feed-in-Tariff (FIT) and 
export payment income, as well as electricity savings. So, they would be cost neutral. After 
the first 15 years from installation, all income and savings from the panels would effectively 
be profit.
Mr S didnt agree and would like the panels removed and his money back, less any income 
and savings hes had from the panels. Hes also concerned about whether the warranties he 
was given by G will be honoured - G is no longer in business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I agree with our investigator that the offer that Shawbrook 
has made amounts to fair compensation. Ill explain why below. But first may I apologise for 
the time that Mr S has had to wait for a decision on his complaint. Weve had a significant 
number of solar panel complaints brought to us over the last couple of years and these have 
taken us longer than we would have liked to review. Weve been dealing with these in date 
order and thats why Mr S is only now getting a decision on his complaint.
I completely appreciate how upsetting it must have been for Mr S when he learned that the 
benefits form the panels hed bought werent going to be as much as he expected. That was 
down to the misrepresentations made by G - which has since gone out of business. Its 
important to remember though that it wasnt Shawbrook that sold the panels to Mr S. So, 
most of the upset hes been caused is down to Gs actions and not Shawbrooks.
Theres no need for me to consider in detail in this decision whether Shawbrook is liable to 
Mr S for the misrepresentation. Shawbrook has accepted that the benefits of the panels 
were misrepresented and that it must take responsibility for that. But what I do need to 
determine is fair compensation.
Shawbrook has offered to restructure Mr S loan to make the panels self-funding over the 
original 15-year term of the loan. Thats what I would normally expect it to do in the 
circumstances of Mr S complaint. This follows our usual method of awarding compensation, 
where we look to ensure that a customer is not disadvantaged by the representations made. 
Its not common for us to ask a loan provider to completely unwind the loan as Mr S has 
requested. Thats because we think that fair compensation is to ensure that Mr S pays no 
more than the benefits he will continue to get from the panels. 
I know Mr S isnt sure whether the panels are working as they should - as theyve not been 
inspected or serviced since he had them fitted. But all indications are that they are working 
as intended. Mr S is receiving FIT payments and will be benefitting from electricity savings 
during the day by using the power generated by the panels. Shawbrook has estimated that 
the output from the panels is more than that which G predicted. That doesnt mean that they 
are providing the income that Mr S expected. But Mr S should continue to benefit from the 
panels for the rest of their lifespan  which is generally expected to be about 25 years. Mr S 
should also get FIT payments for 20 years.
So, given that the panels are continuing to produce an income for Mr S and Ive not seen 
any evidence to indicate that there is a problem with their performance, it would be 
disproportionate for me to require that they are removed and Mr S be refunded his 
payments. I appreciate that Mr S knows of another customer that has received a full refund. 
But as Ive said, its unusual for us to award that and there must be something in that other 
customers case that warranted the remedy given. Each case with us is considered on its 
own merits.
Shawbrook has calculated that Mr S is due a refund of about £3,300. That calculation is 
based on some assumed values for FIT and electricity savings. If Mr S is to provide 
Shawbrook with all his electricity bills and FIT statements, then Shawbrook will be able to 
update the calculation to take his actual usage and benefits into account. But Ive seen 
nothing wrong with the assumptions that its used in its calculations - which are the standard 
ones agreed with this service for complaints of this type.
I was sorry to hear that Mr S is upset that hes had to use his pension lump sum to settle the 
loan early. I can completely appreciate why hes done this. And he will have saved a 
significant amount of interest as a result. But that has left him without the use of this money 
for his retirement. Whilst the benefits Mr S has received from the solar panels may not have 
been as large as hed have hoped for to date, it may be some consolation to note that with 
the recent increase in electricity prices, Mr S may well benefit by considerably more going 
forward  assuming he is to use most of the energy generated by the panels during the day. 
I cant compensate Mr S for choosing to use his pension lump sum to pay for the system. 
But it may ultimately turn out to be a reasonable investment if electricity prices are to 
continue their upward trend.
I know Mr S would like me to award him compensation for the fact that the 
misrepresentations were made in the first place by G. But as I said above, that wasnt 
Shawbrooks doing but Gs. And G is no longer around for Mr S to pursue. Upon learning of 
Mr S claim, Shawbrook offered to settle it straight away. So, I cant say that it has made the situation any worse for Mr S - which would be the only thing I could award him compensation 
for.
Mr S is also worried about losing the benefit of the system warranties he was given by G. As 
theres nothing apparently wrong with his panels now, theres nothing which Shawbrook can 
answer for here. But the law does provide that where the warranties were part of a contract 
that Shawbrook financed, if anything is to happen to Mr S panels that would otherwise be 
covered by those warranties - and that takes place during the time the warranties were 
active - then Shawbrook may be liable for that. So, if Mr S is to experience any problems 
going forward, he should take that up with Shawbrook at the relevant time.
In calculating the benefits to Mr S over the term of the loan, Shawbrook has estimated that 
Mr S will receive about £12,400 over 15 years. As hes paid around £15,800 already, thats 
why Shawbrook have offered him just over £3,000 compensation. It has also agreed to let 
him keep the panels so that he continues to get an income and savings from them. And its 
offered to pay him 8% simple interest. I think thats fair compensation.
My final decision
Shawbrook Bank Limited has made an offer to settle this complaint which I consider in all the 
circumstances of this case amounts to fair compensation. I require that Shawbrook Bank 
Limited:
Recalculate the loan so that Mr S pays no more than the known and assumed 
savings and income that he will receive from the solar panel system over the 15-year 
term of the loan and it must ensure that he pays no more than that;
Allow Mr S to keep the solar panels and other energy saving devices;
Calculate any overpayments made by Mr S and repay them to him; and
Add simple interest at 8%* a year to any overpayments as offered.
*HM Revenue and Customs may require that Shawbrook deduct tax from any interest paid. 
Should Mr S request it, Shawbrook should give him a certificate showing how much tax has 
been taken off so that he may reclaim it if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022. 
James Kennard
Ombudsman