DRN-4224346
The complaint
Mr H complains through a representative that Buffa Loans Ltd (Buffa) gave him a loan 
without carrying out proportionate affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr H took one loan from Buffa for £500 on 6 April 2021. Mr H was due to make six monthly 
repayments of £154.38 and the loan was repaid on 30 September 2021. 
In response to Mr Hs representatives complaint, Buffa issued its final response letter, and it 
didnt uphold the complaint. Mr Hs representative didnt agree and instead referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt uphold it. She concluded the 
checks carried out by Buffa were proportionate and showed the loan to be affordable. She 
also concluded there wasnt anything in the information Buffa received that wouldve 
prompted it to have carried out further checks. 
Mr H and his representative didnt agree with the outcome and asked for a final decision. As 
no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Buffa had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the amount
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Buffas checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Hs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Buffa should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Hs complaint.  
Buffa was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loan  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint.
Buffa has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr H for details of his 
income and expenditure. Mr H declared his income was £1,800 per month and he declared 
monthly outgoings of £850. Therefore, based solely on Mr Hs declared income and 
expenditure details the loan repayment of around £154 each month appeared affordable. 
In addition, before the loan was approved Buffa also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of the results it received from the credit
reference agency. I want to add that although Buffa carried out a credit search there
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what
Buffa couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the
information it received  if necessary.
Having reviewed the credit check results for the loan, there isnt anything in the results that 
wouldve indicated that Mr H was having financial difficulties. While Buffa knew that Mr H 
had defaulted on a loan account, this was around two years before the loan was advanced. 
So, I dont think Buffa wouldve been too concerned by that. 
In addition, Buffa knew Mr H had had two current accounts, two loans with a combined 
monthly repayment of £441 per month and car insurance costing Mr H £294 per month. 
These active accounts had been managed well because there were no late payment 
markers or other signs that Mr H was having difficulties maintaining his payments. 
In my view, there wasnt anything, solely from the credit check results that ought to have led 
Buffa to either have carried out further checks such as reviewing bank statements or 
prompted it to have declined Mr Hs application for credit. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Buffa to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Mr H had provided. So, while Mr H has provided copy bank statements, in this case, it 
wouldve been disproportionate for Buffa to have considered them. 
Given it was early in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Buffa to have 
relied on the information Mr H provided along with the income and expenditure figures to 
show he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. There also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr H was having financial difficulties 
or that the loan repayments would be unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman