DRN-2819239
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, have reneged on an 
offer made following an internal review of credit limits on credit cards. He also complains a 
later credit card hasnt been subject to the same review, and that it shouldnt have agreed 
the lending on this card at all. 
What happened
In 2014, Mr S had an existing credit card with Barclaycard. Although it had started with a 
higher credit limit, the card account closed with a limit of £100 having been increased from 
£50 a few months prior. 
In May 2014, Mr S applied for another card with Barclaycard, which offered a 0% rate on 
balanced transfers. Barclaycard carried out a credit reference check and agreed to a new 
credit card account with a limit of £5,500. Over the course of the next month, Mr S 
transferred existing credit card balances to the account, and withdrew large sums of cash 
from the account, so it exceeded the limit (by a small sum). 
Mr S first payment was substantially more than the minimum required on the account. Mr S 
continued spending on the account, both for everyday sending and taking advantage of 
further balance transfers. And Mr S continued to make the minimum repayments or more 
until he got into financial difficulties in 2015. 
In 2020, Mr S was sent a letter in relation to the account that was closed in 2014, following 
an internal review conducted into credit limits and that all relevant information may not have 
been taken into account when increasing limits. During a call Mr S was offered £75, which 
was a blanket offer made to customers. But unhappy with that, Mr S wanted the matter 
looked into further. He also wanted his later credit card account reviewed in relation to the 
lending and any limit increased. Barclaycard explained his newer account wasnt subject to 
the review, hadnt had any credit limit increases, and was satisfied the limit of £5,500 was 
correct. And in relation to his other account, there had only been one increased from £50-
£100 and revised its offer from £75 down to £25. 
Not happy with that, Mr S asked us to look into the matter. Our investigator was satisfied 
Barclaycard hadnt done anything wrong when agreeing to a new card with a limit of £5,500. 
But she felt the original offer of £75 should stand. Barclaycard agreed to pay that, and Mr S 
agrees that part of his complaint has been settled. However, he remains of the view he 
should never have been lent to and doesnt agree with our approach to leave the capital sum 
owing where we find a lender shouldnt have lent.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure both parties that although I have only summarised the 
background and arguments above, I have read and considered everything provided. It isnt 
my role to comment on every point  rather, in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome, I 
concentrate on the crux of the issue, whether Barclaycard was acting responsibly when 
lending to Mr S. 
Under the regulations in place, Barclaycard was required to undertake a reasonable 
assessment of credit worthiness of a customer before entering into a credit agreement or 
increasing the level of credit granted. Checks are required to be proportionate and its for 
Barclaycard to show that it carried out reasonable checks before deciding to lend. The larger 
the borrowing, the more checks and assessments ought to be carried out. There is no set 
criteria or format for the assessments, but lenders should be using such information as the 
applicants income, credit information and ability to repay, both at the time of applying and in 
the future. 
From the information provided, I can see that Barclaycard was aware of Mr S income, and it 
was aware of existing borrowing, including his mortgage, secured lending, and other credit 
cards and their respective balances. And the credit file information it received showed all of 
Mr S accounts were in good order, without any arrears or defaults. Barclaycard would also 
have been aware of how the previous account had been conducted. Im not persuaded there 
is anything in the information it obtained or had available to it, which ought to have given it 
any cause for concern, such that it ought to have been prompted into doing more in-depth 
checks, such as asking to see bank statements. 
Mr S has provided his bank statements to show he wasnt in a position to afford the credit 
card. I can see from these that he operated his account largely in its overdraft. But many 
people do, and that of itself wouldnt indicate that lending was unaffordable. I can also see 
that Mr S appears to have been borrowing on a short-term basis with payday and other 
short-term lenders. This can indicate financial difficulties or affordability issues but is also 
how some people manage their finances.
The credit file information Barclaycard obtained doesnt appear to show any short-term 
lending. And having reviewed the credit file Mr S has provided, which covers the period in 
question, almost none of the short term lending he took out is recorded there either (I could 
only see two instances in January 2014 and then again in April 2014). This can sometimes 
happen where the lending is for very short periods of time  i.e. if the amount borrowed is 
repaid within 30 days, it isnt always recorded on a credit file. And any borrowing taken in 
April is unlikely to have shown in any credit check carried out the following month simply 
because of the lag between borrowing and the updating of credit information; that is just a 
matter of timing. 
Having looked at the operation of the account, this also doesnt strike me as the lending 
being unaffordable. Although Mr S used the entire balance available, I note around £2,500 of 
that was as a result of balance transfers. Therefore Mr S was simply replacing one debt with 
another and likely at a cheaper rate  0%, and so not increasing his overall indebtedness. 
However, I also note that he withdrew around £1,500 in cash, which is usually the most 
expensive way to spend on a credit card. So there was a small increase in borrowing. Mr S 
first monthly payment was far in excess of the minimum required and the following 
repayments were either for the minimum amount, or in excess of that; there were no missed 
payments. And the spending wasnt indicative of someone who couldnt afford the borrowing, 
with much being on discretionary spending rather than essentials. In all, Im not persuaded 
the spending and repayment pattern are indicative of unaffordable lending. 
I do understand and accept that Mr S was later in financial difficulties, but this was sometime 
after the credit card was approved. Having considered the matter carefully, and realising this 
will be disappointing for Mr S, Im not persuaded Barclaycard did anything wrong when it 
agreed to lend. My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman