DRN-2765246
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with a hire purchase agreement he took with Oodle Financial Services 
Limited to get a car. He says Oodle didnt check the borrowing was affordable for him and it 
shouldnt have lent him the funds.
  
What happened
 In December 2018 Mr T went to a dealer to discuss changing his car. Mr T traded in his 
previous car for another used model and the dealer brokered finance with Oodle to cover the 
cost.
Oodle provided a hire purchase agreement funding the cars cost of £18,204.27 to Mr T. The 
regular monthly repayments were £417.18 per month over 60 months, with a total amount 
repayable of £25,130.80. 
Mr T says shortly after getting the car it became apparent he couldnt afford the repayments. 
The direct debit for the first repayment in January 2019 was returned unpaid. Mr T quickly 
got into arrears on the account and he says got into debt with family members who had to 
make his repayments for him. In April 2019 it appears he asked Oodle about returning the 
car.
In November 2019 Mr T received a letter from his insurance company saying it couldnt find 
any insurer from its panel who would cover him in this car. Later in November 2019 Mr T 
complained to Oodle. He said at the time the lending was given, he was only earning £9 an 
hour and already had other bills and finance to pay. He said he was in negative equity on his 
previous car finance agreement and had bad credit. He said the agreement was never 
affordable for him from the beginning.
In December 2019 Oodle issued its final response. It said, in summary, that when Mr T took 
the borrowing he confirmed he worked full time and earned £24,000 a year. It said Mr T 
signed an agreement and confirmed the lending was affordable for him. And it said it 
completed relevant background checks. Oodle didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
In December 2019 Mr T says he registered the car off the road (SORN) and hasnt driven it 
since.
Mr T remained unhappy with Oodles response and brought the complaint to our service. He 
reiterated the lending was unaffordable for him. And he provided some invoices for repairs 
which he said he had to get family to pay for as he couldnt afford to maintain the car. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ts complaint. She said, in summary, that Oodle didnt do enough 
checks to make sure the borrowing was affordable for Mr T before he took it. She said shed 
reviewed Mr Ts bank statements from around the time and concluded that if Oodle had 
done further checks these wouldve shown he couldnt afford the borrowing.
Our investigator said in order to put things right, Oodle should end the agreement, collect the 
car, and refund Mr T all the repayments, fees, interest and charges hes paid. She said 
Oodle could retain £3,000 from this amount to reflect Mr Ts usage of the car. And she said 
Oodle should remove any adverse information from Mr Ts credit file.
Oodle responded and said it didnt agree. It said that it thought it had done enough checks to 
make sure Mr T could afford the lending and reiterated what checks it said it did. It also 
provided a form Mr T signed at the time.
Mr T responded and said he was happy with the investigators opinion. But he also said he 
was concerned about the work hed paid out for on the car and pointed out the invoices and 
receipts hed provided.
The case was then passed to me to decide. I sent Mr T and Oodle a provisional decision on 
16 March 2021. This explained that I was thinking of coming to the same outcome as our 
investigator, but Id done so for slightly different reasons. And I was considering instructing 
Oodle to do something different to put things right. My findings from this decision were as 
follows:
Mr T has complained about a hire purchase agreement. Providing consumer credit contracts 
like this is a regulated activity. So, Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ts complaint about Oodle.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulations, 
rules and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the time. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules about checking lending is affordable 
for consumers in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) which, amongst other things, I 
will take account of.
Oodle should be well aware of the rules, regulations and good industry practice here for 
what checks it shouldve done to make sure the borrowing was affordable for Mr T. So, I 
dont need to go into full details here. There isnt a set list of checks Oodle needed to do at 
the time. But, in summary, CONC explains Oodle needed to do reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr T could afford the repay the borrowing in a sustainable 
way.
So, what I need to consider in this case is whether Oodle did enough to check the borrowing 
was affordable for Mr T before it agreed to lend to him. If it didnt, I need to consider if Mr T 
has lost out because of this.
Ive considered what checks Oodle did at the time. I wont go into details about the specific 
requirements Oodle said Mr T met, as this is quite technical, and these wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to list here. But, I do want to reassure Oodle that Ive carefully considered 
all of the information it provided about its internal requirements. Oodle says, in summary, 
that it checked Mr Ts details against its own income and lending criteria. It also says it did a 
credit check on Mr T and this met its internal requirements for the lending.
Ive thought carefully about the checks Oodle did. Oodle says its affordability estimations 
showed Mr T would have a disposable income of £408.33 a month after the loan repayment 
was taken into account. But, Oodle didnt verify Mr Ts income. And it didnt verify, or even 
ask, what Mr Ts outgoings at the time were.
Mr T provided his credit file to us. I can see at the point he took the borrowing he had some 
negative information on his file with several accounts with late repayments on. 
Ive considered that Mr T was borrowing a total of over £25,000, over five years with monthly 
repayments of over £400. Im satisfied this represents a very significant financial commitment. And the repayments were higher than the borrowing Mr T had for his existing 
car finance.
Ive also considered the particular car that Oodle financed. The car Mr T acquired was a high 
performance version of the model that was several years old. This meant its running costs 
were likely to be higher than an alternative car and considering Mr Ts age at the time, also 
wouldve likely meant significantly higher insurance premiums than a lower powered car. 
Considering all of this, Im satisfied Oodle did not make reasonable and proportionate 
checks to make sure Mr T could afford the borrowing.
Ive have considered what Mr T signed at the time. Oodle have provided a treating 
customers fairly review document from the dealer. Part of this says 
Some of the key elements you should consider are:
Your affordability to your quotation (sic), taking into account other commitments you may 
have
Ive also considered that the terms and conditions for the agreement point out that Mr T 
should make sure the lending is affordable for him. But, it was Oodles responsibility to make 
sure this was the case. Im satisfied it didnt do this. So, these documents dont change my 
opinion.
Finally, there is some dispute here over what Mr T told the dealer at the time about his 
income. Oodle says it believes Mr T told the dealer that his income was £24,000 a year. 
Mr T says he didnt tell it this. I dont believe Mr Ts income was at this level  as Ill come on 
to explain later. But, even if Mr T did say this, given the other circumstances and amount of 
lending, Im still satisfied Oodle shouldve done further checks. So, either way, this doesnt 
change my opinion.
What I now need to consider is whether or not Mr T has lost out because Oodle didnt do 
enough checks to make sure the lending was affordable. In other words, I need to decide 
what I think its likely wouldve happened if Oodle did do enough checks. 
Examples of further checks Oodle couldve done at the time would be things like verifying 
Mr Ts income through wage slips. It also couldve verified his expenditure, which it couldve 
done by completing a detailed income and expenditure assessment or by checking his bank 
statements. 
Mr T has provided three months bank statements from around the time he took the lending. 
As above, this would be an example of the type of check I think Oodle shouldve done at the 
time - so Ive reviewed these to see what his income and expenditure was.
In her view, our investigator said she thought after reviewing Mr Ts bank statements that on 
average his income was £1,926 a month. But I dont agree with this figure. Our investigator 
included amounts Mr T received that were described as expenses from his employer as 
part of his income. But, expenses would only cover Mr Ts costs from his employer for work 
related expenses that hed already paid out for. So, I dont think its fair to consider this as 
income. Having reviewed Mr Ts statements, Im satisfied he had an average income of 
around £1,386.86 a month at the time he acquired the car.
Ive considered the outgoings I can see on Mr Ts bank statements. Mr T says he paid 
around £875 a month to his ex-partner for rent and bills. But, looking at the statements it 
doesnt appear this was the case. I can see Mr T paid an average of around £595 a month to what he says was an account with his ex-partner - which seems reasonable for the bills and 
rent he told us about. 
Mr T was paying around another £102.28 on bills and other finance repayments directly from 
his bank account per month. I should point out that this doesnt include his previous car 
finance, which was settled as part of this agreement.
Ive then considered what Mr T would be paying under the new finance agreement and for 
his new insurance costs. In total, I think all these outgoings, including the new loan, would 
total around £1,250.51 a month. This does leave Mr T some spare income. So, Ive carefully 
considered if this means the lending was affordable.
Mr T wouldve been left with around £136.35 a month  or £31.46 a week. But, this would 
need to cover Mr Ts other essential outgoings including food, petrol and clothing. And, Ive 
considered that, as I previously explained, the car Mr T got was a used performance model. 
So, its reasonable to assume Mr T wouldve also had some significant maintenance costs 
throughout the term of the agreement that he would also need to cover from this amount.
Considering all of this, Im satisfied the borrowing was not affordable for Mr T when he 
acquired the car. So, I now need to consider what would be reasonable to put this right.
I think its fair that Oodle cancel this agreement with nothing further to pay. I think it would be 
reasonable for Mr T to pay for the usage of the car hes had, as hes covered around 18,500 
miles in it. But, I think everything else paid under the agreement, including any fees, interest 
and charges, should be reimbursed. 
Our investigator said she thought £250 a month was a reasonable amount for Mr T to pay for 
the usage of the car. And I agree that this is fair. Mr T has shown his insurance company 
wouldnt cover him from 8 December 2019. He says he stopped using the car at this time 
and declared it off road. So, I dont think its reasonable for him to pay for any usage since 
this time.
Ive also considered the invoices for the work Mr T paid out for on the car. Mr T says he had 
to borrow funds from family to cover these costs. If Oodle hadnt lent to him then he wouldnt 
have incurred these expenses. And, given Im recommending Oodle takes the car back, he 
wont benefit from any work done moving forward. So, I think its reasonable that Oodle 
reimburse Mr T for these costs. I have noted one of the invoices contains a charge for an 
MOT, which Mr T wouldve had to pay out for on any car he might have acquired, or his 
previous car - so I dont think its reasonable to reimburse him this amount.
Finally, Mr T wouldnt have had negative information on his credit file in relation to this 
borrowing if Oodle hadnt lent to him. So, it should remove this information from Mr Ts credit 
file.
I gave both parties one month to come back with any further information or evidence.
Mr T got in touch and said he agreed with what Id said. 
Oodle responded and said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered all of the information about this case, I still think Mr Ts complaint 
should be upheld. 
I say this for the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and set out above. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Oodle Financial Services Limited 
to put things right by doing the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
Collect the car at a time and date suitable for Mr T at no cost
Reimburse Mr T all repayments made towards the agreement along with any interest, 
fees or charges. Oodle can retain from this amount £250 a month prorated from 
when Mr T took the agreement to 8 December 2019*
Reimburse Mr T £210.71 from 17 January 2019*
Reimburse Mr T £48 from 22 January 2019*
Reimburse Mr T £1586.18 from 1 March 2019*
Reimburse Mr T £89.51 from 18 July 2019*
Reimburse Mr T £124.20 from 22 July 2019*
Reimburse Mr T £140.35 from 26 July 2019*
Reimburse Mr T £848.93 from 7 August 2019*
Reimburse Mr T £144.11 from 14 August 2019*
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ts credit file about this account
*These amounts should have 8% simple interest per annum added from the date of payment 
to the date of reimbursement. If Oodle is required by HM Revenue & Customs to remove 
income tax from this interest it should tell Mr T how much it has taken off. And it should 
provide Mr T a certificate to show this if he asks for one so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman