DRN-2500074
The complaint
Miss B complains that ELL shouldnt have lent her a loan as she had mental health 
challenges at the time and ELL didnt query this before lending to her. She has also said that 
it didnt treat her fairly when she told it she was in financial difficulties.
  
What happened
In 2018, Miss B referred her complaint about ELLs decision to lend to her to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld. In 2020, Miss B again complained about the lending the decision, this time 
she says she was struggling with mental health at the time and ELL shouldnt have lent to 
her and that it hasnt helped her when she told it she was in financial difficulties.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and said that this service had previously looked at 
Miss Bs complaint about whether ELL should have lent to her and he wont be revisiting it. 
He didnt think there was sufficient evidence for ELL to know that Miss B was suffering from 
mental illness when it lent to her but thought ELL didnt do enough to help Miss B when she 
told it she was in financial difficulties. He recommended that ELL paid Miss B £200 for the 
trouble and upset.
ELL disagreed, it said it accepted a reduced payment from Miss B and didnt decline to allow 
Miss Bs parents help with the debt repayment.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following the adjudicators view, Miss B doesnt disagree with his findings and so there isnt 
a continuing dispute about ELLs awareness of Miss Bs mental illness at the time it decided 
to lend and so Ive focussed my decision on whether ELL treated Miss B fairly when she was 
in financial difficulties.
From the information provided, Miss Bs recollection is that she contacted ELL in 2017 to ask 
for the interest on her loan to be frozen/reduced. She also said that her parents offered to 
repay the loan and ELL declined this option. ELL has said it didnt decline this option but has 
said it accepted a reduced monthly payment of £55.04 from August 2019. I havent seen 
evidence that shows Miss Bs parents offering to pay off the debt and ELL declining this. 
However, ELLs system notes suggest that it was aware of Miss Bs financial difficulties in 
November 2017 as its system notes show that C called it to say she was struggling to keep 
up with the loan repayments as well as her other bills. Ive also listened to this call recording 
about this conversation.
I havent seen information that persuades me that ELL was proactive in offering her 
assistance at the time in 2017, from what ELL has told this service it investigated her 
complaint in 2017 but I cant see that it took any further steps to help Miss B like freezing 
interests or taking steps to understand her financial circumstances and potentially agree a 
repayment plan at the time. It appears that ELL only took steps to assist Miss B in 2019 
when it agreed to accept lower payments.
Id have expected ELL to offer assistance to Miss B at the earliest opportunity in line with 
good practice and fairness, but I cant see that it has done this. I think ELLs lack of 
assistance at the earliest opportunity has caused Miss B trouble and upset and it is only fair 
that it pays some compensation for this. I agree with the adjudicator that £200 is fair in the 
circumstances.
Id also remind ELL of its duty to continue treating Miss B with forbearance, if theres still an 
outstanding balance on the account and would ask ELL to work out a suitable repayment 
plan with Miss B. 
Putting things right
Everyday Lending Limited should pay Miss B £200 in compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, Im partly upholding Miss Bs complaint and direct Everyday 
Lending Limited to put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman