DRN-3119008
The complaint
Mr W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank, has rejected the 
claim he made under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
What happened
In 2015, Mr W agreed to purchase a solar panel system, including a voltage optimiser, from 
a supplier (which I will refer to as E). Mr W took a loan from Tesco which he used to pay for 
the solar panels. 
Mr W says that he didnt think that he had a choice about taking the loan, as E told him they 
used Tesco for all their solar panel customers. Mr W says that Es representative completed 
the application on their laptop and Mr W simply answered the questions he was asked and 
signed the application. 
Mr W says that E misrepresented the benefits of the system, in that he was told the benefits 
in feed-in tariff (FIT) payments and electricity savings would exceed the annual cost of the 
loan. But that hasnt happened. E has since gone out of business. And Mr W thinks that 
Tesco is liable for that misrepresentation and the losses that followed from it. 
Tesco responded to say that:
There has never been a commercial arrangement or affiliation between Tesco and E.
Tesco received Mr Ws internet application for the loan on 19 December 2015. The 
purpose stated was that the loan was for home improvements. 
It would not have been possible for Tesco to know Mr W was intending to make a 
purchase with a solar panel company.
The supplier Mr W dealt with did not represent Tesco Bank. 
Once funds were dispersed, Tesco had no control over what Mr W chose to spend 
the funds on. 
Tesco cannot be held liable for purchases made with the loan funds. 
Unhappy with this, Mr W complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint and felt Tesco had no liability under Section 75 of the Act, and that 
it had done nothing wrong. 
Mr W replied to reiterate his reasons for thinking that Tesco and E had some sort of 
affiliation. And that if he had thought he had a choice about where to borrow from to fund the 
purchase of the solar panels, he wouldnt have chosen Tesco. 
As an agreement could not be reached, Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order for Section 75 of the Act to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied  
one of which is establishing a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (DCS) between the parties. 
Theres a formal explanation in section 12 of the Act. But, in simple terms, this means there 
needs to be: 
A debtor  the person buying the goods or services on credit, who has an obligation 
to make repayments to the creditor. 
A creditor  the credit provider, who pays the supplier for the goods or services on 
behalf of the debtor. 
A supplier  the party who provides the goods or services to the consumer and 
receives payment from the credit provider
In this case Tescos involvement does not meet the criteria of a creditor under Section 75 of 
the Act. This is because the loan funds were paid to Mr W, not directly to E. And Mr W was 
free to do what he wanted with that money. Under the terms of the loan he was not obliged 
to buy the solar panels (or anything else).
With this in mind I do not think that Tesco has any liability for the acts or omissions of E 
when it sold the solar panels to Mr W. So, even if Mr W was misled (which I offer no opinion 
on), Tesco cannot be held liable for this. 
Because of this, I do not think Tesco did anything wrong when it declined Mr Ws claim. I 
appreciate that Mr W will be frustrated by this, not least because E has gone out of business. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman