DRN-4266170
The complaint
Mr J and Ms M complain about the way Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited, trading as 
Swinton Insurance, administered their home insurance policy.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mr J and Ms M bought their home in 1998. It had previously suffered from 
subsidence and been underpinned. Swinton had provided the home insurance to the 
previous owners and Mr J and Ms M continued that arrangement.
Swinton is a broker. It has a panel of companies who may offer a policy to a 
particular consumer depending on the consumers circumstances and each 
companys own business model and an insurers approach to risk.
Over the years, Swinton has sourced a home insurance policy for Mr J and Ms M. 
From at least 2009, that was through a company Ill call T, and the cover included 
subsidence. T was itself acting as an intermediary, providing the policy for insurers.
In 2016, Swinton said it had updated its systems and none of the companies on its 
panel were prepared to offer cover due to the history of subsidence. I understand 
Swinton suggested Mr J and Ms M go direct to T.
They did that, and T provided them with a policy. The cover was provided by an 
insurer, L, and it didnt include subsidence. A separate complaint has been 
considered about T.
Mr J and Ms M complained to Swinton. They said it had lost or removed information 
about the previous underpinning, which had caused the loss of subsidence cover and 
years of stress trying to have it reinstated.
Our investigator didnt think Swinton had lost or removed any information. It was 
aware of the previous underpinning at the 2016 renewal. But as none of the 
companies on its panel would offer cover at that time, Swinton couldnt offer a policy.
Mr J and Ms M didnt take that complaint any further. But later they raised new points 
about the way Swinton had handled things. Swinton looked at those points as a 
second complaint and maintained it had acted fairly.
Our investigator reviewed the second complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said Swinton was under no obligation to offer continued subsidence cover in 
2016. And even if its communication at that time had been better, that wouldnt have 
changed the position Mr J and Ms M were in.
Mr J and Ms M asked for an Ombudsman to consider their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scope of this complaint is limited to the activities Swinton was responsible for in 
its role as an insurance broker. I cant consider any activities other parties were 
responsible for or the actions of those parties. So I wont be considering how T, L, or 
any other parties has acted in relation to Mr J and Ms Ms policies.
I know Mr J and Ms M feel strongly about what happened in 2016. But some of the 
relevant information, such as phone calls, isnt available any longer. Given the time 
that has elapsed since then, I dont find that unusual or unreasonable. But it means 
my findings will be based on the information that is available, together with what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened in the circumstances.
There is an obligation on insurers to provide ongoing subsidence cover in certain 
circumstances. But that obligation doesnt extend to a broker, such as Swinton. A 
broker cant compel an insurer to offer certain cover that it doesnt want to, so it 
wouldnt be practical to expect Swinton to provide ongoing subsidence cover.
Swintons internal notes are quite clear that over the years, including in 2016, it was 
aware of the history of subsidence and underpinning. And because the companies on 
its panel werent prepared to offer cover for properties with this kind of history in 
2016, it couldnt provide a renewal for Mr J and Ms M at that time. Thats why there 
was no renewal invitation that year. And there was no obligation on Swinton to 
provide a notice of change or letter of transfer in these circumstances.
Its not clear how well Swinton communicated with Mr J and Ms M about what had 
happened and the options available to them. But it did make clear that it couldnt 
provide cover any longer. And it suggested they get in touch directly with T, which 
seems like a sensible thing to have done as T had been providing home insurance, 
including subsidence cover, for many years. I cant hold Swinton responsible for how 
T acted once Mr J and Ms M contacted it.
I understand Mr J and Ms M feel they were misled when they spoke to Swinton in 
2016. They recall it saying they werent covered for subsidence, and they passed this 
information to T. They consider that influenced the way T later acted.
Without the call recording, or any notes of it, and bearing in mind Mr J and Ms Ms 
recollection is around seven years old, its difficult to safely conclude what Swinton 
likely said at that time. It may have said it couldnt provide subsidence cover from 
2016, which isnt the same as saying it hadnt done so before, and is accurate. Or it 
may have mistakenly given them wrong or misleading information. But even if it did 
make a mistake, Im not satisfied its been shown this influenced T.
T is an intermediary in its own right and is responsible for treating Mr J and Ms M in 
line with relevant rules and guidance, and fairly and reasonably. They have 
complained about Ts actions separately, so I cant consider Ts actions here. But I 
note T was aware they wanted a policy with subsidence cover. And the way T dealt 
with this didnt depend on Swinton, but on the underwriting and approach to risk of 
the insurers T was in contact with. So Im not persuaded Swinton had any impact on 
T, even if it did make a mistake.Overall, Im satisfied Swinton treated Mr J and Ms M fairly in 2016. I know theyve 
found it distressing to be left without subsidence cover since then and have invested 
a lot of time trying to find out more about what happened. But I havent found 
anything to suggest Swinton treated them unfairly or contributed to the problem. So 
Im not going to require Swinton to take any action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman