DRN-3927121
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Monzo Bank Ltd.
She says that Monzo didnt do enough to protect her when she became the victim of a scam 
and would like Monzo to refund her the money she has lost as a result.
What happened
Mrs S was looking online for investment and came across a website called FCTrading.pro. 
Mrs S says that the website looked professional and had live trading platforms in different 
currencies. So, she submitted an enquiry to learn more.
Shortly after, Mrs S was contacted by a representative of FCT who provided information and 
told her she would be contacted by an account manager and would need to deposit $250 to 
begin investing. 
Mrs S was then contacted by her account manager who persuaded her to download 
Anydesk and would help her to do the trades. She signed an official looking document and 
watched her account manager trade on her behalf. She was persuaded to purchase crypto 
with the end goal of using profits from this to purchase Amazon shares. 
Mrs S was initially happy with how things were going as she felt that she could see with her 
own eyes that she was making money. However, soon, the account manager began being 
pushy with her to invest more  and then told her that she needed to pay more money as 
commission before she could make a withdrawal. 
After this was paid, Mrs S received a phone call from HMRC saying that she needed to pay 
tax  which Mrs S was confused by as she was yet to receive her withdrawal. She contacted 
the real HMRC who told her that it would never call to request money in this way. 
The account manager tried to persuade Mrs S that she must have been dealing with a traitor 
in his team  but Mrs S had now lost trust and realised she had been the victim of a scam.
Mrs S made a complaint to Monzo  but it didnt uphold her complaint. She then made a 
complaint to this Service. Our Investigator looked into things and thought that the complaint 
should be upheld in part. 
Mrs S agreed with this, But Monzo didnt  so the complaint has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part, for broadly the same reasons 
as out Investigator. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute here that Mrs S was the victim of a scam  she was persuaded to download 
Anydesk and to purchase crypto in order to facilitate the further purchase of Amazon shares. 
She was then asked to pay commission to withdraw money, and then a second scam was 
attempted to try and get her to pay tax that wasnt due.
Mrs S made the following payments. I have included payments which were declined and so 
reversed by Monzo. All payments were made to legitimate crypto exchanges.
Date Merchant Amount
17 November 2021 G £186.51
18 November 2021 C £3,750.00 (Declined)
18 November 2021 Mo £1485.59 (Declined)
18 November 2021 B £3,713.97 (Declined)
19 November 2021 C £1,000
19 November 2021 Mer £0.84 (Declined)
19 November 2021 Mer £1,485.59
19 November 2021 Mer £1,350 (Declined)
19 November 2021 Mer £1337.03
22 November 2021 Mer £1864.65
22 November 2021 Mer £1864.65
23 November 2021 Mer £1,493.77
24 November 2021 Mer £974.44
24 November 2021 Mer £2,623.50
24 November 2021 Mer £2773.42
24 November 2021 Mer £2,098.80
24 November 2021 Mer £2,627.25
24 November 2021 Mer £900.77
Mrs Ss total loss is therefore £21,230.38.
Did Mrs S authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mrs S isnt liable for payments 
she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.While I understand Mrs S had been tricked into instructing Monzo to make the payments and 
never intended the payments to go to the scammers, Im satisfied that Mrs S did authorise 
the payments in question here. She made them while she was convinced she was dealing 
with a legitimate business, and it wasnt until after the payments had been made that she 
became aware that this was not the case. 
Should Monzo have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Monzo reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all the payments Mrs S made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss before 
it happened.
As Ive explained above, Im satisfied Mrs S authorised the scam payments in question here 
 so she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Monzo should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be 
struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The first payment
I am not persuaded that the first payment should have triggered Monzo into taking any 
further action before processing the payment on Mrs Ss request. It wasnt for a large or 
unusual amount  and wouldnt have stood out as an unusual payment, and even though it 
was going to a crypto exchange, not all such payments are as a result of a scam. And as Ive 
explained above, there is a balance to be struck.
The three declined payments
Mrs S then went on to make three further payments on 18 November 2021. While these 
payments were declined by Monzo and didnt end up debiting her account, the total 
attempted in in one day was now almost £9000  again all going to crypto. This was a 
significant sum of money and was unusual for Mrs Ss normal usage of her account. All the 
payments were for different amounts too  it wasnt like Mrs S was attempting to complete 
the same transaction three times.These attempted payments shouldve stuck out to Monzo as being uncommon considering 
the way Mrs S generally used her account, especially given that by January 2019, Monzo 
should already have had a good understanding about how scams like the one Mrs S fell 
victim to work.
I understand that Monzo believes that as Mrs S had made small trades in crypto previously, 
that the larger payments were not unusual, as people usually start with lower amounts and 
then invest more. But the declined payments marked a significant change in Mrs Ss usual 
behaviour. It also says that it is not able to stop all high value payments going to crypto as 
this would cause issues for customers legitimately trying to make these types of payments. 
But I am not suggesting that it does so  what I am saying is that it needs to be aware of 
changes in behaviour that could indicate a customer is at risk of financial harm.
With this in mind, Monzo should reasonably have contacted Mrs S to establish whether the 
transaction posed any possibility of placing her in financial harm before processing it. But it 
did not do so. If Monzo had done so, I wouldve expected it to have questioned Mrs S about 
the payment  including what she was trying to make the payments for and surrounding 
context and to proceed accordingly. The intention being to disrupt or uncover a potential 
fraud or scam. But it did not do so.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs S was coached or told to lie about the payments she 
was making, so I think that had Monzo contacted her to discuss the payments she would 
have told it what had happened and what she was doing. So, I think that Mrs S would have 
told Monzo that she was purchasing crypto to buy Amazon shares and that she had 
downloaded AnyDesk onto her computer in order to be assisted in making the investment. 
This should have been a red-flag to Monzo  and it should have given her a meaningful 
warning that what she had told it bore all the hallmarks of a sophisticated scam  and I dont 
think that Mrs S would have ignored this warning and risked making further payments. 
Monzo says that even if it had contacted Mrs S, it cannot be sure that this would have 
stopped Mrs S from continuing with the payments as from its experience customers are not 
always honest about what has happened. But it didnt give Mrs S such a warning anyway, so 
I fail to see how it can conclude that she would have likely ignored it.
So, I think that Monzo couldve prevented Mrs Ss loss from this point.
Should Mrs S bear some responsibility for the loss?
While I do consider that Monzo should have prevented the payments from 18 November 
2021, I do also need to consider if Mrs S should bear some responsibility for the loss by way 
of contributory negligence.
However, I dont think that this would be appropriate in this instance. Mrs S was not a 
sophisticated investor and had found the information provided to her about the company 
and its website professional and convincing. She also signed legitimate looking paperwork. 
Monzo was the experts here  and had more knowledge on the intricacies of these types of 
scams. 
Putting things right
Monzo Bank Ltd should pay Mrs S the money she has lost after 18 November 2021. I 
calculate this to be £21,043.87.
It should also pay Mrs S 8% simple interest, per year, on this amount from the date of the 
payments to settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Monzo Bank Ltd should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman