DRN-4340129
The complaint
Mrs P complains about QIC Europe Limiteds (QIC) poor service following a claim under her 
home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mrs P held a home emergency policy with QIC. She contacted QIC to make a claim as her 
toilet was leaking. It contacted an engineer who didnt contact Mrs P until around eight hours 
after she had initially reported the leak. The engineer didnt attend until the next day and Mrs 
P describes that during the repair, the engineer made matters worse and ultimately didnt 
repair the toilet.
Another engineer was sent, and he too (according to Mrs Ps account) caused even more 
damage. Mrs P eventually instructed an independent engineer to repair her toilet. She said 
that she had to also replace her toilet. The total cost of this replacement and repair was 
£259.15, which Mrs P had to pay for. 
Mrs P felt that as QICs contractors had caused damage to her home, then QIC ought to pay 
for the damage caused by them (in excess of £2,000). So, QIC instructed a surveyor to 
assess the damage. In his report, he concluded that without evidence of the broken toilet or 
related connectors, little more could be said as to negligence or fault. 
Mrs P further complained to QIC and in its final response, it relied upon the policy terms and 
conditions, as to why it said it wasnt responsible for any reinstatement costs. The specific 
term stated that it wasnt responsible for any damage its contractors may have caused, when 
dealing with the emergency. It confirmed that it had advised Mrs P to claim on her home 
insurance policy for the damage  which she declined to do. And although it said it had 
complied with the terms of the policy, it offered Mrs P £150 compensation as a goodwill 
gesture.  
Mrs P was given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be partially upheld. She agreed 
that the amount of the goodwill gesture that QIC offered was fair. She said that she couldnt 
agree that QIC should pay for the cost of the damage caused to Mrs Ps home, as there 
wasnt enough evidence to conclude that the damage was caused by QICs contractors. She 
recommended that QIC reimburse a total of £259.15 to Mrs P. Which were for the 
independent engineers call out charge, as well as the cost of the replacement toilet. 
QIC accepted the view, Mrs P did not. She felt that our investigator had been biased as she 
had relied upon QICs surveyors report, who wasnt present at the time of the event. Rather 
than consider anything that she had said. Mrs P felt that QICs surveyor often wrote untruths, 
which he had done here. She stated that QICs contractors were responsible for the damage 
caused to her home. And asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will partially uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this is likely to be a disappointment to Mrs P, but I hope my 
findings explain why I think this is fair. 
Ive considered all of the evidence and comments from both parties. Mrs P has provided 
detailed comments, all of which I have taken into account. But as an informal dispute 
resolution service, we are tasked to deal with complaints with the minimum of formality. As 
such, it isnt necessary for me to consider each, and every point made. But we do identify 
the main issues of the complaint and address those issues impartially with the evidence 
presented.
The main issue of this complaint is whether there is sufficient evidence to support that the 
further damage caused to Mrs Ps home, was as a result of the contractors that QIC sent to 
deal with the emergency. 
There is no dispute that Mrs P held a home emergency policy from QIC. Again, there is no 
dispute that QIC sent engineers to deal with the emergency. 
Mrs P said that QIC didnt consider her vulnerabilities as it was around eight hours before 
she received a call from the contractor, after she had made a claim. I asked QIC about this 
and it said that it was aware of Mrs Ps personal vulnerabilities and treated the claim as a 
priority. 
I have reviewed the timeline and although, Mrs P reported the leak around 16.00 hours on 
the day, QICs contractor contacted her on that day and attended the next. So, I dont think 
an unreasonable amount of time was taken, before the contractor attended. 
Mrs P said that the first QIC contractor who attended made a feeble attempt to unblock the 
toilet, before leaving and saying that a drainage engineer was required. QIC then sent 
another contractor. I have been provided with a report from that contractor who said that he 
attended, plunged the toilet and noticed that there was water coming from the rear of it, due 
to a dislodged pipe. 
Mrs P said that this contractor used force on the toilet, and this caused what initially was a 
trickle to become a flood. Mrs P said that the contractor told her that the plunging had 
broken the connections on the toilet pipes and thus the resulting deluge and the toilet would 
need lifting from the wall. 
Where there is a dispute between parties as to what took place, we look at the evidence that 
has been presented, on what is likely to have happened. As we are not experts in the field of 
plumbing or drainage issues, we will rely on expert reports. 
I note that Mrs P explained that the first QIC contractor who attended made a feeble 
attempt to unblock the toilet before leaving. I think, as Mrs P has described that the 
contractors work was feeble, its unlikely that he wouldve caused significant damage. 
Further, Mrs P said that the second contractor admitted that he had caused damage to the 
toilet that resulted in flooding of her home. But, having reviewed the report from the second 
contractor, there is no admission of this nature here. QIC sent a surveyor to assess the damage. I note that the surveyor attended Mrs Ps home 
address, took damp readings, photographs and wrote a detailed report. He noted the 
damage but concluded that there was insufficient evidence to support negligence or fault, 
without evidence of the broken toilet or the connectors. 
I asked Mrs P if she had any expert evidence that could support her contention that it was 
QICs contractors who caused the damage. She provided me with a report from the 
contractor who attended and carried out the repair. I note that the contractor has several 
years of experience, and in the report, he said that Mrs P had told him that the toilet had 
been plunged and cleared by a previous contractor. Im satisfied that this was one of QICs 
contractor. 
The report goes on to conclude that after inspection, the toilet soil pan connector had 
become dislodged, likely from the plunging effort.  Im satisfied that Mrs P has now provided 
further expert evidence that indicates that the escape of water was possibly caused by the 
QICs contractor plunging the toilet. 
However, QIC relied upon the policy terms and conditions. And under the general exclusion 
section is states: we will not be responsible for costs arising from or in connection with 
any damage caused by our contractor gaining access to your home or dealing with your 
emergency. From this exclusion, its clear that QIC wont be responsible for any costs 
arising from or in connection with any damage caused, while dealing with the emergency. 
So, even though there is evidence to show that QICs contractor was likely responsible for 
the dislodged toilet pan connector, the policy term excludes QIC from being responsible for  
any damage and the associated costs, caused by its contractor. 
I do, agree that QIC ought to have repaired Mrs Ps toilet, which it didnt do. Consequently, I 
think its fair and reasonable that QIC reimburse Mrs Ps costs, she incurred, as a result of it 
not completing the repair. Those costs relate to the call out charge for the independent 
engineer she used to initially stop the leak. As well as the costs of her having to replace her 
toilet. The total amount of these costs are £259.15. 
Finally, Ive considered whether the goodwill gesture of £150 is fair. QIC did rely on its expert 
as well as the policy terms and conditions and although it was satisfied that it had made the 
correct decision, regarding the further damage, it offered the £150. In the circumstances of 
this complaint, I think the offer was fair. I note that Mrs P refused the offer. But, if she now 
wishes to accept the offer, I advise that she contact QIC to make the arrangements. 
Overall, taking everything into consideration, whilst I understand how disappointed Mrs P will 
be with this outcome, I think that there isnt enough evidence to support that QICs 
contractors were responsible for the further damage caused. But Im satisfied that it should 
reimburse the costs that Mrs P incurred as a result of it not completing the repair at the first 
opportunity. 
Putting things right
So, to put matters right, I direct QIC as indicated below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I partially uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
To put matters right, QIC Europe Limited to:Reimburse Mrs Ps independent contractor costs of £259.15.
QIC Europe Limited must pay the above amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mrs P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman