DRN-4358274
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the conduct of Santander UK Plc after a fraudster applied for, and was 
granted, a loan in his name.
What happened
Mr C was the victim of identity theft. Fraudsters were able to apply for a personal loan in his 
name with Santander. The fraudsters also impersonated Mr C to apply for financial products 
at other businesses.
Santander accepted the loan was fraudulently applied for, but Mr C complained about 
various aspects of its service, conduct and investigation.
Santander acknowledged that it had made some mistakes and offered to pay Mr C £150 in 
compensation. Mr C declined this offer and referred the matter to our service.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. They thought that the compensation 
offered by Santander was fair and didnt recommend that it do anything further. 
Mr C thanked the Investigator for addressing his complaint points but asked for an 
Ombudsman to review the complaint afresh. He said he was particularly frustrated that 
Santander refused to report the matter to the police, despite the Citizens Advice Bureau 
publicly stating that it ought to. 
So, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
In advance of the final decision, I asked our Investigator to obtain some further information 
from Santander. It disclosed that it had not followed its correct process when approving the 
loan because it had failed to ask the applicant for proof of identity. In light of this new 
information, our Investigator asked Santander to increase its offer of compensation from 
£150 to £250. It agreed. But Mr C didnt think the compensation fairly reflected the impact of 
Santanders actions, in particular the fact it continued to write to him about the loan for 
several months after he reported the fraud.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As an informal dispute resolution service, our role is to decide whether a business has made 
an error and, if it has, to instruct that business to put its customer back in the position they 
would have been had that error not been made.
I appreciate that Mr C would like me to review each of his complaint points in some detail. 
But Mr C has made few new substantive arguments since receiving our Investigators view 
and the more recent correspondence. He appears to largely accept what they have said. 
The remaining point in dispute appears to be whether Santanders offer fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C. But I have, in any case, reviewed all of his 
complaint points, which are summarised and addressed below:
1)Santander provided Mr C with the criminals mobile phone number and therefore 
breached its data protection obligations. 
I can only address loss or harm suffered by Mr C, not third parties, so I wont comment on 
the disclosure of the mobile telephone number of the fraudster.
2) Santander refused to inform the police of the fraud, despite the Citizens Advice 
Bureau stating that they were obliged to. By not doing this, Mr C was left powerless 
to bring the fraudsters to justice.
While Mr C may be disappointed that Santander wont report the matter to the police, I have 
no power to compel it to do so. Its also unfortunately true that many frauds which are 
reported to, and recorded by, the police arent investigated. And, I cant fairly say that 
Santanders failure to report the matter to the police has caused Mr C any material harm.
3)Santander appears to accept frauds, and the associated distress this causes to its 
customers, as part of normal business. 
Again, I can only consider Mr Cs distress, not the distress of others. But, in any case, 
Santander cannot realistically prevent every act of fraud from taking place. It has to strike a 
balance, like any other business, between additional checks and security and allowing 
customers to access banking facilities in a convenient and timely fashion. In this case, it 
acknowledges that it did not follow its own procedure for granting the loan. So, I accept this 
particular instance may have been avoidable. 
4)Santander should have had Mr Cs mobile number and email address on file, but it 
failed to detect that different contact details had been provided. It also did not 
conduct proper affordability checks and, if it had done, the fraud would have been 
revealed because its unlikely the fraudsters would have had access to accurate 
information about his financial situation. He also has received no credible explanation 
as to why he only found out about the debt when he was being chased for repayment 
and not at the point of application. He suggests that email only correspondence was 
chosen by the fraudsters, and he argues that Santander allowing this as a possibility 
is a significant oversight  given the way it has enabled fraud.
Mr Cs account with Santander was closed more than six years before the fraud. Ive seen 
no evidence that Santander still held Mr Cs email address and mobile number and would 
have been aware of any discrepancy. But even if it had held this information, its not unusual 
for people to change email addresses and mobile numbers over time. 
Santander are, to a certain extent, entitled to rely on the information provided by an applicant 
when deciding whether to lend. I wouldnt always expect it to verify income and expenditure. 
Other ways of verifying creditworthiness are available to the bank  such as cross-
referencing information with credit reference agencies, which can also provide it with 
information about the indebtedness and payment history of the individual. In relation to correspondence, the evidence Ive seen suggests the communication 
preference was for mail, rather than email. Santanders records suggest that a letter was 
sent to Mr C on 13 March 2021. I cant conclusively say that it was sent, and it does not 
appear to have been received, but it doesnt appear that the fraudsters chose to 
communicate only by email. 
5) Santander retained Mr Cs personal information longer than it ought to have done for 
data protection purposes. The bank used that information to confirm Mr Cs identity. 
Had they not retained this information, the fraudsters wouldnt have been able to 
open the account so easily. 
Theres no evidence that previously held details were used to confirm Mr Cs identity and 
Santander have denied that this is the case. Instead, as is common, the bank used 
information held by credit reference agencies to verify information it had been given. 
6) The time taken to deal with the matter has been excessive  which increased the risk 
of other credit providers being defrauded. 
I agree that the time taken to investigate the fraud was longer than necessary. But, again, I 
can only recognise the impact this had on Mr C, not the losses to other credit providers. 
7) & 8) None of the parties involved took the time to respond to the majority of the 
questions raised, including Santander in its final response letter.
I understand Mr C was disappointed with the response received from Santander  it didnt 
cover off responses to his questions at all. I think most of those questions have been 
addressed during the investigation of the complaint (for example, it is known that the 
compensation cheque wasnt sent at all, rather than being sent to the fraudster). Mr C also 
seems to accept that some of the correspondence was simply down to human error.
 
But, while I wouldnt expect Santanders final response letter to go into great detail in 
addressing the points raised by Mr C, I think it could have provided more of a response to 
those concerns, at least in broad terms and at a high level. 
Overall, its apparent that Mr C has not just his own interests in mind, but a sense of the 
wider public good. As a consequence of that, some of the issues raised by Mr C are about 
broader issues relating to the way Santander, and other financial businesses, deal with 
fraud. Those issues are largely beyond the scope of this complaint and service (as they are 
regulatory in nature). I must limit my considerations to the impact that any mistakes have 
(rather than might have) had on Mr C. 
Since our Investigators view, it has come to light that Santander should not have approved 
the loan without requesting identity documents. Its likely that, had it done so, Mr C would 
have been saved a good deal of distress and inconvenience. But I think its important to note 
that the fraudsters applied for financial products in his name at several different businesses. 
I understand that some applications were approved, others were declined, but not because 
fraud was suspected. Mr C understandably complained to these businesses, as well as the 
credit reference agencies which recorded information about the fraudulent applications. So, I 
need to consider the impact of Santanders actions in circumstances where Mr C would, in 
any case, be deeply concerned about how his personal information was being used. In other 
words: Santanders actions were only one part of a series of events which were both 
distressing and inconvenient for Mr C. I must also remember that the fraudsters had a 
significant role in causing Mr C distress. Taking all of that into account, I think that the 
increased compensation offered by Santander is sufficient to recognise the role it played and 
I wont be asking it to increase its offer. My final decision
Santander has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that Santander UK Plc should pay Mr C £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman