DRN-3241962
The complaint
Miss W complains Future Finance Loan Corporation Limited (Future Finance) irresponsibly 
approved her for a private student loan.
What happened
Miss W was approved for the below loan by Future Finance:
Date Capital Amount In study repayment Out of study 
repayment
August 2015 £3,500 £30 (for 36 months) £64 approx.
Miss W complains Future Finance did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
before approving the loan. She says she was struggling financially at the time of the 
application and further checks would have shown this. Miss W says Future Finance acted 
irresponsibly by approving the loan.
Future Finance disagreed with Miss Ws complaint. It maintained that it had completed 
proportionate checks and used predicted future income. It highlighted that the purpose of the 
loan was to help Miss W with her living expenses whilst she was completing her studies. It 
maintained that it had lent responsibly.
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional decision. I set my provisional findings as 
below:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending as well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good 
industry practice on our website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this 
complaint.
Bearing in mind the rules, regulations, guidance and good industry practice I think 
there are three key questions for me to think about while looking at Miss Ws 
complaint.
These are:
1. Did Future Finance complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself Miss W would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would those checks have shown that Miss W wouldve been 
able to do so?
2. Did Future Finance complete a review of Miss Ws circumstances once the in 
study period had ended?
a. If so, did this show Miss W had secured a job in line with the salary 
expectations and repayments were likely affordable/sustainable?
b. If not, would those checks have shown Miss W had secured a job in 
line with the forecasted salary and could meet the repayments in an 
affordable/sustainable way?
3. Did Future Finance act unreasonably in any other way?
Ill deal with each in turn.
Did Future Finance complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
Miss W would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so did it make a fair 
decision to lend?
Future Finance needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Miss 
W. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Future Finance lent 
required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. 
These checks needed to assess Miss Ws ability to afford the loan and repay it 
sustainably over its term without causing her financial difficulties. There isnt a set list 
of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, taking into 
account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well as 
their circumstances. 
And it isnt sufficient for Future Finance to just complete proportionate checks  it 
must also consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair 
lending decision. This includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and 
ensuring repayments can be made sustainably without having to borrow further. 
Under the relevant regulations at the time, Future Finance was entitled to rely on 
expected future income for Miss W when making this assessment. Provided that this 
assessment was appropriate (bearing in mind what these regulations required in 
terms of proportionality) and there was an appropriate exercise of forbearance in 
relation to any initial payments.
The loan was taken in August 2015; and was for a total of £3,500. The purpose of the 
loan was to help Miss W with her cost of living expenses as she completed her 
further education studies. Miss W says at the time of the application she was 
struggling financially. She explained she applied to Future Finance as the separate 
student loan she had was not enough to cover her expected costs. Miss W says at 
the time of the application she was reliant on her overdraft and other forms of credit.
Future Finance says it completed proportionate checks in this instance. It says it 
completed a credit search on Miss W; and verified some of the information via a 
payslip. 
The credit file showed that Miss W was indeed using her overdraft. At the time of the 
application Miss W had an overdraft limit of £1,500 and the credit report reflected that 
she was utilising around £1,000 of this.
The credit report also showed Miss W had two existing store cards / mail order 
accounts. These combined had a total credit limit of £500. The checks which Future Finance completed at the time demonstrated that Miss W did not have an 
outstanding balance on these; and the repayment history had been kept up to date. 
Miss W declared that she was employed at the point of the application and provided 
payslips to verify this amount. This showed she was earning a small amount per 
month (around £340 per month). 
Future Finance then went on to calculate Miss Ws future expected income. It says 
based on the information it had at the time that Miss W would be earning 
approximately £1,400 per month. Future Finance also calculated her expected 
outgoings, including her increased payments for this loan; and deemed that Miss W 
would have sufficient disposable income to meet this sustainably. It says based on 
these checks the loan appeared affordable. 
Ive considered Future Finances arguments; and in this instance Im currently 
minded to say that I agree with it. 
Im mindful that the amount being borrowed here, while not insignificant, wasnt for an 
especially large amount. This meant that the in study and out of study repayments 
remained relatively low. Therefore, the checks that Future Finance had to do needed 
to be proportionate to these amounts. As such Im currently satisfied proportionate 
checks in this instance wouldve included obtaining a reasonable understanding of 
Miss Ws circumstances. 
As set out above Future Finance checked Miss Ws credit file; and verified some of 
the information via a payslip. The credit file didnt show any substantial negative 
markers; and whilst she had some credit (for a low amount) this was being well 
maintained. I acknowledge that Miss W was utilising her overdraft, but I dont find this 
uncommon in similar circumstances  she was after all studying and only working 
part time. Im not persuaded that Miss W being in her overdraft would necessarily 
alone prevent Future Finance from lending to her.
As part of its checks, Future Finance also considered Miss Ws likely future income. 
Future Finance has provided a number of detailed materials in relation to its business 
model to our service previously as well as on this case. Ive taken this information 
into account when considering the reasonableness of Future Finances prediction. 
For the sake of clarity Future Finance says it uses information from third parties 
(including the educational institutions which have been applied for) to gather the 
likely salary. It says it uses this information; as well as known credit commitments to 
conduct its future affordability assessment.
Ive considered this information and in this instance, Im satisfied its prediction of 
Miss Ws affordability was proportionate. In this instance, based on Miss Ws 
university and field of study, it predicted her likely income after gradation to be 
around £17,500 per year. This would give Miss W an average monthly income of 
around £1,400 per month. Considering what Future Finance has said about Miss Ws 
course, this figure seems reasonable. It may be different if the salary predicted was 
unreasonably high, but Im satisfied that a salary of £17,500 per year is in line with 
most graduate starting salaries.
Future Finances calculations for Miss Ws future outgoings also appears reasonable. 
It has taken into account Miss Ws known expenses and factored in the increased out 
of study repayments. So, whilst this calculation is not fool-proof it does take into 
consideration the known commitments that Miss W had. And again, considering the 
relatively low value of the loan and repayments Im satisfied it was proportionate in this instance. 
In addition to the above, I also note that this loan was being used to help Miss W with 
her living expenses whilst she was studying. So Future Finance was entitled to take 
this into account when considering any expenses she had during the period Miss W 
was studying. 
So based on this, Im currently satisfied that Future Finance completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks in this instance. 
It follows that as Im satisfied that proportionate checks were completed, that Im also 
satisfied it made a fair decision to lend. 
The information which Future Finance gathered at the time demonstrated that Miss 
W would likely be able to afford the repayments during and after her studies had 
been completed. It had a reasonable prediction of what her future income and 
outgoings would be; and these demonstrated the loan was likely affordable.
Future Finance was entitled to rely on the information which Miss W provided it, as 
there doesnt appear to be any contradictory information which suggested it 
shouldnt. 
So Im satisfied it made a fair decision to lend.
Did Future Finance complete a review of Miss Ws circumstances once the in-study 
period had ended?
As the bulk of the repayments on this loan were always going to be made once Miss 
W completed her course and Future Finance could only estimate what Miss Ws 
circumstances would be like at this time, it was required to ensure that once the out 
of study period had begun, that Miss W was able to meet the increased monthly 
repayments.
Miss W was due to begin her out of study repayments in October 2018. The out of 
study repayment increased to a total of around £64. 
Future Finance says it contacted Miss W on multiple occasions in the lead up to the 
increase in her payments. Future Finance says this is its standard practice; including 
sending email reminders three months prior to the increase payments. Future 
Finance says it also contacted Miss W two weeks and one week prior to the increase 
repayments to confirm that she could make the repayments. 
During these interactions Miss W explained she would make a manual payment for a 
missed August payment; and would like to set up a direct debit for the future 
repayments. The notes from Future Finance suggest that Miss W asked for the 
payments to be made on a specific date as this was after she would receive her 
salary (suggesting she was employed at this time). 
Future Finance say there was no indication from Miss W which suggests she was 
unable to meet the necessary increase in repayments. 
Ive considered Future Finance arguments; and I agree with them in this instance. 
From the information Ive seen so far Future Finance made reasonable attempts to 
contact Miss W prior to the increase in payments. The information it sent to Miss W, 
as well as the contact it had with her, demonstrates that Miss W was likely aware there would be an increase in the repayments.
Miss W says she struggled to afford the loan. But Ive not seen any information which 
demonstrates she made Future Finance aware of her financial difficulties either at the 
start of the increased payments, or later on. Future Finance says Miss W has made 
all of the repayments to date; and Ive not seen any information so far that suggests 
Future Finance shouldve been aware of any issues Miss W mayve had.
So Im currently minded to say Future Finance did enough to understand if Miss W 
could afford the increase in repayments. 
Did Future Finance act unfairly in any other way?
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im satisfied Future Finance has handled the 
remainder of Miss Ws account fairly. 
Miss W has said in her complaint to our service that Future Finance has charged 
high interest; and that she will end up paying significantly more than she borrowed. 
Whilst this may be true; I cant say that Miss W was not made aware of the cost of 
the loan and the applicable interest. Looking at the statement of account I can see 
Future Finance has applied the interest rate correctly and fairly to Miss W.
I asked both parties to respond with any further information and/or comments they wished to 
provide. Future Finance agreed with the provisional decision and did not provide any further 
information.
Miss W disagreed with the provisional decision. She explained that she believed the loan 
had been irresponsibly lent. She explained that at the time of the application she was heavily 
reliant on her student overdraft and was earning a low income. She has reiterated that she 
had no disposable income to meet the necessary repayments; and that she was 
unemployed whilst she was at university. 
Miss W also set out her disagreement with the way Future Finance completed its 
affordability assessment and in particular that it used predicted income to complete this.
She explained that she believed Future Finance shouldve known she was struggling to meet 
the repayments as she requested a further top up loan in October 2015 (which was 
declined). She also explained that Future Finance did not provide any forbearance support 
either. She remains of the opinion that a fair outcome would be for her to repay the capital 
balance borrowed only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered all of Miss Ws submissions including her initial complaint as well 
as her most recent submissions (including those she has submitted since my provisional 
decision was issued). Having done so, whilst I acknowledge the strength of her feeling, Im 
satisfied the outcome in my provisional decision should remain. I appreciate this will come as 
a disappointment to Miss W.
Miss W has reiterated that she believed her financial circumstances at the time of the 
application were such that providing lending to her was irresponsible. She has explained that 
she was struggling financially when she applied for the loan, including the fact that she was using credit and relying on her overdraft. She also explained that she had a low income 
through part time work. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that Future Finance completed 
proportionate checks. These checks did show that Miss W was using her overdraft and that 
she had exiting forms of credit. Future Finance also took details of her employment at that 
point. So, Im satisfied it was aware of Miss Ws circumstances at the time. 
Whilst Miss W mayve been using her overdraft and other forms of credit, Im still persuaded 
that this in itself wouldnt be enough for it to be considered that Future Finance lent 
irresponsibly. Ultimately the financial situation which Miss W wasnt unusual considering the 
situation and purpose of the loan. Im also mindful that the purpose of this loan was to help 
Miss W with her living expenses whilst she was studying; and as such some of the issues 
she has highlighted were being addressed by this loan (including aiding individuals who 
arent working due to studying full time). 
Miss W has also highlighted her concern over the way Future Finance completed its 
affordability assessment -namely that it uses predicted future income. Ive considered this 
argument, but Im not persuaded by it. Future Finances business model is based on this 
premise and it is a clear feature of the product it is providing. Importantly, the rules and 
regulations which applied at the time also enabled Future Finance to operate in this way too. 
I explained in the provisional decision how I was satisfied that Future Finance had completed 
Miss Ws future income and outgoings reasonably, using external data and third-party 
sources. I was also satisfied that the predicted income was reasonable and in line with 
expectations with graduate salaries.
Miss W also says that Future Finance shouldve realised she was struggling in 2015 when 
she applied for a top up loan and was declined. Whilst I understand her argument; it does 
not have a bearing on the initial decision for Future Finance to provide her the initial loan. 
Ive explained above in the provisional decision why I was satisfied Future Finance 
completed proportionate checks and made a fair decision to lend. And Ive not been 
presented with any information which would alter this opinion. I appreciate this will come as 
a disappointment to Miss W.
In terms of the out of study repayments, Miss W says that Future Finance did not offer 
sufficient forbearance measures. She explained that she continued to struggle to meet the 
increased repayments and that she had to take out short term high cost credit and other 
loans to help make these repayments. She explained that Future Finance made no attempts 
to call her.
I explained in my provisional decision that Future Finance says it contacted Miss W on 
multiple occasions in the lead up to the increase in her payments. Future Finance sent email 
reminders three months prior to the increase payments. It also contacted Miss W two weeks 
and one week prior to the increase repayments to confirm that she could make the 
repayments. 
I explained there was no evidence that Miss W had made Future Finance aware she was 
struggling financially at this point, and the information which was provided didnt demonstrate 
Future Finance ought to have been reasonably aware either. Miss W in her recent 
submission has explained that Future Finance ought to have known because of her credit 
file and the declined application in October 2015. Im not persuaded by this; ultimately Future 
Finance made attempts to contact Miss W and inform her the repayments were increasing. 
Ive not seen information which suggests Miss W made it aware she was struggling, and/or 
that there was sufficient information to suggest she could not meet the required £60 
repayment. The information which was provided demonstrated that Miss W made her repayments on time. 
I acknowledge that Miss W will be disappointed by the outcome of this decision. I can assure 
her I have considered all of her arguments and the information she has provided to our 
service. But for the reasons outline in my provisional decision and for those above; Im 
satisfied this complaint should not be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman