DRN-3419256
The complaint
Mr W complains National Savings and Investments (NS&I) provided him with poor service.
What happened
Mr W called NS&I to ask for details about his holdings. Mr W wasnt happy with the service 
he received, and the call was cut off.
After waiting for a call back, and not receiving one, Mr W called again and spoke to a 
different adviser. This call went much better and Mr W got the information he needed.
Unhappy with the first call, Mr W logged a complaint. NS&I sent Mr W a final response and 
paid £30 to compensate for the call.
Mr W called NS&I, to speak to the complaint handler who sent the final response. Mr W 
wasnt able to speak to the complaints handler and wasnt happy with the call.
Mr W called back and spoke to the complaint handler. The total compensation for the first 
call was increased to £80. But Mr W was only offered a further £20 for the second call.
Following a further call to NS&I £140 was offered. Mr W felt an offer of £200 would be fairer, 
£80 for the first call and £120 for the second. Mr W felt the second call was worse than the 
first. NS&I didnt increase its offer and Mr W brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things and thought NS&I had already done enough to fairly 
resolve Mr Ws complaint. Mr W didnt agree with the investigators assessment and asked 
for an ombudsman to review things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about whether I have the power to look at all of Mr Ws complaint. 
Some of Mr Ws complaint is about complaint handling by NS&I. Complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity.
But I can consider complaint handling if its ancillary to a regulated activity. 
Mr Ws initial call was about his holdings, and other calls, and service, flow from this initial 
call. I think any complaint handling aspects of Mr Ws complaint are ancillary to a regulated 
activity, the provision of account information.
Id like to assure Mr W Ive listened to the five calls with NS&I along with the call he had with 
the investigator when they gave their assessment. Ive also read all the emails Mr W has 
sent this service in relation to this complaint.
In his first call to NS&I Mr W asks for his total holdings and bond numbers. The adviser tells 
Mr W she cant give him bond numbers. Mr W says hes been given bond numbers on a 
phone call before, and the adviser then agrees and says she can.
The adviser begins to read out the bond numbers and start dates. The adviser gives Mr W a 
bond number he doesnt recognise. Mr W asks for some clarity and the adviser tells Mr W 
the bonds been cashed in.
Mr W asks why hes being given details of a closed bond and asks to speak to the advisers 
manager. The call then disconnects, and no call back is made by the NS&I adviser.
Mr W calls back later and gets the information he needed.
Mr W logs a complaint and receives a final response paying £30 compensation for the call. 
Mr W calls NS&I to ask if the call was listened to and let NS&I know he doesnt feel the 
compensation payment is enough.
Mr W speaks to an adviser and explains the automated telephony system has cut him off 
twice while trying to get through to the right department. Mr W asks the adviser if the 
department is open and doesnt get an answer.
Mr W doesnt have the final response with him but gives his NS&I number. The adviser 
doesnt seem to be able to find the complaint or give much in the way of information about 
the complaint itself or Mr Ws options.
The adviser coughs, or clears his throat, during the call. The adviser says hell speak to his 
manager about what Mr W can do about his complaint and Mr W specifically asks not to be 
put on hold for too long. Mr Ws then put on hold for eight minutes.
When the adviser comes back on the call he tells Mr W to write in. This isnt the right 
information, and Mr W challenges this. Mr W then tells the adviser hed like to log a 
complaint about them, and the adviser asks why.
Mr W says hes thinking about terminating the call and the adviser says he will instead, and 
disconnects the call.
Mr W calls back the next day and speaks to the person who sent the final response. The 
complaint handler agrees he missed something and increases the compensation from £30 to 
£80, to compensate for the call and because he missed part of Mr Ws complaint.
Im satisfied the complaint handler listened to the first call.
Mr W specifically asks for the second call to be considered in the same complaint as the first 
call. Initially the complaint handler says he cant, then changes his mind and says he will 
look at both calls under the same complaint. Im satisfied Mr W wanted both calls looked at 
under the same complaint.
The complaint handler listens to the second call and offers a further £20. It seems the 
complaint handler has a limit of £100 he can offer as total compensation. Mr W doesnt think 
this is fair and organises a call with the complaint handlers manager.
The manager calls Mr W and increases the offer to £130, then a final offer of £140. The 
manager says they havent listened to the call, but have read the complaint handlers notes.Mr W feels this isnt right, hes been paid £80 for the first call and now just £60 for the 
second, and everyone seems to agree the second call is worse than the first.
The manager explains the £80 initially offered is for the poor service on the first call and 
because NS&I made an error in its final response. The manager feels Mr W is being paid 
more for the second call.
I agree the service provided by NS&I, in both calls, wasnt good enough. And I agree Mr W 
should be compensated for both calls.
Mr W says since NS&I has decided the first call was worth £80 its illogical the second call is 
paid less.
But I wont look to add a monetary value to each individual piece of poor service from a 
business. Instead, Ill look at the complaint as a whole  both calls  and decide what I think 
is a fair amount to compensate Mr W.
So I wont divide up the calls, and I wont look at what NS&I offered for the first call and then 
look for a larger amount for the second call. 
And since theres very little disagreement about what happened, the only thing for me to 
decide is whether I think £140 compensation is enough, in total, to compensate Mr W.
The first call to NS&I wasnt a good call. Mr W was told the wrong thing on at least two 
occasions and the call was terminated right after he asked to speak to a manager. I cant be 
certain the call was disconnected by the adviser, but I dont think its unreasonable for Mr W 
to expect a call back.
I dont think this call resulted in a financial loss to Mr W. But the call was frustrating and a 
waste of Mr Ws time, its fair compensation is paid.
The second call was a worse call. Again, I cant see any financial loss, but the call was rude, 
didnt answer Mr Ws questions properly and was terminated in a very poor way. Again, its a 
frustrating call, and adds to the annoyance Mr W already felt, its fair compensation is paid.
I understand Mr Ws points about dividing up the compensation, and NS&I placing a value 
on one call, then a lesser value on the next. I hope its clear this isnt how Ive approached 
this complaint.
I also understand Mr Ws strength of feeling about the service he received.
But, looking at both calls overall, and the impact these calls had on Mr W, I think £140 is a 
fair and reasonable amount to pay Mr W.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint because I think NS&I has already 
compensated him a fair and reasonable amount for the poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022. 
Chris RussOmbudsman