DRN-3294331
The complaint
Mrs B complains that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) declined her claim for accidental damage on her home insurance following an 
unauthorised party arranged by a guest at her holiday home.  
What happened
Mrs B had home insurance with NFU to cover a property she owns and rents out as a 
holiday let. In November 2020 she made a claim after a guest hosted an unauthorised party 
with over 100 attendees. This had led to significant damage across the property and resulted 
in the police being called due to a breach of the Covid-19 regulations at the time. 
NFU considered the claim but subsequently declined it. It initially said that as the damage 
was caused by a paying guest, this would be excluded from policy cover. However Mrs B 
pointed out she had an extension for holiday lets that meant the exclusion didnt apply. 
Following this NFU reassessed the claim but maintained its declinature. It said it believed the 
damage to be malicious, rather than accidental, so the exclusion would still apply even with 
the holiday let extension.
Mrs B didnt think this was fair. She disagreed that the damage was malicious and said it 
was caused due to the high number of attendees, so would more reasonably be described 
as accidental. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said she thought the damage was most reasonably described as malicious so thought NFU 
had applied the policy exclusion fairly.
Mrs B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this dispute comes down to whether the damage is more reasonably described 
as malicious or accidental. If the damage is accidental then the holiday let extension to the 
policy means that the claim would be covered under the policy. However if the damage is 
malicious then the following exclusion would apply:
What is not insured:
Any loss caused: by YOU, YOUR FAMILY, any tenant, lodger or paying guest'
I need to decide if NFU has acted fairly by defining the damage as malicious and therefore 
relying on this exclusion to decline the claim.
The policy doesnt define what it considers malicious damage to be. However this service 
generally considers damage to be malicious if the person who caused the damage intended 
to do harm. 
Ive considered the description of the series of events provided by Mrs B as well as the 
photos of the damage to the property. And Im more persuaded that the damage has been 
caused deliberately and maliciously. 
The photos show severe damage to the ceiling in one of the rooms with insulation that looks 
like its been forcibly removed. And a TV that has been torn from the wall in another. When 
considering how this damage would be inflicted it seems highly improbable that it would 
have been done accidentally. The damage appears to have been inflicted with force and 
therefore deliberately. As those who inflicted it would have done so knowing their actions 
would cause damage, I am therefore more persuaded that there was malicious intent. 
Therefore I think NFU has acted fairly by applying the exclusion under the relevant section of 
the policy.
Ive considered Mrs Bs comments about the damage being carried out by attendees of the 
party who werent paying to be there. She says they therefore wouldnt meet the policy 
description of a paying guest. However I dont think this is enough to say the exclusion 
wouldnt apply. The attendees of the party were invited by Mrs Bs paying guest and 
therefore its reasonable that those invited were the responsibility of the paying guest. If they 
were trespassers who had entered the property without consent, I may take a different view. 
But Ive seen no evidence that this was the case. So as they were invited by the paying 
guest, I think its reasonable that he would be responsible for their actions and its therefore 
fair for NFU to apply the exclusion.
Based on this, Im persuaded that the damage was most likely caused maliciously rather 
than accidentally. I therefore think NFU has acted fairly by applying the exclusion for 
malicious damage in this case. 
I want to add that my decision is in no way intended to apportion blame on to Mrs B for what 
happened. It seems Mrs B did all she could to ensure her property was appropriately let out 
and that her guests followed the Covid-19 regulations at the time. I can see Mrs B has been 
left in a very difficult situation as a result of the extensive damage and I sympathise with her 
greatly. However in coming to my decision, I can only consider the actions of NFU and 
decide on whether it has acted fairly. And on considering everything, I think it has. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman