DRN-3846532
The complaint
A limited company, which I will call R, has complained about the handling of a business 
interruption claim under its policy with certain underwriters at Society of Lloyds. 
Mr C, as a director of R, has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in November 2022, the main parts of which are 
copied below: 
R made a claim under the policy after its business was affected by the Governments 
response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The underwriters initially turned down Rs claim as they 
didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of the claim. However, following 
the Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Business 
Interruption Insurance test case it accepted that the policy provided cover and asked for 
further details to validate Rs claim.
The underwriters made an offer in May 2021 having deducted an amount in respect of 
furlough payments Rs staff had received. R complained about the amount deducted for 
furlough payments and the delay in settling the claim. I understand an agreed settlement of 
£79,000 was paid in June 2021 but R still complained about the delay, which had a 
significant impact on the business. 
The underwriters said it was not possible to proceed with the claim until after the Supreme 
Court judgement had been made and so any delay was outside its control. However, the 
underwriter did acknowledge that there was a delay in calculating the settlement figure after 
R had provide documentation in support of the claim. The underwriters offered £200 
compensation for this. 
One of our investigators looked into Rs complaint. He concluded that the underwriters were 
entitled to deduct the furlough payments but that the underwriters should have applied 
interest on the settlement payment. 
R has accepted the Investigators assessment but the underwriters have not. 
The underwriters said that it didnt think it should be required to make any interest payment 
for the period prior to the Supreme Court judgment, given that it said the FCA had given 
insurers permission to await the outcome of the test case before deciding liability and settling 
any claims. It says unless interest is not applied to the period of time waiting for the test case 
to be decided, it is being penalised for acting in accordance with the FCAs guidance. 
As the Investigator has been unable to resolve the complaint, it has been referred to me. 
In the meantime, R has told us it took a bounce-back loan (BBL) of £20,000 in February 
2021, due to the delay in receiving settlement of the claim. R says it took a payment holiday, 
which meant it did not have to start repaying the loan until 18 February 2022. The loan was 
at 0% interest until the first anniversary of the loan in February 2022, when it accrued at 
2.5% per annum. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The only issue remaining for me to determine is whether R suffered a further loss due to the 
delay in dealing with the claim. 
My role is to consider what a business might or might not have done wrong and to decide on 
compensation if things didnt happen as they should have, that is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. 
Whilst I appreciate the difficulties insurers faced with claims of this nature, the clarity 
provided by the courts in the test case does not alter the fact that R had a valid claim and 
that the underwriters decision to decline this in 2020 and was incorrect. 
Our rules allow me to make, amongst other things, a money and interest award for what I 
consider to be fair compensation if a complaint is determined in the favour of the 
complainant. In this case, my decision is based on what I think is fair compensation to put R 
back in the position it would have been in if the underwriters hadnt made an error in turning 
down its claim. As an incorrect decision was made on the claim, I think it is reasonable to 
say that this should not have happened, and that Rs claim should instead have been met at 
the time it was made. 
In addition, the [Supreme Court] judgement was made in January 2021 and settlement not 
paid until June 2021. By that stage, the losses had been crystalised, so I consider it would 
be reasonable to have taken around a month to settle a claim of this nature. Therefore I think 
there was a further delay that could have been avoided. 
Because the claim was not met when it should have been, the underwriters have been in 
possession of the claim amount and R has been left without these funds that it otherwise 
would have had. As R has been without this money, I believe that it is fair and reasonable to 
consider this to be a financial loss that R has incurred as a result of the incorrect rejection of 
the claim. 
Ive noted the underwriters point regarding the FCA guidance, but I am unaware of any 
guidance from the FCA that indicates that interest should not be added to the settlement of a 
valid claim in circumstances such as this.
For the reasons set out above, I think there was a financial loss as a result of the delay in 
paying the claim. In order to put that right, I consider that interest should be calculated on the 
sums that were due to R. 
R first made the claim in March 2020 before the losses had been incurred. If the 
underwriters had accepted the claim as I think it should have done, I think it would have 
been reasonable for them to have made interim payments starting a month after the claim 
was first made and on a monthly basis, as the claim would have been ongoing. So, interest 
at our usual rate should be paid from one month after each months loss until February 2021. 
In February 2021, R took out a loan for £20,000 at 0% interest. As R had taken this loan to 
cover the settlement the underwriters should have paid, R wasnt without that amount of 
money during that time. So I think the interest the underwriters should pay should continue on the full claim amount less the value of the loan (so approximately £59,000) until the date 
of settlement in June 2021. As R received £20,000 no interest is payable on this amount 
from the date it was received. And R could have repaid the loan once it did receive 
settlement from the underwriters, which was before the interest started to accrue on the 
loan. 
For the avoidance of doubt, this is in addition to the £200 the underwriters have already 
offered.
My provisional decision 
For the reasons set out above, I intend to uphold this complaint against Society of Lloyds 
and require the underwriters to: 
Pay R the following amounts: 
1. interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum on the whole settlement amount for the first 
months amount from one month after the claim was made, the second months 
amount from two months after the claim was made and so on until the date R 
received the BBL loan amount in February 2021; 
2. from the date R received the loan amount in February 2021, the underwriters should 
pay interest at 8% simple per annum on the amount of the claim settlement, less the 
amount of the loan, until the date of settlement in June 2021; and 
3. pay the £200 compensation already offered, if it has not already been paid.  
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered before I issue my final decision. 
R has confirmed it accepts my provisional decision. 
The underwriters do not accept my provisional decision. They say that the FCA took steps to 
ensure that insurers involved in the test case were not penalised for voluntarily taking part. It 
has quoted a footnote from the Business Interruption Insurance test case framework 
agreement between the FAC and the insurers that had agreed to take part, dated 31 May 
2020. The underwriters say this was added as insurers were mindful of possible claims for 
damages for late payment of insurance claims under s13A of the Insurance Act 2015: 
For the avoidance of doubt, the FCA has no intention to retrospectively apply a judgment in 
the test case. The question of whether an insurer has acted reasonably and fairly and 
generally in accordance with its regulatory obligations in rejecting claims will be a matter to 
be judged against the circumstances which existed at the time. 
The underwriters also refer to a recent case Quadra Commodities v XL Insurance & 
Company SE & Others [2022] EWHC 431 (Comm), which it says provides that insurers are 
entitled to reasonable time to investigate a claim and just because an insurer disputed cover 
and lost, did not make their actions unreasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the Quadra case, the claimant asked the court to find that their insurance claim should be 
met and to award damages for late payment of the claim, in accordance with s13A of the 
Insurance Act 2015. 
S13A of the Insurance Act 2015 says: 
(1) It is an implied term of every contract of insurance that if the insured makes a 
claim under the contract, the insurer must pay any sums due in respect of the claim 
within a reasonable time.
(2) A reasonable time includes a reasonable time to investigate and assess the 
claim.
(3) What is reasonable will depend on all the relevant circumstances  but the 
following are examples of things which may need to be taken into account
(a) The type of insurance,
(b) The size and complexity of the claim,
(c) Compliance with any relevant statutory or regulatory rules or 
guidance,
(d) Factors outside the insurer's control.
(4) If the insurer shows that there were reasonable grounds for disputing the 
claim (whether as to the amount of any sum payable, or as to whether anything at 
all is payable) 
(a) the insurer does not breach the term implied by subsection (1) 
merely by failing to pay the claim (or the affected part of it) while the 
dispute is continuing, but
(b) the conduct of the insurer in handling the claim may be a relevant 
factor in deciding whether that term was breached and, if so, when.
The Court in the Quadra case determined that the insurer in that case should meet the 
insurance claim but that it had a defence under s13A (4) of the Insurance Act 2015, above, 
as it had reasonable grounds to reject the claim initially. 
The underwriters of Rs policy say they also had reasonable grounds to initially refuse Rs 
claim and waiting until the end of the test case. 
However, I do not think the Quadra case or the comments in the agreement with the FCA  
change my provisional findings. I did not propose to award damages, I provisionally 
determined that interest should be added to the claim amount to reflect the fact that R was 
without these monies. As stated in my provisional decision, the FCA has not to my 
knowledge, provided any guidance that interest should not be added to the settlement of a 
valid claim in circumstances such as this.
And s13A (5) of the Insurance Act states: 
(5) Remedies (for example, damages) available for breach of the term implied in 
subsection (1) are in addition to and distinct from  
(a) any right to enforce payment of the sums due, and
(b) any right to interest on those sums (whether under the contract, another 
enactment, at the courts discretion or otherwise).I am required to determine what I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is, 
having regard to all the circumstances. Having done so, I consider the interest payment is 
required to properly indemnify R for its financial loss and put it back in the position it would 
have been in had the loss not occurred. It is not a penalty for the underwriter but reflects the 
fact they were in possession of monies which should have been paid to R, regardless of the 
reasons for the delay in payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint against Society of Lloyds and require 
the underwriters to pay R the following amounts: 
1. interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum on the whole settlement amount for the 
    first months amount from one month after the claim was made, the second       
    months amount from two months after the claim was made and so on until the 
    date R received the BBL loan amount in February 2021. 
2. From the date R received the loan amount in February 2021, the underwriters   
    should pay interest at 8% simple per annum on the amount of the claim 
    settlement, less the amount of the loan, until the date of settlement in June 2021. 
3. Pay the £200 compensation already offered, if it has not already been paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman