DRN-3644169
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd has unfairly 
declined a claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M bought a puppy and took out a pet insurance policy in November 2021. During a visit 
that month the vet carried out a full examination and said everything was clear with no 
concerns. 
The following month Mrs M used a voucher offer to have another check-up at a different vet. 
A heart murmur was detected so she returned to her normal vet a couple of days later for 
another diagnosis. 
Her vet confirmed the pets heart murmur. But the vet wrote on the medical notes that theyd 
been unable to carry out a full check during their last visit as the pet had been too unsettled. 
Because of the vets comments the insurer refused to cover the cost of treating the murmur 
and it has also imposed an endorsement on the policy moving forwards. 
Casualty said the pets clinical history showed a visit in November 2021 just after the policy 
had started. A murmur was noted about a month later and the pet was checked again two 
days afterwards. The vets notes showed the pet had been very wriggly on the previous 
occasion and hadnt been easy to examine, so the vet said the presence of a murmur 
couldnt be ruled out during the last visit.
Casualty said the policy didnt provide cover where conditions or signs and symptoms were 
present before the policy started or within the first 14 days of the policy start. So Casualty 
was unable to provide cover for the condition being claimed for. And any future claims with 
respect to the respiratory system and heart conditions would also be excluded.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied with Casualtys response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Having considered all the available evidence our 
investigator felt Casualty had acted unfairly in assuming there was a heart murmur within 14 
days of the policy start. He didnt think there was evidence to support this. So he said 
Casualty should cover Mrs Ms claim (plus 8% simple interest), remove the exclusions added 
to the policy and pay Mrs M £100 compensation for the distress caused.
Casualty didnt agree with our investigator. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
Casualty said the vets notes made it clear the murmur was unlikely to be innocent at this 
stage. The pet had been very wriggly so it wasnt the easiest to examine. 
The vet couldnt rule out the presence of a heart murmur during the November visit. It was 
unlikely to have developed in the following couple of weeks and Casualty said the heart 
condition wouldve been present from birth.
Mrs M was unhappy Casualty had further delayed dealing with her claim. And she felt the 
compensation should be increased or her policy premium adjusted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms pet insurance policy helps cover veterinary treatment costs to keep her pet healthy. 
The policy documentation states what is and isnt insured. And I can see the exclusions 
include any claim for treatment relating to a pre-existing condition and any claim made within 
the waiting period of the first 14 days after the policy start date. 
Exclusions arent unusual in this type of policy. And most pet insurance policies wont 
provide cover for conditions starting before the policy began or within a set period of the 
policy start date.
The policy document defines a pre-existing condition as any diagnosed or undiagnosed 
condition and/or associated condition which has happened or has shown clinical signs or 
symptoms of existing in any form before the policy start date or within the waiting period.
I can see from the medical history that the pet was seen by a vet in October 2021. No heart 
murmur was noted during the examination. Mrs M took the pet to her vet in November for 
vaccinations four days after the policy start date. The medical notes state the pet presented 
with clear eyes, ears and coat and no concerns were recorded.
The pet returned to the vet about five weeks later  after the policy had started and after the 
14-day waiting period had expired. A couple of days earlier Mrs M had taken the pet for a 
check elsewhere and a murmur had been noted. Her usual vet confirmed a murmur when 
the puppy was settled and not wriggling. 
The vet also reported on the medical history that the pet had been very wriggly during the 
earlier November visit and hadnt been easy to examine. So the vet couldnt rule out the 
presence of a murmur at the earlier visit. 
Casualty has relied on the vets notes to state the onset date for the condition claimed for 
should be the first visit in November and excluded as the clinical signs or symptoms were 
shown within the waiting period. Casualty has also stated that the diagnosed condition, 
pulmonic stenosis, is congenital and wouldve been present in the pet from birth. 
Ive carefully considered the wording of the exclusion and how it relates to whats happened 
here. To decline Mrs Ms claim Casualty needs to show, on balance, it can rely on the pre-
existing condition exclusion. And I dont think Casualty has acted fairly in stating the onset 
date should be set to the date of the November visit. The attending vet made no reference to 
any heart murmur during the visit and gave the pet a clean bill of health. 
When a later examination highlighted the condition the vet said theyd been unable to carry 
out a full examination due to the pets wriggly behaviour. So the vet could not be certain that 
the murmur wasnt present during the earlier November examination. But not being certain 
the murmur wasnt present is not the same as saying the murmur was present or was likely 
to have been present. 
According to the medical notes no heart murmur was noted during that the examination 
towards the end of October. And no murmur was noted during the examination at the 
beginning of November.
So I dont think it would be fair to say clinical signs or symptoms of the condition had shown 
before the policy start date or within the waiting period. There is no evidence to support this. And I dont think it would be fair for Casualty to rely on this to exclude Mrs Ms claim on that 
basis.
Casualty has responded that the condition is congenital. The heart problem wouldve been 
present at birth, even if it didnt show signs or symptoms until a later point. And the exclusion 
includes any undiagnosed condition which has happened.
Ive considered if a strict interpretation of the policy terms would support Casualtys decision 
to decline the claim as a pre-existing condition as it had happened at birth. But I can also 
step outside of the strict policy terms and conditions where I consider it would be fair and 
reasonable to do so.
A key consideration would be whether I thought Mrs M had been treated fairly based on her 
knowledge of the pets health at the time she took out the policy. And I wouldnt necessarily 
consider it fair for the insurer to decline a claim if Mrs M believed her pet was healthy when 
she took out the pet insurance policy.
As Ive discussed above theres no medical evidence to show any signs or symptoms were 
present either when Mrs M took out the policy or during the 14-day waiting period. The first 
two medical examinations gave her pet a clean bill of health. And the condition was only 
highlighted because Mrs M took advantage of a discounted check-up with a different vet 
during the following month.
Based on everything Ive seen, including the medical history, I dont think Casualty has acted 
fairly and reasonably in declining Mrs Ms claim. Im not persuaded that the signs or 
symptoms of the condition were present before the policy start or within the waiting period. 
And I dont think Casualty would be treating Mrs M fairly by strictly applying the clause based 
on an unknown and undiagnosed congenital condition that was present at birth but unknown 
to the owner. The existence and severity of the condition only became apparent about five or 
so weeks after the pet insurance policy had begun.
As I dont believe Casualty has acted fairly in declining the claim for a pre-existing condition, 
it follows that I dont think Casualty should apply a general exclusion to the policy excluding 
future claims with respect to the respiratory system and heart conditions.
Putting things right
To put things right Casualty should settle Mrs Ms claim and add 8% simple interest from the 
date Mrs M paid for the treatment until the date of settlement. 
Casualty should also remove the endorsement to the pet insurance policy excluding any 
future claim with respect to the respiratory system and heart conditions. 
And it should compensate Mrs M for any distress caused. Our investigator recommended 
Casualty pay Mrs M £100 and I think thats reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd to carry out the steps Ive outlined in putting things right above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman