DRN-1884773
The complaint
Mr D complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as SEAT Financial 
Services (SEAT) didnt pay enough compensation when it agreed to take back his car. He 
would like a refund of all the payments he has made and further compensation
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for these reasons:-
SEAT has accepted that the new car Mr D took out  a Hire Purchase Agreement for 
had a manufacturing defect and so allowed Mr D to return his car. I think that was a 
reasonable response to Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D would like all his payments refunded  and further compensation for  the distress 
and inconvenience. I agree some compensation is appropriate given Mr Ds use of a 
new car would have been diminished due to the manufacturing defect. And that Mr D 
says he didnt feel safe driving the car.
Mr D received a deposit refund of £379.10 . However, its now been clarified that Mr 
D only paid a nominal deposit of  24 pence.  SEAT feels this amount should be 
considered when looking at compensation. I dont feel that is unreasonable
Given Mr D did use the car during the investigation I felt our investigators initial  
recommendation of a 10% refund of payments made and £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience was fair.  However, that recommendation was made whilst all parties 
believed the refund Mr D had already received was to return his deposit which was 
not the case. 
As the refund Mr D has already had is a higher payment  than the total compensation 
our investigator initially recommended, I agree with our investigators second view 
that it was  reasonable to say that Mr D had already been suitably compensated. And 
therefore, that no further compensation was appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman