DRN-2183240
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy Amtrust Europe Limited cancelled his furniture warranty policies.  
What happened
Mr K held six furniture warranty policies with Amtrust for different items in his home. 
He made a claim to Amtrust under one of the policies as he noticed a stain on the drawer of 
a bed. Amtrust tried to arrange for a technician to visit Mr Ks property but it was unable to 
find one that was willing to take on the job. 
Amtrust explained to Mr K that, given none of the technicians on its panel were willing to 
take on jobs for Mr K it wouldnt be able to provide a service under his policies going 
forwards. Because of this it said it would be cancelling his policies and providing him with a 
full refund of premiums. It further explained due to the unusual circumstances in which the 
policies were being cancelled, it hadnt deducted the cost of any claims Mr K had previously 
made or had it chosen to only provide a refund for the remaining time left on cover for the 
policies.
Mr K complained to Amtrust. He didnt think it was entitled to cancel his policies as there was 
no term in the contracts which enabled it to do so. He wanted his policies to be reinstated 
and his claim, and any future claims dealt with. Amtrust refused to change its position so 
Mr K brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. She said 
in the circumstances, as Amtrust had explained why it would be unable to service the 
policies any more, it had offered a fair and reasonable settlement. She said while there was 
not a specified clause in the contracts, Amtrust had made a commercial decision to cancel 
the policies which this service cant overturn.  The investigator did say Amtrust should pay 
Mr K what it would have cost it to arrange a clean of the bed drawer as this claim was made 
before the policies were cancelled.
Mr K didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In doing so 
he reiterated the points hed made previously that there is no term in the contracts which 
allows Amtrust to cancel them. He also said that the stain on the bed draw cant be cleaned 
and the policy stipulates if this is the case the full value of the item or a replacement item will 
be provided. Mr K said £46.50 doesnt cover the cost of an £800 bed. 
The case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it should be upheld in part. Ill explain why.
Mr K has argued Amtrust shouldnt have cancelled his policies as it wasnt entitled to do so 
according to the contracts he has. 
When deciding complaints, I have to take into account the policy terms and the relevant law, 
But Im not bound by them in the same way as the courts. Ultimately my role is to decide 
what is fair and reasonable considering all the circumstances. Bearing that in mind, Ive 
considered whether Amtrust has acted reasonably in cancelling Mr Ks policies. 
Based on the evidence provided to me it is clear that the relationship between Mr K and 
Amtrust has broken down. Mr K is unhappy with how Amtrust has dealt with his claim and 
also the contractors it has previously tried to appoint to deal with other claims he has made.  
I have also seen that, as Amtrust has said, technicians have declined to take on any further 
jobs to attend Mr Ks property. Im satisfied that Amtrust has tried to arrange for different 
technicians to attend, even approaching ones outside of Mr Ks immediate area however it is 
now in the position where it has no further technicians it can appoint. 
Amtrust isnt able to fulfil the contracts it has with Mr K, so it has taken the decision to cancel 
those contracts and provide a full refund of premiums for each of the policies. It isnt my role 
to tell an insurer who it should or shouldnt do business with and based on everything Ive 
seen, I dont think Amtrust has acted unreasonably in taking the action it has. Its provided a 
full refund of premiums and hasnt made any deductions for the cost of any claims Mr K has 
previously made. Because of this, I wont be asking Amtrust to reinstate Mr Ks policies. 
But I do think Amtrust should meet the claim Mr K made for the stain on a bed drawer, as 
this was made before it decided to cancel the policies.  Amtrust has offered to make a 
payment of £46.50 to Mr K as this is what it would cost it to arrange for the draw to be 
cleaned.  Mr K has said the stain cant be removed and so the full value of the item or a 
replacement should be offered under the policy. 
Ive considered what Mr K has said but I dont agree that is a reasonable settlement. The 
stain in question, which I have seen photos of, is said to be a food stain. It is located at the 
bottom of the draw and less than 2cm in width. Mr K hasnt provided any independent 
evidence which proves the stain cant be removed by a professional clean, so Ive seen 
nothing to persuade me that is in fact the case. I think its more likely than not the stain can 
be cleaned. The policy allows Amtrust to pay a cash settlement limited to the equivalent cost 
of repairing the item and I think it should do this.  
Putting things right
Amtrust should pay Mr K what it would have cost it to arrange for the draw to be cleaned. 
Stated to be £46.50.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint against Amtrust Europe Limited in part and I direct it to make a 
payment to Mr K of £46.50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman