DRN-4481133
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the arrears letters Barclays Bank Plc is sending them. They 
say that as far as theyre concerned their account is up to date and they cannot understand 
why theyre receiving such letters.
What happened
In 2014 Mr and Mrs B took a mortgage with Barclays. They borrowed around £186,950 on
capital repayment terms. They agreed to a five-year fixed interest rate of 3.55% until 
31 March 2019. Thereafter the mortgage would revert to a variable rate of 3.39% above the 
Barclays Bank Base Rate for the remaining term. 
The mortgage came with a related product, the mortgage current account (MCA). The MCA
is a secured overdraft facility. 
In November 2022 Barclays sent Mr and Mrs B a letter titled Statement of overdue amount 
on your mortgage. The letter said that as of 17 November 2022 their main mortgage 
account had a prepayment balance of £166.74 and that their MCA was overdrawn by £5.03.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Barclays. They dont agree that they are in arrears, and they 
say theyve never missed a payment. They are finding the repeated letters distressing and 
question why theyve only started receiving such letters now. 
Barclays responded to the complaint. It said that Mr and Mrs B have historical arrears on 
their account since 2016. A payment was missed in April 2016 which has caused the 
account to fall into arrears. 
Barclays says that because Mr and Mrs Bs payments fall due on the last day of the month 
and because they pay their mortgage on the first of each month  their account falls into 
arrears for a day each month. When Mr and Mrs B made their payment on 
1 November 2022, their account was in credit by £166.74, until their next instalment was due 
on 30 November 2022. That put their account in arrears of £729.07 for a day, until the 
December payment. 
Barclays says that because Mr and Mrs Bs account is in less than two months worth of 
arrears, no adverse information has been reported to the credit reference agencies and that 
will continue to be the case if the balance remains below the threshold. But Barclays has 
explained that due to a change in its process, customers will receive calls and letters as 
soon as their account falls into arrears  even by a penny and/or even for a day. 
Barclays says theres no way to stop the automatically generated arrears letters in the 
circumstances. Barclays does not agree that any arrears should be waived but it did offer 
£200 compensation for the time taken to resolve the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. They dont agree that Barclays can change its internal process without notifying 
customers first. They also dont agree that, as suggested by Barclays, they should make 
their payments a day or so earlier to prevent their account going into arrears and triggering 
the letters. 
An investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs B missed a payment in April 2016 which has caused an arrears balance. And its 
not unreasonable for Barclays to seek payment of any arrears. She thought £200 fairly 
compensated Mr and Mrs B for any delayed communication and for any confusion that they 
say occurred at the time of the missed payment as suggested. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans final decision on the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs monthly mortgage instalments fall due on the last day of each month. Each 
month when Mr and Mrs Bs contractual monthly instalments are due, they must make that 
payment, in that month, to keep their mortgage account up to date. 
Mr and Mrs Bs account does show some arrears dating back to 2016. A direct debit on 
1 April 2016 was returned unpaid. The mortgage transaction history shows that a further 
payment wasnt made in April 2016 to make up for the returned direct debit. The next 
successful payment was made on the 5 May 2016. Due to the way payments are expected 
to be made, the May payment was allocated to the May instalment. So Mr and Mrs B 
essentially missed a payment in April 2016.
Mr and Mrs Bs account has fallen one month behind. But essentially the way they are 
managing their account means that when the account is billed at the end of the month and 
the direct debit is paid at the beginning of each month, this brings them out of arrears into 
prepayment for the month but then back into arrears once the instalment is due at the end of 
the next month  for a day or so until their next months instalment is paid and then the same 
pattern occurs.
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs B make reference to a call they say they had with Barclays in 
2016  in which they say they were told that following the missed payment, they could keep 
the payment date as the 1st of each month, and they wouldnt be impacted. Barclays contact 
notes dont suggest a call of that nature took place at that time. The only notes from 2016 
relate to request from Mr and Mrs Bs bank to cancel their direct debit.
The earliest record Ive seen of a call taking place in relation to this mortgage is in 
January 2018. Mr B called to say that he couldnt make Januarys payment within the month. 
He said he could make payment on around 2 February. Barclays said that would be fine if he 
also made Februarys payment in the same month (so two payments in February), to prevent 
arrears from accruing.
Mr and Mrs B say they were specifically told in 2016 that by continuing to make their 
payment on the first of each month, they wouldnt be impacted. I dont have any reason to 
doubt Mr and Mrs Bs testimony about the conversation they recall in 2016, but due to the 
time that has passed, information is limited and its quite possible that the call they are 
referring to is in fact the one that took place in 2018. I say that because the nature of this call 
correlates with what Mr and Mrs B say happened in 2016. That said, Ive seen nothing to 
suggest Mr and Mrs B were told during this call, or any other call, that it was fine to miss a 
payment without there being any implications. Mr and Mrs B say that by not keeping a record of the call, that they say took place in 2016, 
Barclays have breached the Mortgage Conduct of Business (MCOB) rules. They quote 
13.3.9(1) that says a mortgage lender must make and retain an adequate record of its 
dealings with a customer whose account has a payment shortfall. But part two of the rules 
says that the business must retain such records for three years from the date of the dealing. 
So in accordance with the rules, Barclays was only required to keep such record until 2019, 
three years after Mr and Mrs B say the conversation about their missed payment took place. 
As such Im not persuaded there has been any breach here. 
In accordance with the rules, Barclays did however write to Mr and Mrs B when their direct 
debits were returned as unpaid over the years  specifically in 2016 and then again in 2019 
and 2023.
I note that in 2019 Mr and Mrs B reinstated their direct debit. This was around the time their 
fixed rate ended and their mortgage reverted to a variable interest rate. They likely reverted 
to paying by direct debit since their monthly payments were now subject to change and to 
ensure that they made the right payments each month.
Barclays says its new system generates automated letters when a customer falls into 
arrears, even by a penny and/or even for a day only. There is nothing in the MCOB rules that 
says a business is required to notify its customers when it changes its internal systems. But 
in accordance with the mortgage contract, any shortfall payment is payable and so Barclays 
is entitled to seek payment of arrears from a customer  although it needs to ensure that any 
repayments of an outstanding amount should be done in a way that is affordable for the 
customer.
Barclays have offered a solution to this. If Mr and Mrs B are able to change their direct debit 
to be paid on or before their instalment due date  so bringing it forward by a couple of days, 
this would stop them from receiving arrears letters each month. Mr and Mrs B havent 
agreed to this. They say this is out of principle rather than due to a financial reason 
preventing them from doing so. 
Unfortunately, Barclays has explained that these letters are automatically generated. I cant 
reasonably ask Barclays to change its whole billing system to address this individual issue. If 
Mr and Mrs B arent willing to make their monthly payments by the date due, then they must 
accept that they may continue to receive arrears letters from Barclays.
Mr and Mrs B have recently said that, despite making a payment of £5.03 towards their 
MCA, to limit the impact of the letters theyre receiving - theyre still being written to about 
this amount. 
From Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage account transaction history I can see that payment was 
made to their main mortgage account. Its unclear why that happened but due to the amount 
paid, its clear that it was Mr and Mrs Bs intention for that payment to go to their MCA. 
I have raised this with Barclays, and it has agreed to transfer £5.03 to Mr and Mrs Bs MCA. 
The MCA balance should now be cleared. I must manage Mr and Mrs Bs expectations here. 
Even though Barclays has agreed to make the adjustment and their MCA balance should 
now be cleared, this may not stop Mr and Mrs B receiving further letters about any arrears 
remaining on their main mortgage account. Unless Mr and Mrs B agree to change their 
direct debit date, they may continue to receive letters of this nature. And for the reasons Ive 
explained its not unreasonable for Barclays to expect the account to be brought up to date 
or for it to send arrears letters in such circumstances.Barclays has offered to pay Mr and Mrs B £200 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused them. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances on the basis that I dont think Barclays has acted unfairly, so I wont be 
directing it to pay any further compensation to that already offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Mr and Mrs B £200 compensation as offered, as it appears its not done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman