DRN-2264120
The complaint
This is a complaint that Melton Mowbray Building Society mis-sold Mr and Mrs W payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about monthly-premium PPI policies taken out with mortgages in 2001 and 
2004.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs W have said they were told, during a phone conversation, that they had to take 
out PPI. They then returned the application form by post. 
If Melton Mowbray did wrongly tell Mr and Mrs W that the PPI was compulsory, that would 
amount to a mis-sale. However, I have to look fairly at whether there is enough evidence to 
support such a finding. 
Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, 
fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present evidence that this 
probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something 
wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. 
And I am conscious that this was roughly 20 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if 
someone didnt remember the detail of everything that was said in a conversation. So it can 
be hard to know how much I can fairly rely on what Mr and Mrs W now remember.  I 
wouldnt, for example, know whether Melton Mowbray just said it would be a very good idea 
to take PPI, or whether indeed they did say there was no choice. 
And I can see that the form, which Mr and Mrs W signed, did clearly set out the choice of 
saying yes or no to PPI. And I can also see that, in an application for a further advance in 
May 2002, Mr and Mrs W appear originally to have ticked yes to PPI and there is written 
next to this subject to receiving details  and then the yes was crossed through and 
changed to a no. So I would say the evidence points to them knowing, at least by May 
2002, that they knew PPI wasnt compulsory. 
But overall, there just isnt good evidence for me to be able fairly to say Melton Mowbray 
mis-sold the PPI in this way. 
Melton Mowbray says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs W; but Mr and Mrs W say it 
did. 
If it had recommended the PPI, we would judge its sales process by a higher standard  it 
would have had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ws particular 
circumstances. 
However, I dont need to resolve this conflict of accounts. This is because it wouldnt make a 
difference to my decision  this is because I think that, even if it had recommended the PPI, 
it would have been a suitable recommendation, looking at Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at 
the time. This is because:
Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. 
Its likely Mr W (the person covered) was eligible for the policies (so wouldnt have 
been barred from claiming). 
The PPI would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. 
Mr and Mrs W have said they had savings which I can see would have been 
equivalent to about 3 months of Mr Ws salary. But it must be remembered that, if 
they lost Mr Ws income, theyd still have to cover all their household costs and not 
just the mortgage from their savings. And its quite possible unemployment could last 
longer this. The PPI also would have put off the time when Mr and Mrs W would need 
to fall back on their savings. So PPI would have put Mr and Mrs W in a more secure 
position, long term. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr W would 
have been affected by any of these
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr and Mrs W to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (assuming they understood they had a choice  
which I realise they are saying wasnt the case).
Looking at the paperwork, although I cant be sure, I think its likely Melton Mowbray set out 
the cost before Mr and Mrs W signed to take PPI. And, even if this didnt happen properly, I 
dont think fuller information is likely to have changed whether they took PPI, given the 
relatively low cost of the PPI and the potential benefits. 
So my overall conclusion is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman