DRN-1962490
The complaint
Miss D complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss D acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MBFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Miss D. The car 
here was brand new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
The relevant legislation also says we should consider whether the car has been suitably 
durable. 
Here, I think the car hasnt proven to be suitably durable. Miss D has experienced several 
issues with the vehicle. The crankshaft failed within six months and Ive seen that problems 
with the crankshaft, door locks and an oil leak plagued Miss D for several months thereafter. 
I dont think a reasonable person would think this meant the car was reasonably durable and 
I can see MBFS agreed and have been prepared to allow Miss D to reject the car.
Ive considered the investigators view of how they should put things right for Miss D and I 
agree with him. 
Putting things right
It does not appear to be in dispute that the agreement should be ended, and the deposit 
should be refunded to Miss D with interest. Id agree with that approach and the addition of 
interest will compensate Miss D for being deprived of that money whilst funding a car that 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Miss D should also receive some compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced. Thats been quite significant here. Shes experienced significant issues with the 
car over a period of many months. Miss D has explained that shes had to take time off work 
to get the car to the garage and I can understand thats been difficult as she works in the 
NHS. Miss D has explained that she didnt get a courtesy car in May 2020 and that a taxi the 
dealership organised didnt arrive and shes also been unable to agree a settlement with 
MBFS and has had to refer her complaint to this service. I think MBFS could have resolved 
things earlier as I dont think their offer was generous enough.
I understand that Miss D has already received a monthly finance instalment and £150 from 
MBFS and the dealership but I dont think thats enough to compensate her for the distress 
and inconvenience shes suffered. In the circumstances, I think a further payment of £300 is 
appropriate and fair.
MBFS should also refund some of the instalments that Miss D paid in respect of the loss of 
use shes had from the car she was financing. That refund should take into account the fact 
that they have, for the most part, kept Miss D mobile but, in the circumstances, I think a 
refund of 15% of payments made between and including December 2019 and March 2020 
should be made.
Miss D has explained that she also experienced problems with the car throughout April, May 
and June 2020. Ive asked her about that, and shes explained the car was being repaired for 
the whole of that period. She got the car back in June 2020 and its been working fine since 
then. So, I think MBFS should refund instalments paid by her during those months. I dont 
accept their view that this only happened because Miss D would not accept the offer they 
had made as I think their offer wasnt as generous as it should have been; for instance, they 
were only prepared to return part of the deposit.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above I uphold this complaint and tell Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
refund Miss Ds deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
refund 15% of all instalments paid between December 2019 and March 2020 
inclusive;
refund the finance instalments paid in April, May and June 2020;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Ds credit file in relation to 
this issue.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman