DRN-4083530
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr S bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2019. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for any misrepresentation 
or breach of contract by the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr S alleges 
that the supplier misled Mr S into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Ss complaint was considered by one of our investigators. Initially, our investigator 
thought the complaint should be upheld. But Ikano disagreed and pointed out that the 
documents from the time of sale do not indicate the system was sold as self-funding. On 
review of the case, an investigator agreed with Ikano and thought that the documents from 
the time of sale (which Mr S signed) made it clear that the benefits of the solar panel system 
would not cover the cost of the system and therefore the system would not be immediately 
self-funding in the way Mr S says he was led to believe. So, the investigator did not think a 
misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr S disagreed. Through his representatives, he made the following points: 
They re-iterated that Mr S was verbally told the social energy grid payments and 
savings on energy bills would cover the cost of the monthly payments and that the 
system would be self-funding. 
The documents didnt reflect the verbal representations made by the supplier and we 
had given no consideration to what was discussed 
Mr S would not have bought the solar panels if he had been told that the system 
would increase his outgoings. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way they could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the representatives rely on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr S was provided with the sales documents, and it seems likely that he 
wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as he has signed the documents. The initial sales 
meeting appears to have taken place on 18 September 2019. Mr S signed a number of 
documents on this day which Ive reviewed in conjunction with considering his testimony. 
I can see Mr S signed a document setting out his estimated year one solar returns which set 
out that he would receive between £327.81 to £412.03 for the first year. 
It also set out cash price as £12,000 and the balance remaining after a deposit of £100 was, 
£11,900. Under a heading funding options, the box for finance has been ticked. Mr S signed 
immediately below the section setting out the costs on 18 September 2019. 
Mr S went onto sign a validation sheet that also set out the loan term, the total amount 
payable of £15,685.03 and the monthly payments of £130.71. 
Finally, on the same day, Mr S also signed his credit agreement which again set out the 
terms of his finance agreement  including the amount being borrowed, the total amount 
payable and his monthly loan repayments. I understand he took out a 10-year loan  while 
his payments were deferred for 12 months, he only needed to make 120 monthly payments. 
Amounts payable
 
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr S was told the cost of the loan both in terms of the cash 
price and the total amount payable including his finance charges. This is noted on several 
documents he signed. And I dont think its likely, that Mr S would agree to a purchase of this 
scale and take out a loan for over £10,000 without discussing and asking for some basic 
details of the purchase and loan agreement. 
Mr Ss credit agreement also specifies that interest will be charged from the date the account 
is debited, and this is also normal practice. I havent seen anything that suggests Mr S was 
told the loan wouldnt accrue interest during the deferral period. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the costs and finance charges were made clear to him at the time 
of sale. 
Self-funding 
Given that the sale documents record the financial details related to his specific sale and 
system, including the costs and the benefits the system is likely to produce, I think the 
documents likely reflect the nature of the discussions Mr S would have had with the sales 
representative. 
Mr S has signed on the page setting out the likely year one returns, and the total is a 
maximum of £412.03 per year. It was clear Mr Ss monthly payments were £130.71 a month, 
so I think its apparent that the year one benefit will only cover a few monthly payments. 
While the annual figures were only recorded as Totals, as explained above, this section 
was setting out his returns from the solar panels so I think this would have been discussed 
on the day. If he didnt understand what that meant, he would have had the opportunity to 
ask what these figures meant. 
Overall, I think its more likely, that the year one figure would have been explained to Mr S 
and that it would have been clear to him that the solar panels would not be self-funding in 
the way he says he was told they would be. 
I understand Mr S was also given a contract variation document on 30 September 2019 
following a technical survey. This gave him slightly amended benefit figures. 
Mr S signed immediately beneath this section and this makes it very clear that his year one 
benefit will only be a maximum of £390.41. While this was signed sometime after the credit 
agreement  I think Mr S would likely have remembered that his monthly payments were 
over a £100 a month, and like his earlier estimation, the benefit would only cover a few 
monthly payments. 
Mr S also signed immediately below a section setting out the total benefit he could expect to 
receive over 30 years. 
As you can see this is handwritten and Mr S signed right next to this - and the amount is less 
than the overall amounts due under the finance agreement  which was £15, 685.03. 
Mr S signed an array of documents setting out the estimated benefits as well as the costs 
associated with the purchase including finance charges. While I have considered his 
testimony, I dont think its probable that he signed so many documents, setting out his 
benefits and cost clearly on the day of the sale, but didnt discuss them or look at them to 
some degree. And these show a significant shortfall between the annual benefits and cost. 
And given that he didnt challenge any of these figures at any point, makes me think they 
likely didnt contradict his understanding at the time. If he had been expecting significantly 
more benefits, (which would be needed to cover the finance costs), then I would have 
expected him to have questioned this at the time, rather than sign the documents and 
proceed with the installation. 
While the contract variation document was signed sometime after the credit agreement, the 
figures are only slightly different, still show a significant shortfall and are more clearly 
displayed. As explained, the year one estimate is more clearly noted on there, so if he hadnt 
understood the figures from the day of sale, I think, like our investigator says, this would 
have made it very apparent that the system would not be self-funding. 
So, overall, I think its more likely that Mr S was aware of what the costs were, and what the 
benefits were and that the benefits would fall significantly short of what was needed to cover 
the finance costs. So I dont think its likely, that the system was presented as self-funding 
either on the day of sale or during the variation. So Im not satisfied that Mr S bought the 
system on that basis. 
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act. A sufficient inequality of knowledge and 
understanding is considered a classic source of unfairness in a relationship between a 
creditor and a consumer. Ikano has confirmed that it paid no commission to the supplier and 
considering that I havent found any misrepresentation, I think a court is unlikely to conclude 
that there is an unfair relationship under section 140.
Summary 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Ss testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint. So overall, Im satisfied 
that Ikano did not act unreasonably or unfairly when declining the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman