DRN-3103212
The complaint
Mr K, Mrs K and Mr K complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt refunded the premiums 
they paid for an annual travel insurance policy.
As Mrs K made the complaint, for simplicity, Ive mainly referred solely to her throughout this 
decision.
What happened
On 9 March 2020, Mr K, Mrs K and Mr K took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy 
to provide them cover between 26 March 2020 and 25 March 2021. They paid £80.08 for the 
policy. On 7 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office advised 
against all but essential travel abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Travel restrictions 
remained in place for much of the policy year, although at points, some rules were relaxed.
In February 2021, Mrs K called AXA to discuss potential policy renewal. She queried 
whether she was entitled to any refund of the annual premium shed paid, given she hadnt 
been able to travel during the previous policy year. 
AXA said that as Mrs K hadnt cancelled the policy within 14 days of taking it out, she wasnt 
entitled to any refund of premium. 
Mrs K was unhappy with AXAs decision and so she asked us to look into her complaint. She 
said she had had trips booked, but that if shed needed to cancel them, she couldve claimed 
back the deposits from her credit card provider.
Our adjudicator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. She also explained that it is a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. And she explained that Covid-19 
didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under 
it started on 25 March 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The adjudicator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
She thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for AXA to pay Mrs K a pro-rata refund of her premium.
AXA accepted the adjudicators recommendation. Itd backdated the cancellation of the 
policy to 28 February 2020. It calculated that if the policy had run to term, it wouldve been 
on risk for 365 days. However, the cancellation of the policy meant 25 days of cover had 
been unused. So it offered to pay Mrs K £5.48 which represented a pro-rata refund of 
premium for the unused portion of the policy.
Mrs K didnt think AXAs offer was fair. She thought the only fair outcome would be for AXA 
to refund 50% of the policy premium, as thered been no opportunity to use the policy during 
the period of cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, Mrs K and Mr K, I think AXAs offer is fair 
and Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation Period
You can cancel this policy at any time by contacting us on
A full refund of premium will be made if:
You contact (the) Travel Insurance within 14 days of receiving your Policy 
Documents; and
You have not made, and do not intend to make, a claim; and
No incident has occurred which may mean you need to make a claim; and
You have not travelled.
Otherwise no refund of premium will be made.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period. So there is no requirement under the 
relevant industry rules and guidelines for AXA to offer any refund of Mrs Ks premium.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that AXA wont pay a refund of a 
policyholders premium if the policy isnt cancelled within 14 days of the receipt of the policy 
documents. In this case, Mrs Ks cooling-off period ended on 23 March 2020. But the policy 
wasnt cancelled until 28 February 2021  after the policy had been running for over 11 
months. So the cancellation was significantly outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. This 
means I dont think the terms and conditions of Mrs Ks contract with AXA entitle her to any 
refund of premium.  
But Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint 
(as Im required to do) including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case I think AXAs offer to pay Mrs K a pro-rata refund 
representing the unused portion of her policy is fair and reasonable. And given the policy 
wasnt cancelled until 28 February 2021, I think its fair that the date of the cancellation of the 
policy is used to calculate the refund on the facts of this case 
 
AXA wouldve been on-risk for the policy for a 365-day period if the policy hadnt been 
cancelled. The refund represents the remaining, unused 25 days of cover, after the policy 
was cancelled, as AXA was no longer carrying any risk of Mrs K making a claim after that 
point. 
I acknowledge that Mrs K says that had she had to cancel any of her booked trips, shed 
have claimed the costs back from her credit card provider. But the fact remains that during 
the life of the policy, AXA was covering the risk of Mrs K cancelling her pre-booked trips and 
various other risks. Id add that Ive checked AXAs calculation and it appears correct.So while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs K, Ive decided that AXAs refund offer is fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that AXAs offer of settlement is fair 
and reasonable.
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr K, Mrs K and Mr K a pro-rata refund of their 
premium for the unused portion of their policy. AXA has calculated the amount due to be 
£5.48.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K, Mrs K and 
Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman