DRN-3539840
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc wont refund him several direct debit payments 
made to a telecoms provider that he says he didnt agree to. 
What happened
Mr T holds a current account with HSBC. Hes also been a long-standing customer of a 
particular telecoms company, which Ill refer to as A.
In November 2019 Mr T contacts HSBC saying he didnt recognise some of the direct debit 
payments out of his account, between June and November 2019. After a delay HSBC raised 
a direct debit indemnity in an attempt to recover the funds. But this was defended by A. Mr T 
complained, but HSBC didnt respond.
Mr T referred the complaint to our service, saying he hadnt authorised the transactions out 
of his account. He said at the time hed been in and out of hospital, and it was only when he 
had time to review his statements, he noticed them. He said hed been in touch with A and 
was told the payments were for 14 mobile phone numbers and four home broadband 
accounts. He told us he didnt open these accounts. He thinks the fraud may have happened 
at a shop owned by A, as when he went in to buy a new phone, they asked for his debit 
card.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. They asked HSBC to raise a new direct 
debit indemnity, but this was again defended by A, who provided copies of Mr Ts telecoms 
statements to show theyd let him know in advance what amounts would be taken.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. They felt the evidence theyd seen 
suggested Mr T didnt authorise the direct debit payments. They said the direct debit 
guarantee would cover claims for any unauthorised payments, and as such the consumer 
should be entitled to a full and immediate refund. They asked for HSBC to refund the 
disputed payments to Mr T.
Mr T agreed with this outcome, but HSBC didnt. They said they didnt feel this was covered 
by the direct debit guarantee, and they shouldnt be held liable for any mistakes made by A. 
Because no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me to decide. Having 
reviewed the evidence, I took a different view from the investigator. I issued my provisional 
decision that said:
Im not currently minded to say HSBC should refund the direct debits in dispute. I think the 
key considerations here are whether direct debits were authorised by Mr T, and also whether 
they are covered by the direct debit guarantee.
The wording of the direct debit guarantee is important here, as this is referred to in the terms 
of Mr Ts HSBC account. This says:
The Direct Debit Guarantee applies to all Direct Debits. It protects you in the rare 
event that there is an error in the payment of your Direct Debit, for instance if a 
payment is taken on the incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected. It cannot be 
used to address contractual disputes between you and the billing organisation. 
In this case Mr T had an existing relationship with A. One of the direct debits on his account 
has been in place since at least 2015, and another was paid for several months prior to the 
period Mr T is disputing. Im satisfied Mr T had authorised A to take money using these 
direct debits. 
But I can also see there are other direct debits to A on Mr Ts account  including several 
that include first payment in the narrative on his statements. This suggests to me they were 
set up in the period Mr T is concerned about. I can also see that the total value of his 
payments to A is considerably higher during this period than usual, and I accept the number 
of phone numbers and broadband accounts associated with Mr T is unusually high. 
But I havent seen anything from Mr T about the dispute with A, or details of what hes 
discussed with them about these payments, or the underlying contracts. So, this makes it 
difficult for me to say with any certainty these direct debits were set up without Mr Ts 
knowledge or consent. So, I wouldnt expect HSBC to refund him for these direct debits on 
that basis.
But A have defended both direct debit indemnity claims sent to then  and they have 
supplied HSBC with the statements for his account, showing they gave advance notice of 
the amounts to be debited. I appreciate Mr T was unwell and didnt get to see these 
statements before the amounts were collected. But as A fulfilled their obligations by letting 
him know in advance the expected amount of the direct debit. This means it wouldnt qualify 
as a wrong amount, as outlined by the direct debit guarantee.
In defending the direct debit indemnities, A has said that they believe the money is owed to 
them. Theyve also commented that Mr T hasnt raised the issue of the number of phone 
contracts and broadband accounts directly with them. Mr T told our service that A is still 
asking him to pay money they believe is owed. 
This strongly suggests to me the dispute between Mr T and A over these payments is more 
contractual in nature  and as such wouldnt be covered by the direct debit guarantee. On 
that basis, I dont think its unreasonable for HSBC to decline to refund him under the 
guarantee. 
Im sorry to hear of the difficulty Mr T was facing at the time. But I dont see HSBC have 
been unfair or unreasonable in declining to refund these direct debit payments. In the 
absence of any further information, it seems the issue with payments would best be resolved 
directly with A.
Neither HSBC nor Mr T have provided anything further to consider by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still minded that HSBC dont need to refund the direct debits in dispute.
Im satisfied Mr T has authorised A to debit his account using the existing direct debits. And 
without any further information from Mr T I cant safely conclude the newer direct debits set up were unauthorised. The information weve received from A doesnt suggest they consider 
these payments to be fraudulent, and they are continuing to seek payment from Mr T.
I dont think this dispute meets the criteria for a refund outlined in the direct debit guarantee. 
A has sent statements to let Mr T know in advance how much theyd be taking  its very 
unfortunate that Mr T was unwell and couldnt get these statements. But I wouldnt expect 
HSBC to refund him on the basis that the wrong amount was taken.
The information from Mr T and from A do suggest any dispute is contractual in nature, which 
the direct debit guarantee excludes from any refunds. So, I dont think HSBC have been 
unreasonable in declining to refund the amounts taken.
Overall, I dont see that HSBC have done anything unfair or unreasonable here  they raised 
the issue directly with A when Mr T asked them, and then made a reasonable to decline to 
refund based on the information available to them. So, I appreciate Mr T will be 
disappointed, but HSBC dont need to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman