DRN-2737347
The complaint
Miss I is unhappy with the way Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) handled her 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In 2019, Miss I borrowed £4,095 from Omni to pay for an elective surgical procedure. There 
were post-operative complications. For the purpose of this decision, I dont need to say 
more. Suffice it to say, Miss I had to have emergency surgery to reverse the procedure.
On 7 December 2019, Miss I wrote to the hospital to complain about her treatment. A day 
later, she wrote to Omni to make a claim under section 75 of the CCA, saying the hospital 
had misrepresented its services and, for various reasons, breached its contract with her. 
Miss I enclosed a copy of the letter shed sent the hospital  which explained in detail what 
had happened  and asked Omni to cancel the loan and refund any payments shed made 
towards it. Omni acknowledged Miss Is letter the following day and explained that it had 
referred her section 75 claim to Business A, the finance broker for the hospital, so that it 
could liaise with the hospital and investigate her concerns.
On 18 June 2020, the broker emailed Omni to ask for the loan agreement to be cancelled. 
Omni refunded Miss Is payments on 19 and 23 June 2020 and cancelled the loan.
On 12 August 2020, Miss I emailed the hospital and the broker to:
confirm safe receipt of the settlement amount agreed regarding my complaint with 
[the hospital] and that this brings my complaint with the company to a conclusion.
Miss I hasnt provided any information about the settlement sum  or the terms of the 
agreement.
However, Miss I now says she had to wait too long to receive her refund and wants Omni to 
pay her some additional compensation. Shes also says it should have updated her more.
Our investigator didnt think Omni had done anything wrong.
Miss I disagrees  so her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Omni acknowledged Miss Is section 75 claim the day after she made it and immediately 
referred it to the broker so that it could investigate her concerns. And when it was asked to 
cancel the loan and refund her payments, it did so promptly. Miss I has now settled her claim 
against the hospital. Any concerns she had about the time it took for the hospital to complete 
its investigation should have been raised with the hospital before she settled her claim. As 
Omni wasnt responsible for any delays, I dont think it needs to pay Miss I any 
compensation. Miss I says Omni should have updated her more. But she knew her concerns 
were being investigated by the broker and/or the hospital and would therefore have known 
that she needed to speak to them for any meaningful update. In the circumstances, I dont 
think Omni did anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman