DRN-2496503
The complaint
Ms C complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited supplied her with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement that wasnt of satisfactory quality 
What happened
Ms C acquired a used car in November 2018 using a hire purchase agreement from 
Startline. The cash price of the car was £6,476, it was around six years old and had covered 
around 59,500 miles. Ms C paid a £300 deposit and the remainder was financed through the 
hire purchase agreement. She was required to pay 48 monthly repayments of around £185. 
In April 2019, the car broke down. Ms C raised a complaint with both the dealership and 
Startline. The dealership asked Ms C to get a diagnostic completed at another garage. Ms C 
called out a recovery company who couldnt get the car started and diagnosed it to be a 
faulty ECU. Ms C was having trouble getting the dealership to accept responsibility to repair 
the car so asked Startline to intervene. 
By late May 2019, Startline had arranged for the car to be inspected at a different garage. 
The garage diagnosed a problem with the wiring in the car which needed repair. The 
dealership said it wouldnt agree to carry out any repairs without another independent 
inspection being carried out first. 
The independent inspection confirmed there was a wiring fault. Ms C asked to reject the car 
but Startline said that it had a right under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) to attempt 
a repair first. The dealership agreed to pay for the repairs to be carried out at an 
independent garage. 
The repairs were completed in late June 2019, however, Ms C complained to Startline on 
receiving the car back because there were scratches on the bonnet and a door seal had 
come loose. Startline spoke to the dealership who agreed to pay £150 to cover the repair 
costs for these issues. 
Ms C asked our service to look into the complaint as she felt she should be allowed to reject 
the car. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. She didnt think Ms C was 
entitled to reject the car as Startline did have a right to repair it first, and it appeared the 
repair had been successful. However, she thought Startline should refund the payments for 
the time Ms C was without the car, which was 71 days. She said it should also pay an 
increased amount to cover the cost of the repairs to the bonnet and door seal as it was clear 
this wouldnt be enough to cover those costs. Lastly, she also recommended a further 
payment of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms C during the time she was 
without the car and the poor service she had received.
Ms C accepted the investigators recommendations and provided two quotes to have the 
repair work carried out. Startline didnt respond, so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire purchase agreement Ms C signed is a regulated consumer credit agreement, so 
this service can consider complaints relating to it. Under the hire purchase agreement, 
Startline is also the supplier of the car and is therefore responsible for a complaint about its 
quality. 
The CRA implies a term into any contract to supply goods that those goods will be of 
satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is taken to be what a reasonable person would expect, 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all other relevant 
circumstances. I think in this case those relevant circumstances include  but arent limited 
to  the age and mileage of the car and the cash price. 
Startline has accepted that the faults Ms C experienced in April 2019 made the car of 
unsatisfactory quality. For completeness, I agree. This is because the nature of the fault 
indicated it wasnt something Ms C would easily have been able to cause herself. Further, 
the independent inspection concluded it was likely to be caused by a poor previous repair, 
which appears to have been completed before Ms C acquired the car. 
As the fault occurred more than 30 days after Ms C took possession of the car the CRA says 
the supplier of the goods (Startline) are entitled to one attempt at a repair before Ms C might 
be allowed to reject the car. A repair has been carried out at no cost to Ms C and it appears 
this has put right the fault. As the car is now of satisfactory quality, I dont think its 
reasonable to allow Ms C to reject the car. 
However, Ms C was left without the car for a significant period of time  around 71 days. 
During this time she wasnt provided with alternative transport. Given she had been unable 
to use the car due to a fault which made it of unsatisfactory quality, I think its reasonable 
that Startline refunds 71 days of finance repayments back to her. 
After the repairs were completed the car was returned with some cosmetic damage. Startline 
appears to accept this damage was likely caused by its agent while it was either in for repair 
or in transit. I therefore think its fair and reasonable for it to pay to put right that damage. 
The dealership agreed to pay £150 towards this cost but Ms C has demonstrated the repairs 
to the bonnet alone are likely to cost at least double that figure. In the circumstances, I think 
its reasonable for Startline to cover all the costs of repairing the cosmetic damage. 
Ms C has provided two quotes for the work, Startline should let her know which quote it is 
willing to cover the cost of, or alternatively, Startline can arrange for and pay another garage 
to complete the work. If Ms C has already received the £150 from the dealership, Startline 
can deduct that from any payment it makes for the cosmetic damage. 
The repairs took a long time to be completed. This was in large part due to delays by the 
dealership when dealing with Ms C and Startline. The dealership werent acting as Startlines 
agent in relation to this finance agreement, so I cant reasonably hold Startline responsible 
for any poor service Ms C received from the dealership. However, as the supplier of the 
goods, it was Startlines responsibility to remedy the faults with the car. While I can 
understand why Startline wanted the dealership to be involved in the process, it was clear 
from early on that they werent fully cooperative in getting things resolved for Ms C. 
Ultimately it was Startlines responsibility  not the dealerships  to put right the faults with 
the car and I think Startline could have resolved things quicker. These delays understandably caused upset and inconvenience to Ms C. Further, Ms C had 
made Startline aware of her difficulties with her mental health, so it was on notice that Ms C 
was a vulnerable consumer. I can see from Startlines internal emails that it was aware of 
this and did try its best to move things along quickly with the dealership because of it. It also 
eventually took steps to minimise the dealerships involvement in the process to lessen the 
impact on Ms C. But despite this, I think Startline could have done things quicker and 
minimised the impact the dealership had on delaying the repairs at an earlier point. In the 
circumstances I think £150 is fair compensation for the delays and inconvenience Startline 
caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Startline Motor Finance 
Limited to:
Refund 71 days of payments under the hire purchase agreement, for the time Ms C 
was without a car, adding 8% simple interest per year on the refund from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
Pay for the repairs of the cosmetic damage to the bonnet and door seal. If Ms C has 
already received the £150 payment from the dealership, Startline can deduct this 
amount from what it has to pay.
Pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its actions caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman