DRN-2804318
The complaint
Ms B complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BMWFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Ms B. The car here was about 
six months old and had only completed about 1,750 miles. So, I dont think a reasonable 
person would expect it to be exhibiting much wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when BMWFS were responsible for its quality, 
unless they can demonstrate otherwise. I can see the first repair on this car took place in 
November 2019 a little after six months. But Im persuaded the leak was most likely to have 
been present at the point of supply because:
the franchised dealership have explained that its a known problem on this type of car 
and that suggests it was there from the beginning;
the fault would only be noticeable when it rained and that would delay Ms B reporting 
it;
So, I think there is evidence here that this car was not of satisfactory quality when supplied 
because it had a fault at that point.
And, even if Im wrong about that, the relevant legislation explains that when we consider 
whether a car is of satisfactory quality we should also consider if it has been durable. I dont 
think a reasonable person would expect an almost new car to leak after only six months of 
use. So, I think this car hasnt proven to be durable.
The relevant legislation says that in those circumstances the business are allowed one 
opportunity to repair the car. I think they had that opportunity in November 2019 but its clear 
that the repair didnt work as the car needed to be repaired again. Im not persuaded Ms B 
accepted the subsequent repairs in October 2020 as the technician at the dealership has 
confirmed that. 
So, I think BMWFS should allow Ms B to reject the car as its not been of satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
BMWFS should collect the car at no cost to Ms B and they should end the finance 
agreement.
Theyll need to refund any deposit Ms B has paid and, as shes been deprived of that money, 
they will need to add interest to that refund.
Ms B has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to take the car back to the 
dealership on a few occasions and has had to escalate her complaint to this service when I 
think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances BMWFS should pay her 
£150 compensation for the trouble and upset shes experienced.
BMWFS should refund all the finance instalments Ms B has paid but its only fair that Ms B 
pay for the use shes had from the car. This agreement was a little unusual as Ms B was 
paying high monthly instalments of over £1,100 a month to reduce the final balloon payment. 
The monthly instalments were not therefore limited to a payment towards the usual lease but 
were also contributing to reducing the balloon payment. And as Ms B isnt now going to keep 
the car her contribution to that balloon payment should be refunded.
Ive thought about how to do that, and I think the investigators suggestion works. He 
suggested that BMWFS should refund all the instalments but could retain a portion of that 
refund calculated on the basis of 45p for every mile completed. In that case if Ms B 
completed 10,000 miles per year BMWFS would be keeping £4,500 or £375 which seems 
about right when Ms Bs contribution to her balloon payment and the impaired use shes had 
is considered.
Ms B has asked me to consider the cost of the insurance products and equipment she had 
fitted to obtain insurance on this car. Those products werent financed by BMWFS and Ms B 
has benefitted from them whilst shes been driving the car and can conceivably cancel the 
arrangement. Im not persuaded that its reasonable to tell BMWFS to refund them or any 
part of them. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to:
end the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Ms B;
refund all the monthly payments made towards the agreement. The business may 
retain a portion of that refund calculated on the basis of 45p per mile and in respect 
of fair usage;
refund Ms Bs deposit and add 8% simple interest to that refund from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Ms B £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Ms Bs credit file in relation to 
this issue. Showing the agreement as settled.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman