DRN-4399492
The complaint
Mr L complains about the service provided to him by Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited 
(Virgin) in respect of a fixed sum loan agreement (agreement) he took out with it for a 
mobile phone (phone).
What happened
On 19 October 2021 Mr L entered into an agreement for a phone costing £1,152. Under the 
terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr L undertook to make 36 monthly 
payments of £32  making a total repayable of £1,152 at an APR of 0%.
On 23 October 2021 Mr L cancelled his agreement with Virgin, something that was 
acknowledged by Virgin the same day.
On 24 April 2023, after Mr L had complained about being pursued for £1,152 from Virgin and 
one of its agents, Virgin issued a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this FRL Virgin 
said that the reason it (and its agent) was pursuing Mr L for £1,152 was because the phone 
(linked to the cancelled agreement) hadnt been returned to it.
On 2 August 2023 Mr L confirmed to our service that:
The phonestill remains in its boxtherefore the phone awaits further advice
On 8 August 2023 Virgin confirmed to our service that if Mr L was to return the phone in 
pristine condition then it would unwind the loan, re call the debits and fix his credit file [sic].
On the same date Mr L confirmed to our service he wasnt prepared to return the phone until 
he had received £2,000 compensation from Virgin.
On 20 August 2023 Virgin confirmed to our service that it was prepared to pay Mr L £150 
compensation.
Mr Ls complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
Virgins offer to accept the return of the phone, to unwind the agreement, to remove any 
adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies and to pay Mr L £150 was, in all 
the circumstances, fair and reasonable.
Virgin agreed with the investigators view. 
Mr L said he accepted Virgins offer to unwind the agreement, to remove any adverse 
information recorded with credit reference agencies and to pay him £150, but not the return 
of the phone because he had disposed of it and it wasnt now available for return.
On receipt of Mr Ls response to his view the investigator advised both parties that he was 
now of the view that Virgin need only pay Mr L £150, nothing more.
Virgin agreed with the investigators revised view but Mr L didnt respond to it. And because 
of the latter Mr Ls complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same ultimate outcome as the 
investigator and for the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has 
already been said.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than it may merit. 
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I will, however, refer to those crucial aspects 
which impact my decision.
I would also add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, 
Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Having reviewed everything the parties have said and submitted, I can confirm that Im 
satisfied that Mr L sent a number of letters to Virgin (about being pursued for the sum of 
£1,152 and about his complaint in respect of the same) that went unanswered. And for this, I 
think Virgin should have to pay Mr L compensation. But like the investigator, Im satisfied 
that £150 represents an appropriate sum for Virgin to have to pay in this respect.
I will now turn to the crux of Mr Ls complaint, that being about Virgin and its agents 
pursuance of the sum of £1,152.
Mr L confirmed to our service that he hadnt returned the phone (as Virgin seemed to initially 
understand was what Mr L was saying) and was still in possession of it. However, he then 
went on to confirm to our service he wasnt in possession of it and had disposed of it.
I find it difficult to understand why Mr L, on 2 August 2023, advised our service that The 
phonestill remains in its box if it had been disposed of before this date, or why Mr L would 
have elected to dispose of the phone after this date given how his complaint, with our 
service, was progressing.
But regardless of when the phone was disposed of by Mr L, or how, Im satisfied that this 
wasnt a reasonable thing for him to do, and thats regardless of how long Mr L waited before 
doing so. And with the phone no longer being available for return, Im further satisfied that 
Virgin (or its agent) can fairly and reasonably pursue Mr L for the sum of £1,152 (plus any 
correctly applied charges, fees and interest) and it need not unwind the agreement and it 
need not remove any adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies.
My final decision
My final decision is that Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited must pay Mr L £150, but it 
need do nothing further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2023.
 
Peter CookOmbudsman