DRN-3419009
The complaint
Mr P complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) will not accept responsibility
for the damage to his kitchen floor tile which occurred when an engineer attended to repair
his cooker. Hes also unhappy that D&G insisted he contacted the repair agent directly about
the broken tile.
What happened
Mr P insured some of his home appliances, including his cooker, with D&G.
In 2021 Mr P contacted D&G to explain there was a problem with his cooker. It appointed an
agent who sent out an engineer to repair the damage.
During a visit in July 2021, a floor tile near the front of the cooker was damaged.
Mr P contacted D&G about the damage. He explained he was helping the engineer lift the
cooker out and in the process one of the floor tiles in front of the cooker was broken.
Mr P said the engineer was responsible. Mr P was told he needed to raise the matter directly
with the repair agent which D&G had appointed to send out the engineer.
Mr P was unhappy with this and so he complained to D&G. It didnt uphold his complaint
saying he needed to raise the matter with the repair agent directly.
Mr P spoke with the repair agent, but it didnt accept responsibility for the damage. So, Mr P
went back to D&G. When D&G didnt agree to fix the damage, Mr P brought his complaint to
our service.
D&G said it wasnt responsible for the damage. It said its repair agent had explained Mr P
had helped lift the appliance out of its position so the engineer could gain access. It said the
damage had occurred because Mr P didnt lift his side of the cooker high enough and part of 
the cooker had hit the tile causing the crack.
Our Service asked Mr P about the damage and he confirmed the tile was broken on his side
of the cooker. However, he said he wasnt told in advance he needed to move the appliance
out for access. Mr P said that had he known this, he would have arranged to have it moved
out prior to the visit. Mr P said that hed been told to make appliances accessible by D&G in
the past in relation to other repairs but wasnt told to do so here. Mr P also explained the
issue with the cooker was on the hob so he hadnt expected the engineer would need
access to the back of the appliance.
Our Investigator looked into things and was of the view it wasnt fair for Mr P alone to bear
responsibility for the damage as hed only moved the cooker because the engineer asked
him to. They also didnt think it was fair Mr P was asked to contact the agent directly to raise
a claim for the tile. They recommended D&G repair the tile.
D&G disagreed with our investigators findings but as a good will gesture and in an effort to
resolve the complaint, asked Mr P to provide a quote or invoice for the repair of the tile.
Mr P said he couldnt find a replacement tile so explained D&G would need to replace the
entire floor at an approximate cost of £2850.
D&G didnt think this was a reasonable request and so asked for an ombudsman to consider
the complaint. It also noted there were companies that could repair broken tiles. 
This response was shared with Mr P who then approached one of the repair companies
D&G had suggested. However, Mr P was told that the tile was beyond repair.
Our Investigator was then of the view D&G should pay to replace Mr Ps entire floor.
D&G didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
After reviewing the evidence, I was intending to reach a different outcome to the Investigator. 
So I issued a provisional decision so that both Mr P and D&G could have the opportunity to 
comment before a final decision was made. In brief, I said I didnt think D&G was responsible 
for the damage and I didnt think the way it had handled the issue was unreasonable.
D&G accepted my provisional decision but Mr P did not. In response Mr P raised a number 
of points which included:
An earlier engineer visit to fix the same fault with his cooker hadnt necessitated 
removing the cooker from its position. 
The issue with his cooker had been ongoing for over six months. The engineer didnt 
inform Mr P that if the cooker wasnt removed an appointment could be arranged at a 
later date. Mr P was under the assumption the appointment would be cancelled 
otherwise, so felt he had no choice but to move the cooker. 
Mr P also advised that there is a screw nut at the front of the cooker that raises 
wheels at the back of the cooker and makes it easy for the cooker to be removed. 
Mr P said he told the engineer this during the visit but the engineer told him no need 
its easy to lift. Mr P said he felt very uneasy just lifting the cooker as this wasnt the 
correct method, but the engineer told him to go ahead anyway.
Whilst the presence of the screw at the front of the cooker (which caused the tile damage) 
had been discussed throughout the course of the complaint, discussions and disagreements 
about the method of removal hadnt been mentioned. So, I put Mr Ps comments about this 
to D&G and asked for their engineers recollection of events.
D&G said the engineer couldnt recall a conversation such as Mr P said. It said if Mr P felt 
the screw nut ought to have been used, he should have ensured this happened. D&G also 
questioned whether adjusting the wheel at the back of the appliance would have prevented 
Mr P from dropping it as it would still need to have been lifted in order to be moved out. 
Finally, it noted that the manual for Mr Ps cooker suggested the mechanism to adjust the 
wheels was at the back of the cooker and so wouldnt have been accessible unless the 
cooker had been moved outwards in any event. 
Mr P later clarified that this was not the case and the mechanism was at the front of the 
cooker. 
Im now in a position to issue a final decision on this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to start by reassuring Mr P that I hadnt missed or misunderstood any of the 
points hes raised. I think it would be helpful to explain that my decision wont address every point or comment made by either Mr P or D&G. I mean no discourtesy by this, and Id like to 
reassure both parties that I have considered all the comments and evidence theyve 
provided to our service. But my decision will only address what I see to be relevant in 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
My role here is to look at whether D&G made any errors and, if so, aim to put Mr P back into 
the position he would have been in had mistakes not been made. As the engineer was
appointed by an agent of D&G, Im satisfied their actions are ultimately something D&G is
responsible for.
It is accepted by both parties that the damage to the floor tile occurred on Mr Ps side of the
cooker when he was helping the engineer lift it out of its position. The cooker wasnt lifted
high enough over the tiles on Mr Ps side and so the tile was broken. Which means it wasnt
the engineers actions in moving the cooker that caused the damage, it was Mr Ps.
But Mr P has said that he wasnt told by the agent in advance of the visit that he needed to
make the back of the cooker accessible. Mr P said that had he been told they needed
access to the back, he would have arranged to have the cooker moved out. I think the
implication being made here is that Mr P would have arranged for the cooker to be moved by
someone other than himself (as he was unable to lift the heavy cooker high enough) if hed
had advance notice. Mr P has also said the engineer used an incorrect method to move the 
cooker against Mr Ps advice which he feels contributed to the fact damage occurred. 
On this basis, Mr P thinks the engineer is responsible for what happened.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. Under your responsibilities it states:
You must arrange any work required to make your product accessible and compliant with all
relevant safety standards and safe to work on (as determined by our engineer). We will not
do any work where these standards are not met.
And under exclusions it states:
We shall not be liable for:
claims where you have breached the important conditions or failed to comply with 
your responsibilities set out in this policy;
damage to any other property or possessions, unless it is our fault;
The terms and conditions do clearly state Mr P needed to ensure the cooker was accessible.
And I cant see that D&G or its agent was under any obligation to remind Mr P to move the
cooker out in advance of the visit. I appreciate Mr P has said D&G has told him to do this in
the past. I also accept he didnt need to do this for earlier visits about the same issue. 
And with the benefit of hindsight, I agree it would have been preferable if D&G had told him 
in advance this was needed. But just because this advice has been provided previously, 
doesnt mean that I can fairly say D&G made an error in not providing a similar warning in 
advance of this particular visit. I say this noting the terms and conditions are clear that 
accessibility is Mr Ps responsibility and noting that it may not have been known by D&G or 
its agent what parts of the appliance the engineer would need to access.
Its also clear that under the terms and conditions of this policy the engineer could have
refused to carry out the work if the cooker wasnt fully accessible. But I think it was
reasonable for the engineer to instead ask Mr P if hed be willing to assist them in moving
the cooker to enable them to carry out the repair. I think this request was made in an effort to
avoid the need for a further appointment. Whilst I recognise that Mr P only attempted to lift
the cooker at the engineers request, I dont think this automatically makes the engineer
liable for Mr Ps actions. Whats key here is the fact that Mr P agreed to assist with moving
the cooker. If Mr P didnt feel able to do so, he could have refused. Yet Mr P didnt refuseand in attempting to move the cooker, it was Mr P who, unfortunately, broke the floor tile.
I have thought about Mr Ps comments about the fact he felt he didnt have a choice but to 
remove the cooker. I appreciate hes told us he was operating under the assumption the 
appointment would be cancelled if the cooker wasnt accessible. However, Ive seen no 
evidence to persuade me that D&G was responsible for the fact Mr P wrongly assumed this. 
I appreciate the engineer didnt explicitly clarify that they would rebook the appointment if 
Mr P didnt remove the cooker, but unless Mr P asked that question or expressed doubts 
over his ability to lift the cooker I wouldnt expect them to. And at no point to date has Mr P 
suggested such conversations took place. Im aware his cooker problems had been ongoing 
for months and in this context, I can see why Mr P was desperate to have the work carried 
out. But Im not persuaded this makes D&G accountable for what Mr P did.
The next point Mr P raised was that the engineer insisted the cooker was moved in the 
incorrect way, going against Mr Ps advice. Yet D&Gs engineer couldnt recall such a 
conversation. Where evidence is incomplete or conflicting, I need to decide what I think is 
likely to have happened. When thinking about the weight to attach to the differing accounts, 
Id note that the first time Mr P mentioned this conversation was following my provisional 
decision when I indicated I wouldnt be upholding his complaint. However, prior to this Mr P 
had spoken with D&G and our Service on multiple occasions about the events which led to 
the broken tile and never mentioned these concerns. Which I think means his evidence here 
carries significantly less weight. Id also note that when I clarified another of the other points 
Mr P raised following my provisional decision he noted he might have been mistaken as it 
had been 10 months since the relevant conversation took place. Whilst I appreciate this was 
in relation to a different point, it does suggest Mr Ps recollection isnt entirely clear due to 
the passage of time. For all of these reasons, on the balance of probabilities, Im not 
persuaded that this conversation about moving the cooker using the wheels took place as 
described by Mr P. Which means Im also not persuaded by his argument that this makes 
D&G responsible.
For all of these reasons, I dont think D&G has acted unfairly here and I dont think its
responsible for the damaged tile.
Moving to its handling of Mr Ps complaint about the damaged tile, D&G asked Mr P to
contact its agent directly to raise a claim and Mr P was unhappy with this. D&G said that its 
agent had the insurance policy that would cover accidental damage caused by its engineers. 
So, D&G told both Mr P and our Service that it always puts its customers in direct contact
with the agent to raise issues like this. D&G hasnt really provided me with an explanation
as to why it chooses not to act as a go between for its customers in circumstances like this.
But this doesnt necessarily mean that the process it has in place is unfair. I would be 
inclined to agree that that the person who was present when the damage occurred is best 
placed to tell the agent exactly what happened.
In considering this complaint point Ive thought about why Mr P was unhappy with what hed
been asked to do. Mr P said he didnt want to contact the agent because his contract was
with D&G. But I note that D&G has regularly appointed agents to deal with Mr Ps repairs
and Mr P has liaised with the agents in relation to these appointments. I cant see that Mr Ps
particular circumstances made this difficult or onerous, particularly given that D&G offered to
transfer Mr P through to the agent. I also note that after Mr P made this contact and told
D&G its agent hadnt accepted liability, D&G then looked into things further for Mr P as Id
expect.
Overall, Im not persuaded that it was unreasonable of D&G to ask Mr P to speak to its agent
directly in the first instance. Which means, after careful consideration, I dont intend to
uphold this part of Mr Ps complaint either.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman