DRN-2505528
The complaint
Miss K has complained about the poor service Zenith Insurance plc gave her when she 
made a claim under her car insurance policy.
All reference to the insurer Zenith includes its agents.
What happened
In August 2020 Miss K reported to Zenith that her car had been hit while parked and 
unattended. 
Miss K obtained details of a recovery agent that had collected a vehicle in the area that night 
and she passed those details, along with the name of the insurer of the vehicle to Zenith. 
In August 2020 Miss K complained about the poor service she received. She was unhappy 
with the handling of the claim and the wait times when she called Zenith.
Zenith replied to Miss Ks complaint in October 2020. It said that it contacted the recovery 
agent to obtain further information, but due to data protection it couldnt release details of the 
vehicle. But after Miss K contacted it again, Zenith agreed to contact the other insurer and 
provided the recovery agent reference number. It requested a copy of the police report. 
Zenith said the insurer had told them they couldnt trace their customer. So once it received 
the police report, Zenith hoped this would provide further details. 
Zenith said its call volumes were high and it apologised for the wait times. For its poor 
communication it paid Miss K £150 compensation.
Just after it sent its reply to Miss K, Zenith followed up to say it had received the registration 
details and had submitted the allegations to the third party insurer (TPI). 
Miss K remained unhappy and contacted us. She raised other complaints which this service 
is dealing with separately. 
Our investigator agreed that Zenith hadnt handled the claim well but thought the 
compensation it had paid was enough to put things right. 
Miss K didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Zenith should have been more proactive with information Miss K 
provided to it when she made a claim. Its clear from the information provided that Miss K 
had to initiate contact with Zenith and chase for updates and action in contacting the TPI to 
set out the allegations. 
When things go wrong, we look at what the impact was and what an insurer did to put things 
right. 
In this case, I can see Miss K was caused inconvenience by having to contact Zenith and 
chase them to progress her claim. She did this several times, particularly during August 
2020. 
I think its reasonable to expect a degree of inconvenience when having to deal with a claim. 
But Zeniths handling of the claim and its communication was poor and added to the 
inconvenience and time Miss K would have ordinarily been expected to face. 
However, by the end of August 2020, Zenith had set out the allegations to the TPI and so I 
think it had put things right. So I think the compensation it paid Miss K of £150 is fair and in 
line with awards we give for similar circumstances for the distress and inconvenience its 
poor service caused. I understand Miss K will be disappointed, but this means Im not asking 
Zenith to do pay any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman