DRN-2110347
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) didnt send them a letter outlining the 
monthly mortgage repayment at the end of their fixed term.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a fixed-rate mortgage with TSB that was due to end on 31 January 2020. 
In December 2019, they attended a TSB branch and asked about their mortgage rate and 
monthly payments at the end of the fixed term. They said they were told there was a post 
backlog, but should expect a letter shortly.
Mr and Mrs W say they didnt receive a letter, or an annual mortgage statement from TSB. 
And they said a higher amount was debited for the following month as their rate changed 
from the fixed rate, to a variable rate. They complained, saying if theyd have known the 
additional monthly cost, they wouldve re-mortgaged earlier than they did.
TSB says it did send a letter to Mr and Ms W in December 2019 which outlined the expected 
payment at the end of the term, as well as the annual mortgage statement.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He felt that TSB wasnt responsible for the 
letters not reaching Mr and Mrs W once theyd been sent. He also said information about the 
increased payments at the end of the fixed term was given to Mr and Mrs W within their 
mortgage documents from 2017.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed, so this case has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and Im not 
upholding this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have said TSB failed to provide them with the information they need to know 
about their mortgage payments at the end of their fixed term. TSB disagrees, and provided a 
letter addressed to Mr and Mrs W, which was dated 31 December 2019. This outlines the 
end date of the existing mortgage rate, the new rate and monthly payment, and also the 
options available to Mr and Mrs W if they didnt wish to move to this new variable rate. 
Mr and Mrs W say they never received this letter. But it was correctly addressed, and from 
the evidence TSB has provided, Im satisfied it was sent. I dont think it would be fair to hold 
TSB responsible for any issues Mr and Mrs W may have had receiving post. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied TSB provided Mr and Mrs W with the information they 
needed about their mortgage and payments at the end of the fixed term. Mr and Mrs W have 
also said they were told a letter outlining the exact monthly cost was due to be received 
around December 2019. And Ive not seen anything that wouldve prevented them from 
simply calling TSB to discuss this matter if no letter had arrived.
Overall, Im satisfied TSB gave Mr and Mrs W the information they needed and Im not 
asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman