DRN-1298964
 
The complaint
Mr F complains about his card being blocked and a purchase being declined.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Here the parties have provided very different accounts and explanations of what 
happened. Mr F says he tried to use his Vanquis card when shopping. But when he 
inserted the card into the reader at the checkout a message appeared saying the PIN 
was blocked. This happened two more times. In each case Mr F says this was before 
he had inputted his PIN. He says the shop assistant apparently said they hadnt been 
experiencing any card reader issues and it worked fine for the next customer. Mr F 
then used his card in a cash machine and successfully withdrew some money to pay 
for his purchases. 
Vanquis has provided evidence from its system suggesting Mr F had incorrectly 
entered his PIN a number of times on a chip and PIN terminal resulting in it being 
blocked. But it says despite this the card could still be used for cash withdrawals.
For me to uphold this complaint and require Vanquis to do anything more, including 
paying any compensation or reimbursing any extra costs Mr F incurred by using his  
card to withdraw cash, I must be satisfied on balance that it made an error and was 
to blame for what happened. 
But taking everything into account Im not convinced on balance that Vanquis has 
made an error or was at fault for what happened. It may well be that despite the card 
reader apparently working correctly for other customers it may be that some inherent 
problem in it affected only Mr Fs card. And any problem with the card reader 
wouldnt be something I can reasonably hold Vanquis responsible for. 
Furthermore although I understand Mr Fs frustration at what happened, it is 
important that businesses like Vanquis have processes and procedures in place to 
try to identify fraud and transactions that arent genuine. So, when its system 
identified what mightve been a security issue it was reasonable for it to block Mr Fs 
card in line with its security processes, as it did. Its in the nature of processes like 
these that genuine customers, like Mr F, may be inconvenienced by them, but thats 
not to say that Vanquis shouldnt have them in place or that it shouldnt have followed 
them as it did here.
Taking everything into account I dont think I can therfore reasonably require Vanquis 
to do anything more or differently.
 For these reasons, although I recognise Mr Fs strength of feeling and frustration, I do 
not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman