DRN-3685017
The complaint
Mr K complains that TPD Wealth Management Limited (TPD) sold him a level term 
assurance policy in 2016, when he was led to believe he was purchasing a funeral plan.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) defines a vulnerable consumer as someone 
who due to their personal circumstances, is especially susceptible to detriment, 
particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of care. 
Ive not seen any evidence from the point of sale which shouldve alerted TPD that 
Mr K was especially susceptible to detriment or that Mr K lacked the capacity to 
make an informed decision when he took out his policy. I also havent seen any 
evidence that shows TPD was made aware of any vulnerabilities at the time.
As I cant say TPD should have identified any vulnerability at the time, I cant agree 
that it should have insisted on a face to face appointment or for a family member to 
be present solely based on Mr Ks age.
Mr K has responded to our Investigators opinion to highlight that the policy wasnt 
taken out in conjunction with any borrowing, and so wasnt suitable. Ive considered 
this point, but the statement of demand and needs sent at the time shows the sale 
was not an advised one. As the sale was non-advised, TPD only needed to ensure it 
provided Mr K with clear information about the policy for him to make an informed 
choice about whether he wanted to purchase it.
Im satisfied the documentation sent to Mr K was clear about what the policy was  a 
level term policy which provided £6000 payable on death, for a term of seven years. 
The documentation also made it clear that if Mr K was unhappy with the policy he 
could cancel it within 30 days. 
Ive seen no mention of a funeral plan within any of the documentation sent to Mr K 
at the time, so upon inspection of the evidence available Im satisfied TPD made it 
reasonably clear that the policy hed been sold was a form of life insurance and not a 
funeral plan.
Mr K has responded to the view to say that he and his son remember the policy was 
sold as a funeral plan. But for the reasons already outlined Im satisfied on balance 
that TPD made it reasonably clear the policy was life insurance.
As the documentation provided to Mr K was clear about the policy hed taken out, I 
cant say Im persuaded that TPD has acted unreasonably. As I think TPD acted 
fairly, I wont be asking it to do any more.
For these reasons, my decision is to not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman