DRN-3943687
The complaint
Ms D has complained about the way her insurance broker, Insurance Factory Ltd (IF) dealt 
with the cancellation of her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms D took out a motor insurance policy through IF at the start of January 2022. Around two 
weeks later she told IF that she had moved as she had sold her property and was 
temporarily staying at a hotel. IF notified Ms Ds insurer who didnt agree to continue to 
provide cover for her. 
Ms D spoke to her insurer who gave her the option of cancelling the policy herself rather 
than it avoiding it i.e. treating it as if it never existed. Her insurer told her to let IF know so 
that it would progress the cancellation. 
Ms D wrote to IF on 1 February and said she wanted to cancel the policy with immediate 
effect. She later spoke to IF who told her that it couldnt cancel the policy as it didnt have the 
insurers authority to do so.
The insurer later provided authority and IF cancelled the policy on 14 February. It said it 
couldnt get through to Ms D so it cancelled the policy itself rather than allowing her to do it. 
It told Ms D that there was still a balance for her to pay and this included its cancellation fee. 
Ms D didnt agree that she was responsible for any further charges as shed already paid 
around £50 when she took the policy out. She complained about this as well as the fact that 
there was a delay in her policy being cancelled. 
IF didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint. It said its charges were in its terms of business which 
Ms D agreed to when taking out her policy. As a gesture of goodwill IF halved its 
cancellation fee to £25 which left an outstanding balance of £46.13.
Unhappy with IFs response Ms D complained to us. She said she wanted IF to stop chasing 
her for the £46.13 and she also wanted a £25 refund as she believed she had overpaid for 
her policy as it was cancelled later than she requested. 
Our Investigator who reviewed the complaint thought it should be upheld. She said that the 
£50 cancellation fee hadnt been applied fairly because Ms D had no say in the policy being 
cancelled and only did so as she was told by the insurer that it was in her best interests to do 
so. Our Investigator thought the policy should have been cancelled as of 1 February as per 
Ms Ds request and that this was something that the insurer had also agreed to. She thought 
the balance outstanding should be changed to £21.13 made up of the £49.50 arrangement 
fee, £22.38 time on cover (payable to the insurer) less Ms Ds deposit of £50.75.
 
Our Investigator also thought IF should pay Ms D £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her. And she asked IF to provide Ms D with a letter confirming that 
she was the one who cancelled her policy. 
IF didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the £50 cancellation charge 
would have been applicable whether Ms D chose to cancel the policy herself or not. It said 
the insurers decision not to continue to provide cover was also partly due to Ms D having 
undisclosed claims. It said another reason why it wasnt able to progress the cancellation as 
per Ms Ds request was because she refused to agree to pay the cancellation charges. 
Finally, it said the letter about the cancellation should come from the insurer instead. 
While the complaint has been with us the insurer agreed to backdate the policy to show the 
cancellation took place on 1 February and issued a £7.84 refund for Ms Ds time on cover 
which IF was to pay to her. IF didnt pay this to Ms D as it said there was still an outstanding 
balance which Ms D hadnt settled. According to IF the new balance was £38.30. 
The complaint came to me for an Ombudsmans review. Whilst I was considering it, our 
Investigator clarified to the parties that based on the new information from the insurer, in her 
opinion, the balance outstanding would be £13.29 not £21.13 as she said in her view. 
In her response to IF our Investigator added that Ms D had been threatened with a referral to 
a debt collection agency nine days after her policy was cancelled  which she thought was 
done prematurely. In relation to why the cancellation fee should not be charged she noted 
that the policy was only live for under a month, the premium was only around £14 and, in the 
circumstances, charging around £100 in broker fees seemed disproportionate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold it. I should clarify that in this decision I am only 
looking at IFs actions as Ms Ds broker. I am not looking at the actions of her insurer  a 
separate complaint was set up in relation to that and it was considered by our Investigator. 
IFs charges
IFs terms say that a £49.50 arrangement fee will be applicable to single vehicle policies. 
The terms also refer to a £50.00 cancellation fee for policies cancelled outside the 14-day 
cooling off period. The arrangement fee was also set out in a letter from IF to Ms D when 
she took the policy out. 
I think both the cancellation fee and the arrangement fee were clearly set out in IFs terms 
and other correspondence. And I note that Ms D had a single vehicle policy and that her 
policy was cancelled after the 14-day period. Nevertheless, I dont think this necessarily 
means that IF should be able to charge both these fees in these specific circumstances and I 
explain why below. 
Our approach when determining whether charges are fair or not is to decide whether they
were representative of the work undertaken. ICOBS 7 (ICOBS is the insurance Conduct of
Business Sourcebook found in the FCA Handbook) says that an administration fee should
be proportionate to the service provided with no element or profit. Though ICOBS only refers
to charges within the cooling off period of a policy our general approach is that it is fair to
apply this rationale for the whole term of the policy.
As I said above IFs arrangement fee was clearly set out in its terms of business as well as in 
the letter it sent Ms D when her policy was incepted. And I note that it was the one that 
arranged the policy when it was set up.  I, therefore, think it is fair that it charges this fee. IF halved its cancellation fee to £25 instead of £50. Our Investigator didnt think this fee 
should have been charged at all and, in the specific circumstances, I agree. I think an overall 
charge of just under £100 (including the cancellation and administration fee) is high. In 
saying this I have borne in mind the fact that the policy was only live for under a month. And 
the fact that the insurer indicated it wouldnt carry on with the policy 12/13 days after it was 
incepted which was within the cooling off period; though I appreciate that the insurer told IF 
not to cancel the policy at that point because it wanted to take more time to consider whether 
to continue insuring Ms D who had since found a new property. And I have also borne in 
mind that, in essence, this is a policy that the insurer would have otherwise avoided rather 
than cancelled as well as the fact that the premium for the time on cover was around £14 
which means that the majority of what Ms D has paid was brokers fees. 
For these reasons, in these very specific circumstances, I dont think the £50 cancellation 
fee should be charged. And without the cancellation fee, taking into account the recently 
amended premium from the insurer, this would mean that the balance outstanding is £13.29 
and not £38.30. 
Compensation
Our Investigator said that IF should also pay Ms D compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her. IF didnt agree and said it was following the insurers 
instructions when it didnt cancel the policy after Ms D instructed it to do so on 1 February. 
I take IFs point but I dont think its overall service was up to the standard it should have 
been in this particular case. 
IF says it was waiting for the insurer to authorise the cancellation. When the insurer did so, 
IF said it couldnt get through to Ms D and it cancelled the policy itself. I dont think this was 
reasonable in the circumstances as IF knew that it was Ms D who wanted to cancel the 
policy in the first place. And IF must also have known the significance and the difference it 
makes to consumers when they cancel a policy themselves, as opposed to having a policy 
cancelled by an insurer. A cancellation marker can have a lasting impact on their ability to 
take out other policies as well as on their future premiums. And this was in fact what Ms Ds 
insurer was trying to avoid by suggesting that she cancelled the policy. IF said it was difficult 
getting through to Ms D to confirm the cancellation but there were several calls with her and 
also emails so, from what I have seen, Ms D was contactable. And she had given her 
instruction to cancel in writing to IF too, so Im not persuaded that further confirmation was 
necessary.
As I said above, IF cancelled the policy on 14 February. The cancellation letter was sent to 
Ms D by email but also by post to an address IF knew Ms D no longer resided at (and she 
also mentioned this in one of their calls). IF wrote to Ms D on 23 February; nine days after 
the cancellation; to say that if she didnt pay by 1 March it would instruct a debt collection 
agency and that her debt amount might almost double. I think, in the circumstances, where 
Ms D was clearly unhappy with the fees overall, where she had made a complaint to IF and 
to the insurer; such a letter was premature. I accept that Ms D found the threat of being 
referred to a debt collection agency distressing.
  
In the circumstances I think IF should pay Ms D £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her. 
Letter
IF said that a letter saying it was Ms D who cancelled the policy and not the insurer should 
come from the insurer itself. I think its appropriate for IF to ssue the letter in this instance  
as the broker it is also aware of the circumstances of the cancellation. And Ms D was only in 
the position she was  having a cancellation by an insurer or her record  because IF acted 
unfairly by not logging the cancellation as coming from her. My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided to uphold this complaint. Insurance Factory Ltd must:
Amend its records to show that the outstanding balance owed by Ms D for this policy is 
£13.29.
Pay Ms D £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Issue a letter to say that it was Ms D who cancelled the policy in question, so she is able 
to provide this to future insurers and brokers. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms d to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman