DRN-3425970
The complaint
Miss M complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against her medical 
insurance policy.  
What happened
Miss M had private medical insurance with Aviva for some years. She made several 
claims, including for arthroscopy - keyhole surgery - on her knees in 2002, 2010 and 
2015.
In May 2020, Miss M sought treatment for progressive, bilateral, knee stiffness and pain. 
In July 2020, her consultant orthopaedic knee surgeon proceeded with bilateral knee 
injections and Aviva covered that claim. 
In August 2020, Aviva asked Miss Ms consultant for further information. The consultant 
said that surgery wasnt recommended but Miss Ms symptoms could be minimised by 
bilateral knee injections, which was appropriate treatment during the Covid-19 pandemic.  
After considering what Miss Ms consultant said, Aviva told Miss M that future knee pain 
 after 31 January 2021  would be considered a chronic condition and therefore 
excluded under the policy. It said that if she wanted to proceed with treatment aimed at 
permanently resolving her symptoms, i.e. a knee replacement, it would review its 
decision. 
In July 2021, Miss M asked Aviva to cover bilateral arthroscopy to relieve her symptoms. 
Aviva declined Miss Ms claim. It said that Miss Ms knee pain was chronic, and therefore 
not covered under the policy. Aviva said that if any treatment is recommended with a 
view to curing the condition, it would consider further information and reassess the claim. 
Miss M didnt think that was fair, pursued her complaint and cancelled her policy. 
Miss M doesnt understand why Aviva previously paid for arthroscopies but subsequently 
declined her claim. She says that her consultant recommended bilateral arthroscopy to 
resolve her pain and didnt recommend a knee replacement. She wants a refund of the 
premiums she paid since her last arthroscopy in 2015.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Aviva had 
acted unfairly in concluding that Miss M had a chronic condition, the treatment of which 
is excluded in the policy. The investigator said that Miss Ms consultant recommended 
treatment that was designed to provide ongoing control and relief of symptoms. He said 
that Aviva acted fairly in providing cover up to January 2021 - to cover planned treatment 
- and in offering to review the matter if the consultant recommended treatment designed 
to permanently resolve the condition.  
Miss M didnt agree with the investigator. She reiterated that Aviva authorised an 
arthroscopy on her right knee on two occasions but only once on her left knee, but her 
symptoms and her consultants recommendations were the same for both knees. She 
said that she continued to pay the premiums because she thought that treatment for her 
left knee would be authorised. Miss M says that if shed been aware that Aviva wouldnt 
authorise further treatment she would have cancelled her policy after her last 
arthroscopy in 2015. 
Miss M asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows: 
Cover and benefits
[] 
 This policy covers treatment of acute conditions. It does not cover chronic conditions.
An acute condition is defined as a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly 
to treatment which aims to return you to the state of health you were in immediately before 
suffering from it, or which leads to your full recovery.
Exclusions
[]
Chronic conditions
We do not cover treatment of a chronic condition.
In particular:
 regular planned check ups for a chronic condition where you are likely to need treatment
 expected deterioration of a chronic condition which needs regular consultations, 
diagnostic tests or treatment from a specialist.
BUT:
 we do cover unexpected acute flare-ups of a chronic condition until your condition is    
re-stabilised []
Definitions
[]
Chronic condition
A disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics:
 it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups 
and/or tests
 it needs ongoing or long term control or relief of symptoms
 it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
 it continues indefinitely
 it has no known cure
 it comes back or is likely to come back.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding Miss Ms 
complaint because I dont think that Aviva treated her unfairly. I say that because:Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that their 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Subject to the policy terms, Miss Ms policy covers eligible treatment of an acute 
condition. An acute condition is a disease, illness or injury thats likely to respond 
quickly to treatment which aims to return Miss M to the state of health she was in 
immediately before the condition or which leads to a full recovery. 
Ive set out above the exclusion in the policy in relation to chronic conditions. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that Aviva acted unfairly in concluding that 
Miss Ms knee pain was a chronic condition and therefore excluded under the 
policy. 
Miss Ms consultant said that surgery wasnt recommended. He recommended 
bilateral injections to minimise her symptoms. Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
further arthroscopy would restore Miss M to the position she was in before she 
suffered from knee pain or lead to a full recovery. So, I dont think that Aviva acted 
unfairly in either concluding that Miss Ms knee pain was a chronic condition and 
therefore excluded under the policy or in declining her claim for further arthroscopy.
Aviva offered to review the matter if Miss M wanted to proceed with treatment 
aimed at permanently resolving her symptoms. I think that was fair. 
Theres no basis on which I could fairly direct Aviva to refund premiums Miss M 
paid since her arthroscopy in 2015. Miss Ms policy provided cover for eligible 
treatment during that time and Miss M made successful claims, including a claim 
for  the injections she had in 2020. Aviva is entitled to retain the premium and didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably in doing so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman