DRN-4270083
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Unum Ltd has turned down an incapacity claim she made on a group 
income protection insurance policy.
Mrs G is represented by a solicitor, but for ease of reading, Ill refer to Mrs G throughout.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So I havent set it out in 
detail here. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key events.
Mrs G was insured under her employers group income protection policy. The policy 
provided cover in the event that Mrs G was unable to work in her own occupation, as a result 
of illness or injury. The deferred period was 26 weeks.
In May 2021, Mrs G became absent from work, suffering from anxiety. Shed worked 
throughout the Covid-19 pandemic and she said symptoms of anxiety and depression had 
been building-up during that time. Her GP continued to sign Mrs G off work and in August 
2021, her employer made an incapacity claim on the policy.
Unum requested medical evidence to allow it to assess the claim. It calculated that Mrs Gs 
deferred period would end on 15 November 2021 and so it determined that Mrs G needed to 
show shed been incapacitated due to illness for the whole of the deferred period. Having 
considered the medical evidence, it acknowledged Mrs G had been prescribed anti- 
depressant medication and had been referred for self-guided cognitive behavioural therapy 
(CBT) during the deferred period. But it didnt think there was enough medical evidence to 
show that Mrs G was clinically limited or functionally restricted from performing her own 
occupation. And it considered that the trigger for Mrs Gs absence had been anxiety 
surrounding Covid-19 and concerns about work. So it didnt think Mrs G had met the policy 
definition of incapacity and it turned down her claim.
Mrs G was unhappy with Unums decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. Briefly, he 
considered the available medical evidence. And he felt it had been fair for Unum to conclude 
that Mrs G hadnt met the policy definition of incapacity for the whole of the deferred period. 
Therefore, he thought it had been reasonable for Unum to turn down Mrs Gs claim.
Mrs G disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Following the investigators assessment, Mrs G provided us with new evidence from her GP 
which related to her mental health during the deferred period. She also confirmed that her 
employment had ended in October 2022, after she was dismissed on capability grounds. I 
noted too that it appeared Mrs G had been entitled to full sick pay until December 2021 and 
she was then entitled to half pay.
The new evidence and information about Mrs Gs sick pay entitlement was sent to Unum for 
its review and comments. Ill summarise these briefly:
The GP hadnt given any timescale for Mrs Gs recovery; prospect of her returning to 
work or commented on her prognosis and response to treatment;
Neither the GP nor a CBT practitioner (whod opined that Mrs G wasnt fit for work) 
had offered any comment on Mrs Gs functional impairment as the result of her 
mental health presentation;
Both the GPs and CBT practitioners letters were issued at least nine months after 
the start date of the deferred period. Neither stated when a diagnosis of depression 
and anxiety was made. The original medical evidence had showed a lack of 
consistent symptomology with a persistent presentation to meet the diagnostic 
criteria for depression or anxiety. Neither author had offered any insight or comment 
on how Mrs Gs mental health presentation would affect her overall functioning;
Mrs G was prescribed anti-depressant medication, which was incrementally 
increased during the deferred period. But her dosage remained the same for some 
months, which indicated that her mental health had been stable on this dosage. Mrs 
G had originally been referred for self-guided CBT, which clinical guidelines indicated 
was for less severe depression. While Mrs G was later referred for one-to-one CBT, it 
wasnt clear when this had been deemed clinically appropriate;
Mrs Gs medical records indicated that she felt she was being bullied at work. Her 
anxiety was largely focused on exposure to Covid-19 and whether other people were 
following the Covid-19 guidance. There was a lack of evidence to support a 
diagnosable mental illness during the period in question;
Unum could potentially consider a new claim for proportionate benefit for the period 
Mrs G was being paid half-pay, if Mrs Gs condition had deteriorated within 12 
months of the deferred period start date. This would be dependent on the policy 
being live at that point and it would be for Mrs G to decide if she wanted a later 
period considered, as she had not asked Unum to consider this.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 June 2023, which explained the reasons why I thought 
it had been fair for Unum to conclude that Mrs G hadnt shown that she met the policy 
definition of incapacity for the whole of the deferred period. I said:
First, Id like to reassure Mrs G that while Ive summarised the background to her complaint 
and her detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all thats been said and sent. 
Im very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mrs G needing to make a claim 
and I dont doubt what a worrying and upsetting time this has been for her.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive thought about, amongst other things, 
the terms of this policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether Unum handled 
Mrs Gs claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Mrs 
Gs employers contract with Unum. Mrs Gs employer made a claim on her behalf for 
incapacity benefit, given she wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate 
for Unum to consider whether Mrs Gs claim met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive 
turned then to look Unums definition of incapacity. This says:
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are:- Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of 
the insured occupation, and are
- Not performing any occupation.
This means that in order for Unum to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that its a 
policyholders illness which prevents them from carrying out their main duties of their own 
occupation. In Mrs Gs case, it means that Unum needs to be satisfied that it was an illness 
which prevented her from performing the material and substantial duties of her insured role.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Mrs Gs responsibility to provide Unum with enough 
evidence to demonstrate that her illness had led to her being incapacitated in line with the 
policy terms.
Unum assessed the evidence Mrs G provided in support of her claim and concluded that it 
didnt indicate that she had a significant, impairing mental health condition or that she met 
the policy definition of incapacity. So Ive next looked at the available medical evidence to 
assess whether I think this was a fair conclusion for Unum to draw.
The policy says: you will be entitled to the benefits shown in the coverage section when a 
member has been unable to work, because of incapacity, for longer than the deferred 
period. This means that in order for benefit to be paid, a policyholder mustve been 
incapacitated in line with the policy terms, for the entire deferred period and afterwards.
Mrs Gs deferred period ended on 15 November 2021 and so the benefit became payable 
under the policy from 16 November 2021. So for the claim to be payable, Mrs G needed to 
provide Unum with evidence to show that she had been prevented from carrying out the 
material and substantial duties of her insured occupation because of an illness.
When Mrs Gs employer first made a claim on her behalf, a claim form was submitted to 
Unum. Ive looked closely at the claim form, to understand what Mrs G and her employer 
understood to be the cause of her illness. Mrs G recorded that she constantly felt down, 
depressed and hopeless, also feeling anxious and on-edge. She noted that she was under 
the care of a psychological well-being practitioner.
Mrs Gs employer noted that a factor for her absence was issues with Covid-19 when seeing 
customers face-to-face. It recorded Mrs Gs cause of absence as work-related stress.
Unum also reviewed Mrs Gs medical records for the relevant period and so Ive considered 
these too. I can see that on 17 May 2021, a GP noted that Mrs G was feeling low in mood 
and anxious for a few months. (Shed) been workingall through lockdownWould like to 
take some time off work, not coping with work at the moment. The GP prescribed Mrs G 
with an anti-depressant and provided her with a number for IAPT  a talking therapy service.
Subsequently, on 24 May 2021, a GP issued a fit note for four weeks, signing Mrs G as unfit 
to work due to depression.
It appears that Mrs G underwent an IAPT assessment on 1 June 2021. During the 
assessment, Mrs G stated that the problem had onset over 12 months; shed been a key 
worker; had had to self-isolate due to a co-worker having Covid-19 and her husband had 
had Covid-19. The record stated that Mrs G wanted help now for: Covid changes at work 
and anxiety. And Mrs Gs problem statement included the following:
My main problem is and since Covid March 2020 and being a key workerI have experienced growing levels of anxiety associated with the pandemic people (sic) not sticking 
to guidance.
The assessment noted that Mrs G had been offered support through work, but that she didnt 
wish to explore this.
On 4 June 2021, Mrs Gs medication dosage was increased by 50mg per day. Over the 
following months, Mrs G was issued with further fit notes which stated that she wasnt fit to 
work because of depression. Its also clear that she attended self-guided CBT sessions and 
workshops and discussed her symptoms with CBT practitioners. And on 25 August 2021, 
Mrs Gs psychological well-being practitioner recorded that Mrs G: aware mood worsens 
when ruminates about Covid, work  being bullied by colleagues, feeling others putting 
pressure on her...
Subsequently, on 22 October 2021, Unum spoke with Mrs G. During the call, Mrs G told the 
claims handler that shed been suffering with anxiety for some time due to Covid-19. Shed 
worked throughout lockdown as a key worker, but a few days before she became absent, 
she had a meeting with a manager, broke down and went to bed for days. This version of 
events is also set out in Mrs Gs representations to us, which say that during the pandemic, 
Mrs G had become concerned about the arrangements at work, which meant shed been 
reluctant to have face-to-face meetings. The submissions stated that few steps had been 
taken to alleviate Mrs Gs concerns and she became the subject of severe bullying. During 
the meeting with her manager, Mrs G was asked how she was going to move forward from 
her concerns and during the meeting, Mrs G had become distressed and left work and 
hadnt returned since that date.
Unum assessed the available medical and other evidence, including with clinical members of 
staff. While it sympathised with Mrs Gs position, it concluded that the evidence didnt 
indicate that she was suffering from a mental illness which prevented her from carrying out 
her role. Instead, it felt that Mrs G was suffering with a reaction to her circumstances and 
that there wasnt evidence to suggest that she was suffering with a significant mental health 
condition of a severity which affected her day-to-day ability to function.
Ive thought very carefully about this. I must make it clear that Im not a medical expert and 
therefore, my decisions must necessarily be based on an assessment of the available 
medical evidence. Its clear that Mrs G was suffering from symptoms which can also be 
indicative of a significant mental health condition. But at the point Mrs G was signed-off in 
May 2021, the evidence indicates that the reason she wasnt fit for work was because she 
wasnt coping at work, rather than because of a significant, impairing mental health 
condition. And by Mrs Gs account, the trigger for her absence appears to have been the 
meeting with a manager. While I appreciate her fit notes stated depression at this time, the 
notes dont indicate how Mrs G was precluded from work in May 2021 and nor do they show 
that she was functionally impaired when the deferred period began.
So I think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude that the evidence showed that Mrs G was 
suffering from an understandable reaction to the very difficult situation in which she found 
herself, as opposed to a mental health condition which met the definition of incapacity for the 
whole of the deferred period. This means I dont think it was unfair for Unum to consider that 
Mrs G hadnt met the policy definition of incapacity for the entirety of the deferred period.
Since Unum issued its final response to Mrs Gs complaint, Mrs G has provided new medical 
evidence from a GP dated March 2023, which Ive carefully considered. The GP said that 
Mrs G had spoken to another GP on 17 May 2021, as she was severely depressed. Shed 
spoken to another GP a week later, whod issued a fit note. In July 2021, it was noted that 
Mrs Gs increased-dose anti-depressant had been found to be working for her. In November 2021, Mrs G had been placed on a waiting list for CBT. The letter noted that in January 
2022, Mrs G had met with the GP who wrote the letter and at that point, her anxiety had 
become worse. Her anti-depressant dosage was again increased. The letter went on to 
discuss Mrs Gs medical situation throughout the remainder of 2022 and early 2023.
Ive borne in mind that the GP has referred to Mrs G having had severe depression in May 
2021. However, I dont think the contemporaneous GP notes dated 17 May 2021 indicate 
that the GP felt Mrs G had severe depression at that point but suggest she had had low 
mood and anxiety for some time. And Ive borne in mind that the GP who wrote the letter 
doesnt appear to have been dealing with Mrs Gs care before January 2022  which post- 
dated the deferred period. Its clear that by November 2021, Mrs G was waiting for one-to- 
one CBT, but it isnt clear from the notes at what point her symptoms had potentially 
worsened or when a one-to-one CBT approach had been deemed necessary. Neither does 
the letter state how Mrs G was unable to carry out the material and substantial duties of her 
role from May 2021 onwards.
On that basis then, I currently dont think it was unfair for Unum to conclude that this 
evidence didnt change its position and to maintain its decision that Mrs G hadnt shown she 
met the policy definition of incapacity during the full deferred period.
Id add too that income protection policies are designed to replace a policyholders income if 
theyre unable to work due to illness or injury. Most, if not all, insurance policies say that an 
insurer will take into account any other income a claimant is receiving when they calculate 
benefit. The terms of this policy include such a provision. In this case, the evidence from Mrs 
Gs employer indicates that she was being paid full pay until December 2021. So it isnt at all 
clear that at the point the deferred period ended, in November 2021, Mrs G had any loss of 
her income. And it seems to me that Unum wouldve been entitled to take any sick pay Mrs 
G was receiving into account when assessing if benefit was due. Its entirely possible that 
Mrs G wouldnt have been entitled to any benefit until after her full sick pay had run out.
It appears that Mrs G was entitled to half-pay after December 2021. A letter from her 
employer suggests this would be for 130 days, at which point she wouldve reverted to no 
occupational sick pay from that point onwards. If Mrs G feels that her symptoms deteriorated 
after November 2021, she may wish to explore the possibility of making a new claim for the 
period after her full sick pay ended. Unum has indicated that she may be able to do so and 
potentially make a claim for proportionate benefit, if her condition had deteriorated within 
12months of the date of first absence, even though she hadnt returned to work. Unum has 
stressed that it would depend on the policy being live at that point and on Mrs G asking it to 
consider a new claim. I make no finding as to whether any such claim would be covered by 
the policy terms or whether it would be successful  it would be for Unum to assess any new 
claim and accompanying evidence in line with the policy terms. Im aware that Mrs Gs 
employment ended in October 2022, so Mrs G may wish to discuss her options with Unum 
before deciding whether or not to make a new claim. 
As I intend to find that Unum was entitled to conclude that Mrs G hadnt met the policy 
definition of incapacity for the entirety of the deferred period between May and November 
2021, Mrs G wont be able to make a new claim for that particular period. Although it remains 
open to her to provide more medical evidence to Unum which demonstrates she was 
incapacitated for the full deferred period should she choose to do so.
Overall though, despite my natural sympathy with Mrs Gs position, I currently find it was fair 
and reasonable for Unum to turn down her income protection claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.Unum accepted my provisional findings. But Mrs G did not and Ive summarised her 
solicitors further representations below:
There were repeated references in the provisional decision to Mrs Gs concerns 
about Covid-19 and bullying at work. These are clearly causative matters. There is 
nothing in the policy definition of incapacity which permits an insurer to take into 
account causative matters when assessing whether a claimant meets the policy 
definition of incapacity;
It cannot be denied that Mrs G was suffering from depression at all relevant times. 
The earliest diagnosis was made on 24 May 2021 and that diagnosis has continued 
to date. When Mrs G was first absent on 17 May 2021, it was on the doctors advice 
and she was immediately prescribed anti-depressants. Mrs G felt these were actions 
indicative of a medical professional clearly recognising a serious mental health 
condition. When Mrs Gs own testimony and the GP notes are taken together, the 
solicitor felt it wasnt reasonable to conclude that Mrs G didnt meet the policy 
definition of incapacity;
Mrs G disputed too that it was reasonable for Unum to conclude that she didnt have 
a serious mental health condition. Mrs G had been through all of the relevant testing; 
had been prescribed anti-depressants and met many of the symptoms which would 
be used in the diagnosis of anxiety and depression (as set out in a well-regarded 
medical journal);
Mrs G didnt think Unum had handled the claim fairly. Neither Unum nor her employer 
had told her that she could look into making a new claim for proportionate benefit and 
then full benefit once her sick pay became zero. All correspondence had been 
focused on leaving Mrs G with the impression that she wasnt entitled to any benefit. 
It hadnt been fair for Unum not to make this clear to Mrs G, given it was aware of her 
illness. Had it done so, it was likely Mrs G wouldve made a new claim at a much 
earlier stage  and she wouldve been unlikely to bring a complaint to this service;
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs G, I still think it was fair for Unum to 
conclude that she hadnt met the policy definition of incapacity throughout the entire deferred 
period and Ill explain why.
I acknowledge Mrs Gs point that the policy definition of incapacity doesnt explicitly refer to 
what factors Unum should assess when considering whether the definition has been met. 
Neither do I dispute that it may well be the case that an initial cause of depression (such as 
bullying at work) may ultimately result in a significant, impairing mental health condition. But 
in assessing whether a member has met the definition of incapacity, Unum needs to 
consider whether that member has shown their illness would prevent them from carrying out 
the material and substantial duties of their own occupation for any employer  not just their 
current employer. As such, it may be the case that where the cause of a members 
symptoms are work-related stress or bullying, their illness may resolve if they carried out 
their own occupation for another employer. So I wouldnt generally or necessarily think its 
unfair or unreasonable for an insurer to take into account the causes of a claimants 
symptoms when assessing claims. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, its clear that both the GP and Mrs Gs CBT practitioner did state that Mrs G had a diagnosis of depression and anxiety. I accept too that 
the GP notes record a diagnosis of depression very soon after Mrs G was first absent from 
work and that she was prescribed anti-depressant medication. I dont doubt that she wasnt 
fit to work, nor that shes gone through a difficult time.
But in order for Unum to conclude that the definition of incapacity has been met, it needs to 
be satisfied that Mrs G was prevented from carrying out the material and substantial duties 
of her role because of her illness as opposed to her circumstances and the situation at work. 
Ive carefully weighed-up the GP and CBT practitioners evidence, alongside the evidence of 
Unums CMO (which I summarised in the background to this complaint). The CMO didnt 
think the medical evidence commented on Mrs Gs level of functional impairment as a result 
of her illness, nor how her symptoms wouldve affected her overall functioning. And they felt 
the fact that Mrs Gs medication dosage had been stable after June 2021 indicated that her 
mental state had also been stable. Taking into account all of the available evidence, I dont 
think Unum has reached an unreasonable decision. I dont think it was unfair for the CMO to 
conclude that there wasnt enough medical evidence of functional impairment or of a 
significant mental health condition which wouldve resulted in the incapacity definition being 
met. As I set out above though, it remains open to Mrs G to provide Unum with more 
evidence on this point should she wish to do so.
It's clear Mrs G feels strongly that Unum should have explained the option of making a new 
claim to her. Unums role was to assess whether Mrs G met the definition of incapacity at the 
point the claim was first made. I wouldnt necessarily have expected it to be aware of Mrs 
Gs future sick pay arrangements at that time and it couldnt have reasonably predicted 
whether Mrs Gs symptoms would deteriorate or whether shed return to work. The policy 
terms set out that a new claim can be made if a member doesnt return to work and 
therefore, this was an option which was open to Mrs Gs employer, as the policyholder. I 
appreciate that Mrs G may not have felt the need to refer a complaint to this service had she 
been aware of this option, but I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Unum 
responsible for Mrs Gs choice to ask us to look into whether it handled her original claim 
fairly. Its still the case that Mrs G can explore the option of making a new claim should she 
wish to, although I cant comment on the what the outcome of any new claim would be.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mrs Gs position, I find that it was fair and reasonable for 
Unum to turn down her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman