DRN-4162293
The complaint
Mr H is complaining about the timing of a mobile app notification he received from Lloyds 
Bank PLC.
What happened
Mr H has a current account with Lloyds. Hes told us that he doesnt keep funds in his 
account due to security concerns. He has been relying on the notifications from Lloyds 
mobile banking app to let him know when a direct debit is leaving his account, so he can 
then pay funds into the account to make sure its covered. He says he cant rely on text 
messages because his mobile phone cant store many texts, so he often doesnt receive 
them.
Just after 1am on 20 September 2022 a direct debit payment left Mr Hs account. At around 
8.30am Lloyds sent Mr H a text message to let him know that hed entered an unarranged 
overdraft and needed to pay in cleared funds by 2.30pm that day. Mr H didnt pay any 
money into his account. So the direct debit was returned unpaid at around 2.50pm.
At 11.57pm Mr H received notification from the app that the direct debit payment had left his 
account. But by this time, it had already been returned unpaid - so he was unable to pay in 
cleared funds to prevent this.
Mr H complained to Lloyds that the app notification had arrived too late for him to pay in 
cleared funds. Lloyds responded to say theyd sent a text message letting Mr H know that he 
needed to pay in cleared funds by 2.30pm, so they thought hed had enough time to pay 
funds into his account. 
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator looked into it. He didnt think Lloyds 
had done anything wrong. He said, in summary, that how Lloyds operates their app is a 
business decision and not something we could generally interfere with. And he thought it 
was Mr Hs responsibility to manage his account to ensure there were sufficient funds to pay 
the direct debit. He thought Lloyds had done enough to let Mr H know hed need to pay in 
cleared funds by 2.30pm to prevent the direct debit being returned unpaid.
Mr H disagreed. He replied to say, in summary, that hed like the app notifications to be sent 
as soon as the direct debit leaves his account, so he can pay in funds immediately  and 
theres no point in them being sent after the cut off time to pay in cleared funds. He said he 
uses another bank which does offer this service. Hes also told us that recently, hes stopped 
receiving any notifications at all from the app about his direct debits.
Mr Hs complaint has now been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds have sent us their guidance relating to push notifications on the mobile app, which 
explains that notifications will either be instant, or sent at certain times. In relation to direct 
debit notifications, it says the following:
If a direct debit leaves the account overnight, the notification will be delivered during the 
day.
In this case, Mr H received the app notification later in the same day after the direct debit left 
his account in the early hours. So this is in line with how Lloyds app operates. 
Lloyds have chosen not to send immediate app notifications when a direct debit payment 
leaves the account. This is a business decision about how their mobile app operates, and as 
the investigators explained, theyre entitled to use their commercial judgment to make these 
sorts of decisions.
I do understand why it would have been frustrating for Mr H to have received the app 
notification of the direct debt leaving his account too late to pay in funds to cover it. I can see 
how it would be more convenient for him to receive the app notifications earlier, given that 
hes told us manages his account using them, rather than text messages. But this doesnt 
mean that Lloyds have done anything wrong here. I cant see that theyve ever told Mr H that 
the direct debit app notifications would be instant. The way they run their app notifications 
just doesnt work with how Mr H chooses to manage his account. 
Mr H has told us hes now not receiving any app notifications for direct debit payments. 
Lloyds havent told us theyve withdrawn this service, so there may be another reason for 
this relating to Mr Hs settings or handset. But ultimately this is something hell need to 
continue to explore with Lloyds directly. 
Overall, I dont think Lloyds have made a mistake here or have treated Mr H unfairly. So, Im 
not going to ask them to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman