DRN-3970699
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) incorrectly closed one 
of his current accounts when they shouldnt have.
What happened
Mr G says he held three current accounts with Halifax. On one of those accounts (loan B), 
Mr G was offered an interest free arranged overdraft facility of up to £500. This meant the 
first £500 of his arranged overdraft would be interest free but he would be charged on any 
balance above £500. Mr G also had the option to apply for a fixed rate refinancing loan 
which was used to reduce his arranged overdraft balance to £500. This was because there 
was a lower interest rate on the fixed rate refinancing loan compared to any borrowing above 
£500 on Mr Gs overdraft facility.
The terms of the refinancing loan say that Mr G would not be offered any further lending or 
arranged overdraft increases in the next 12 months. Mr G took Halifax up on their offer in 
September 2020 and took out a refinancing loan with them.
In December 2020, Mr G contacted Halifax through their chat function in his banking app. He 
asked them to close two accounts he held with them (loan A) and (loan C). Mr G says he 
made it clear which of his accounts he would like closed. Mr G says Halifax confirmed the 
accounts had been closed.
Mr G says he checked the accounts the following day and noticed loan C had been correctly 
closed, but also loan B had been incorrectly closed.
Mr G says he contacted Halifax and told them an incorrect account had been closed. He 
says he asked them to reinstate it with the overdraft facility that was already on it. He says 
Halifax told him they were unable to reinstate the account, but offered £100 as 
compensation in an attempt to resolve the matter. Mr G also says Halifax suggested for him 
to apply for another overdraft facility with his remaining account.
Mr G says he explained to Halifax that this wouldnt solve the situation. He explained that he 
had received a refinance loan. This had reduced his overdraft facility from £2,500 to £500 
and the terms of his refinance loan say he is unable to access any further overdraft facility 
for 12 months, starting from September 2020.
Unhappy, Mr G complained to Halifax.
In December 2020, Halifax responded to Mr G. They upheld his complaint and said it was a 
genuine human error as to why the wrong account was closed. They also explained that 
neither the account or overdraft could be reinstated and that he would need to apply for the 
overdraft facility again. Halifax said they would give £300 as compensation for their error and 
said he should receive it in his account within 48 hours.
Unhappy with Halifax response, Mr G referred his complaint to our service. Mr G says the 
unexpected closing of the account has had a distressing impact on him. He says he had the 
account for many years and it was in good standing and was happy with it. He says he 
intended to use the overdraft facility as a safety net, but no longer had that option. He also 
says he signed the refinance loan on the basis of having a £500 overdraft facility, and now 
no longer has it, and also cant reapply for the facility due to the terms set out in his 
refinance loan.
Our investigator asked Halifax why they couldnt reinstate the current account and the 
overdraft facility attached to it, but didnt receive a response. Our investigator later issued 
her view and thought Halifax needed to do more to put things right. She explained that she 
was pleased Halifax compensated Mr G with £300, however she wasnt satisfied they had 
put things right. She explained, to put Mr G back in the position he would have been in, had 
they not made the mistake in the first place, Halifax should reinstate the incorrect account 
closed and reinstate the overdraft facility attached to it.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators view and asked for the case to be referred to an 
ombudsman. He says he still wants the account reopened but doesnt feel the compensation 
accurately reflects the disruption and damage caused by the incorrect closing of his account. 
He says he would like the compensation increased to £2,800. He says he also wouldnt want 
to have to go through another credit check to reopen the account.
Mr G went on to explain that he feels he had a longstanding relationship with Halifax and this 
has adversely affected his credit report as the account was closed and the knock on impact 
of obtaining further credit at a higher cost.
Our investigator explained that she still thinks the £300 compensation given is fair, alongside 
her instructions to reinstate the current account incorrectly closed and reinstate the overdraft 
facility that was in place. She says, among other things, that changing banks can happen at 
any time and she didnt think building a relationship with another bank would cause such an 
impact where the compensation should be increased. She was also not able to conclude that 
the closing of the account would have impacted Mr Gs credit file. 
Halifax also responded to our investigator and said that their banking systems do not allow 
us to reinstate or re-open an account as there is no facility to do this. They also say all 
overdraft facilities are subject to financial circumstances and borrowing history and are not 
guaranteed to stay on an account. They also say an overdraft is repayable on demand and 
is subject to review, so there is no guarantee that the £500 overdraft would have remained 
on his account had it stayed open.
Our investigator responded to Halifax and explained that while there is no guarantee an 
overdraft would stay on an account, this doesnt change her opinion on that the account and 
overdraft was closed in error, through no fault of Mr G. And had it not been for Halifax error, 
it would still have likely stayed open and in use.
Our investigator then issued a further view and instructed Halifax to make a further payment 
of £200 to reflect that Halifax couldnt put Mr G back into the position he would have been in 
had they not made the error. Halifax accepted our investigators findings.
Mr G still disagreed with the investigators findings and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
It isnt in dispute Halifax has made an error, so I dont think I need to make a finding on this 
in this instance. So, what I need to consider here is whether what Halifax has offered is a fair 
way to resolve things. And, if not, what I think Halifax should do to put things right.
Usually, when a business has made a mistake and a complaint is brought to our service, I 
would normally look to place the consumer back in to the position they would have been in, if 
the mistake had never occurred. But in this instance, it seems it would be problematic to do 
so as Halifax say it is not possible for them to reopen Mr Gs incorrectly closed account and 
reinstate the overdraft facility that was attached to it.
Halifax has credited Mr Gs account with £300 as compensation for their error. Mr G thinks if 
Halifax cant reopen his closed account a fair amount of compensation to resolve the matter 
should be around £2,800. I have thought carefully about things here.
It is disappointing Halifax are unable to reopen the closed account. They say it is as they do 
not have the facility to do so. They went on to say that all overdraft facilities are subject to 
financial circumstances and borrowing history and are not guaranteed to stay on an account 
or to stay open. 
I appreciate Halifax comments here, and while I accept what they have said, it doesnt 
change the fact that Mr G has lost out due to their error. Having reviewed Mr Gs account 
statement for loan B, Mr G was a regular user of his overdraft facility, and I can see it was 
last used in the months before the account was closed. An overdraft facility provides an 
element of flexibility in borrowing which Mr G previously benefited from, but lost out on due 
to Halifax error.
Considering Mr Gs use of the overdraft facility, I havent seen anything to suggest he would 
have chosen to close the overdraft facility himself, or following a review of it, that Halifax 
would have had reason to close it. So, I think it was likely Mr G would have retained the 
overdraft facility on the account upon its next review.
Mr G has also told us that he wouldnt have been able to open or apply for another credit 
facility due to the refinancing agreement he had already taken out. He has told our service at 
length of the impact this has had on him, and the distress it has caused him to have the lack 
of flexibility in the borrowing he had in place. Im persuaded by what Mr G has told our 
service here. 
Thinking about things here, and considering Halifax are unable to reopen Mr Gs account 
and reinstate his previous overdraft facility, I think Halifax needs to do more on this occasion. 
I think a further payment of £200 compensation should be given to Mr G to further reflect the 
inconvenience the loss of the current account and overdraft facility has had on him.
Mr G believes a higher amount of compensation is warranted as a resolution. While it may 
disappoint Mr G to hear, I dont think compensation of around £2,800 is fair in this instance. 
An award that high would normally be appropriate where a business mistakes cause 
sustained distress, potentially affecting someones health, or causing severe disruption to 
daily life which would typically last over a lengthy period. And I dont think what Mr G has told 
our service can be considered so severe. I accept Mr G has been caused some distress due 
to Halifax mistake and significant inconvenience due to the closure of his current account, 
so I think an award of £500 in total is a fair way to resolve things here.
Mr G says he held a long-standing relationship with Halifax and by losing that relationship 
and trying to build one with another bank, this has impacted his credit file. While I accept some distress would have been caused from the account closure, I dont think changing 
bank providers should warrant an increase in compensation in line with what Mr G has 
suggested. I also havent seen any evidence to show that having to build a relationship with 
another banking provider has impacted Mr Gs credit file.
Putting things right
Having considered the impact Halifaxs mistake has had on Mr G, I think it is fair and 
reasonable for Halifax to pay a total of £500 for the trouble and upset this has caused him.
Halifax may deduct any compensation they have already paid Mr G in relation to the matter 
from the above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman