DRN-1887154
The complaint
Mrs and Mr L complain that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) caused a leak but wont 
cover the cost of repairing the damage. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr L jointly held HomeCare Four home emergency cover, including plumbing and 
electrics, with BG. For ease, I will refer only to Mrs L throughout my decision.
Mrs L asked BG to investigate the banging noise she could hear when using the cold water 
tap in her kitchen. The cause of the noise wasnt clear, so BG attended on a few occasions 
over the next two months to eliminate possible sources. 
Later, Mrs L noticed damp walls, carpet and bubbled paint by the stoptap, which had been 
hidden by an umbrella stand. She called BG and on investigation it identified a loose part. 
The repair stopped the banging noise, but BG damaged the plasterwork in the process.
Mrs L complained that BGs previous work had caused the leak and asked it to repair the 
damage. While having the lead pipes replaced in her home, she also found that the damp 
had spread through to the adjoining room. Mrs L asked BG to cover the cost of that damage 
too.
BG rejected her claim because it didnt think it had caused the leak.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint because the evidence presented by both parties 
showed no evidence of damp on previous visits. And although BG admitted its engineer 
caused some damage when replacing the stop tap handle, our investigator didnt think the 
damage required any additional repair to that already necessary because of the damp.
Mrs L didnt agree. She thought BG mustve caused the leak during its investigation.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will disappoint Mrs L, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint for broadly 
the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain.
Its clear that BG visited Mrs Ls home on several occasions to identify the cause of the noise 
coming from the pipes. But the key issue in dispute is whether or not BG caused the leak 
which damaged her home and, if it did, whether it should pay for repairs. So, while Ive 
looked at all evidence available, my decision will focus on this point.
BG took photos of Mrs Ls property during its investigation and the area around the stoptap 
features in those photos. In the first set of photos, its clear to see that the stoptap handle 
has broken off, leaving a sharp end protruding. The wall behind and at the side appears dry 
with no evidence of mould or bubbled paint. In the final set of photos, taken two months later 
when BG visited after Mrs L reported the damp, the stoptap handle is still missing but the 
surrounding wall is mouldy and evidently damp. The photos from the previous month dont 
show the stoptap at all.
Based on this evidence alone, I can understand why Mrs L thinks BG caused a leak  the 
wall wasnt damp, BG carried out repairs in her home, two months later the walls were 
damp. 
So, Ive looked at the repair notes but theres no indication that the engineer did anything 
with the stoptap during the visits before Mrs L reported the damp wall. I understand that her 
recollection is that BG replaced the stoptap handle on the first visit. Here, though, the photos 
provide clear evidence that the handle wasnt replaced until the final visit. BGs photos of the 
damp wall show the stoptap still with the sharp broken end and no evidence of tool marks to 
suggest any work had been done on it. Further photos from the same visit show the stoptap 
again with the new handle. The evidence here persuades me that BG didnt work on the 
stoptap until the final visit and after the leak had already damaged Mrs Ls home.
Im aware that Mrs Ls independent plumbers report says that BG wouldnt have used tools 
that would leave marks, so the photo doesnt prove it didnt work on the stoptap. In which 
case, there wouldnt be marks on the stoptap regardless of whether BG worked on it or not. 
So I cant reach any fair conclusions based on the absence of tool marks. 
Those same photos show me that BG damaged the wall when replacing the stoptap and 
fixing the loose part. BG doesnt dispute this. Ordinarily, I mightve asked BG to repair the 
damage it caused because that would be the fair thing to do. But in the circumstances of this 
complaint I dont think thats of any benefit. Ive concluded that BG didnt cause the leak 
which led to the damp in Mrs Ls home. So Mrs L wouldve had to bear the cost of the repairs 
either personally or through her home insurance. The relatively small amount of damage BG 
caused was to the damp wall  and because it was damp - which Mrs L would need to have 
replastered anyway. So BG hasnt caused any additional loss or additional cost to the 
repairs that Mrs L wouldve paid for if it hadnt damaged the wall. For that reason, I dont 
think its reasonable to ask BG to carry out or pay for the repairs to Mrs Ls wall.
In summary, the evidence doesnt support Mrs Ls view that BG caused a leak which 
resulted in water damage to her home. So, it would be unreasonable for me to direct BG to 
repair a wall which already needed repairing.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman