DRN-3276264
The complaint
Mr P complains about his insurer, Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral), declining 
a claim under his home insurance policy for damage to an item of electrical equipment. 
What happened
After a power cut at Mr Ps property in September 2020 he noticed three items of electrical 
equipment werent working properly. He thought this was due to a power surge linked to the 
power cut and contacted Admiral to claim for the damage to one of the items. The item was 
an audio unit, part of a home cinema system, which was a specified item under Mr Ps policy 
at a value of £6,000. The unit was no longer manufactured and after discussion, Admiral 
agreed to instruct their repair agents (S) to collect the audio unit and inspect it for evidence 
of power surge damage. Having inspected the unit, S reported that they couldnt find any 
evidence of damage from a power surge. Based on this, Admiral declined Mr Ps claim.
Unhappy at having his claim declined, as well as with delays in considering his claim and a 
lack of communication, Mr P complained to Admiral. Admiral upheld his complaint in part 
and offered £100 compensation for the delays and lack of communication. But they 
maintained their original decision to decline his claim for damage to the audio unit.
Mr P complained to this service. The main part of his complaint was the decline of his claim. 
He didnt think his audio unit showed evidence of having been properly inspected by S, so 
there wasnt a basis for them to conclude there wasnt any evidence of power surge 
damage. Mr P felt his claim had been declined due to the age of the unit. While he was 
unhappy at delays in his claim being considered and lack of communication, he was content 
with the £100 offered by Admiral in response to that part of his complaint.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding that Admirals decision to decline the claim 
wasnt reasonable. He thought Ss report that there wasnt evidence of power surge damage 
wasnt sufficiently detailed to support the conclusion. He didnt think Admiral could rely on 
the report to decline Mr Ps claim and under the terms of Mr Ps policy damage from a power 
surge would be covered as accidental damage. He also thought there was evidence of a 
power cut before Mr P noticed the problem and indications of other people in Mr Ps area 
experiencing issues with electrical equipment after the power cut. To put things right, the 
investigator thought Admiral should consider Mr Ps claim as they couldnt rely on Ss report 
to decline the claim. He thought Admirals offer of £100 compensation for delays and lack of 
communication was fair. 
Admiral disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. They said S had inspected the audio unit and carried out electrical tests as 
well as visual inspection. They maintained that the inspection was sufficient for them to 
decline the claim. But if Mr P wanted to dispute their decision, they would consider a report 
from an independent engineer should Mr P wish to obtain one.
In my findings I concluded that it was likely that there was a power cut and associated power 
surge and that damage from such an event would be considered accidental damage under 
the terms of the policy. I then considered whether a power surge caused damage specifically 
to Mr Ps audio unit. I noted that where policyholders make a claim for damage the onus is 
on them to show its more likely than not that an insured event caused the damage theyre 
claiming for. 
I went on to consider the views of Mr P and of Admiral (based on Ss reports and opinions). 
While it was clear Mr P didnt accept what S said or their conclusions and he said how he 
thought the damage might have occurred from a power surge, he hadnt provided any 
independent, professional evidence to support his position.
As such, I concluded that I didnt think Mr P had shown that the damage to his audio unit 
was caused by a power surge. Based on this I wasnt persuaded that Mr Ps complaint 
should be upheld. However, I also noted that if Mr P were to obtain independent, 
professional evidence to support his view then this would be considered together with the 
existing evidence with a view to reaching a final decision on his complaint. I also noted 
Admiral they would consider any report from an independent engineer, indicating they would 
re-assess Mr Ps claim in that situation. I thought that would be a fair and reasonable 
approach.
As I disagreed with the investigators view, I issued a provisional decision to give both 
parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether Admiral has acted fairly towards Mr P.
The main element of Mr Ps complaint is that Admiral unfairly declined his claim for damage 
to his audio unit, which he maintains was the result of a power surge. Mr Ps view is that the 
inspection carried out by S wasnt sufficiently thorough to support their conclusion that the 
damage to the audit unit wasnt caused by a power surge.
In considering Mr Ps complaint, Ive first considered the question of whether there was a 
power cut and associated power surge. Ive also considered (if there was a power surge) 
whether damage that it may have caused would be covered under the terms of Mr Ps policy.
On the first issue, based on the evidence Ive seen from Mr P, Ive concluded it was likely 
there was a power cut and associated power surge. On the second issue, Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy. It includes cover for accidental damage for audio 
visual equipment, defining accidental damage as:
Sudden, unexpected and visible loss, which has not been caused wilfully or 
deliberately
Its clear Mr Ps audio unit falls into the category of audio visual equipment (and its included 
as a specified item under his policy). I also think the nature of the damage he says occurred 
(a power surge) would fall within the definition of accidental damage. 
But the key issue here is not so much whether there was a power surge or whether any 
resulting damage would be covered under the policy  its whether a power surge caused 
damage specifically to Mr Ps audio unit. Mr Ps view is that it did and that Admiral acted 
unfairly in declining his claim. Mr P also says that there was damage to two other items of 
his, as well as pointing to social media coverage of issues from other people in his area after 
the power cut. For their part, Admiral (based on the inspection and findings from S) maintain 
that the evidence doesnt support the conclusion that the damage was caused by a power surge. As part of their response to our investigators view, Admiral also referred to views 
from S that a component in the audit unit failed (given the age of the unit). 
In cases where policyholders make a claim for damage the onus is on them to show its 
more likely than not that an insured event caused the damage theyre claiming for. If they 
cant, then their claim wont succeed.
 
In this case, the key issue is whether theres sufficient evidence to show the damage to Mr 
Ps audio unit was caused by a power surge (as he maintains) or that the evidence doesnt 
support that view (as Admiral maintain). Central to the latter is the inspection carried out by 
S, including the nature of the examination of the audio unit and the tests carried out and their 
conclusion that the damage wasnt caused by a power surge (but that a component failed). 
Mr P contends that S didnt carry out a sufficiently thorough inspection to support their 
conclusion and they didnt consider all the ways in which a power surge could have led to 
damage. Hes also told us about his doubts about the capability of S to carry out a proper 
inspection, given the specialist nature of his audio unit.
Our role is to form a conclusion, on the balance of probabilities, from the evidence available. 
Ive considered both views carefully. While Mr P doesnt accept what S have said or their 
conclusions and hes told us how he thinks the damage might have occurred from a power 
surge, he hasnt provided any independent, professional evidence to support his position.
As such, I dont think Mr P has shown that the damage to his audio unit was caused by a 
power surge. Given this, then Im not currently persuaded that Mr Ps complaint should be 
upheld. However, if Mr P were to obtain independent, professional evidence to support his 
view then this would be considered together with the existing evidence with a view to 
reaching a final decision on his complaint. Ive also noted that Admiral have said that they 
would consider any report from an independent engineer, indicating they would re-assess Mr 
Ps claim in that situation. I think that would be a fair and reasonable approach.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision not to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Admiral didnt respond by the date requested.
Mr P responded with several points. Id want to reassure Mr P that Ive considered carefully 
all the points hes raised in coming to a final decision, including watching the video hes 
produced showing the audio unit and explaining some of the points of his case. In doing this, 
Ive concentrated on what I think are Mr Ps main points. Firstly, S didnt carry out a thorough 
inspection of his audit unit. In particular, they didnt dismantle the processor and so wouldnt 
be able to assess the damage that he maintains occurred due to the power surge. 
Secondly, there was clear evidence of a power surge on the date he lodged his claim, but 
that the nature of sophisticated electronic equipment is such that damage isnt always 
visible. He reiterated his view that the audio unit still powers on  but with limited 
functionality as the surge caused damage resulting in variable and incorrect volume through 
the unit speakers. 
Thirdly, the manufacturer approved repair centre that could inspect the audio unit was a 
significant distance from Mr P told him that due to Covid restrictions (and inability to repair 
the unit) they would be reluctant to inspect the unit (and it would cost over £1,000 just to 
inspect it). So, while he strongly believed his audio unit was damaged by a power surge, he 
couldnt provide evidence to support his view because the cost would be prohibitive.Fourthly, it was unfair of Admiral to decline his claim on the basis that they considered the 
damage to the audio unit was due to its age, when they didnt stipulate any maximum age of 
an item that would be insured nor provide evidence to support their view. 
Finally, he maintained that the unit was working before the power cut - but wasnt afterwards. 
And hed also had to repair a server damaged by the power surge, as well as having a 
power amplifier damaged at the same time (which he didnt include in his claim).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Admiral have acted fairly towards Mr P.
Ive considered each of Mr Ps substantive points in turn. On the first point, S maintain that 
they did inspect the audio unit, but were careful in how they did this and the tests they say 
they carried out. S gave some indication of the tests they carried out, and its the only 
independent evidence available in the absence of any other independent report.  But Mr P 
clearly doubts what theyve said and doesnt think S carried out a proper inspection. Given 
this, then I think it has been open to him to engage his own independent expert to inspect 
the unit and to produce a report setting out their professional view on the nature of the 
damage and its cause  specifically, whether or not it was due to a power surge.
On the second point, I accept that damage can be of a nature that isnt immediately or 
clearly obvious and visible. Thats consistent with his point that the unit still powers on (I can 
see that from his video). But that being the case indicates to me the benefit of an 
independent, expert report along the lines Ive set out.
Following on from this, on the third point, I can understand Mr Ps reluctance to seek to have 
his unit inspected by the manufacturer approved repair centre given its distance and the 
potential cost. But with the lifting of all Covid restrictions, that potential problem would seem 
to drop away. Admiral have indicated they would consider such a report and re-assess the 
claim accordingly. Were such a report to provide a clear conclusion that the damage was 
due to a power surge, then Id expect Admiral to reconsider the claim on that basis (and to 
also consider paying the cost of obtaining a report).
On the fourth point, Mr P rejects Ss view that a component in the unit had failed (due to its 
age). Mr P also, in the video, points to the general condition of the unit being good and that 
hes looked after it carefully. Ive no reason to doubt that. And theres nothing in the policy 
that excludes coverage based purely on age, and the unit was specifically listed as a high 
value item. But this  doesnt affect the point I made in the provisional decision that in cases 
where policyholders make a claim for damage the onus is on them to show its more likely 
than not that an insured event caused the damage theyre claiming for. 
 
On the final point, Mr P had already made this known when I considered his complaint and I 
took account of it when coming to my provisional decision. So, I havent changed my mind 
on this issue.
Taking all these points into consideration, I still think that the absence of a clear, definitive 
cause of the damage (supported by an independent, expert report) means Im not able to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman