DRN-2653347
The complaint
Mr M says Provident Personal Credit Limited (Provident) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about three home credit loans Provident provided to Mr M between 
March 2015 and September 2015, as detailed below.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Duration AmountHighest 
Weekly 
Repayment
1 28/03/2015 21/07/2015 23 weeks £299 £13
2 16/07/2015 Outstanding 32 weeks £800 £25
3 23/09/2015 Outstanding 32 weeks £320 £10
Our adjudicator thought Provident hadnt done anything wrong when providing Mr M with his 
loans. He explained that Provident gathered adequate information and there wasnt anything 
within that information that was cause for concern. 
Mr M disagreed and said the loans were not affordable for him and adequate checks were 
not carried out. Mr M says a proper assessment by Provident wouldve shown he couldnt 
afford them. Mr M also says he made the agent aware of his communication needs and no 
adjustments were made to ensure he understood the loans.  
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me  an ombudsman  to 
issue a decision on. 
I sent Mr M and Provident my provisional decision on 17 February 2021 explaining why I 
think I should uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. Here is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Irresponsible lending
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Provident should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context
and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Having done this, Im upholding the
complaint in part. Ill explain why.
In his complaint Mr M says that Provident didnt lend to him responsibly because it didnt
carry out adequate checks and he has been struggling to repay the loans. He says had
Provident properly reviewed his credit file it wouldve seen he couldnt afford the loans.
Overall, Mr M says the lending had a negative impact on his financial situation.
Provident says that it carried out adequate checks  by gathering details of Mr Ms income
and expenditure. And based on this information Provident says it didnt see anything to
alert it to any sustainability or affordability issues for the loans it gave Mr M.
Its important to note that when Mr M took out his first loan with Provident, there was no
existing relationship with it. The first loan was to be repaid over 23 weeks with the highest
weekly payment being £13. Mr M had told Provident that his monthly income was around
£670 and after outgoings he was left with a disposable income of £465. There isnt anything
obvious about these figures that suggests Provident had reason to question the information
it had about Mr M or there was a need to verify it. Looking at the monthly repayments in
light of Mr Ms declared disposable income its difficult for me to conclude that Provident
was wrong to decide that the repayments would be affordable sustainably for Mr M.
When Mr M applied for loan 2 his income had reduced, and he was borrowing significantly
more than he did for loan 1. Provident carried out an income and expenditure assessment
again and it seems his disposable income of around £200 was sufficient in light of the
repayments due. So, I dont think Provident made an error when it granted loan 2.
For loan 3 Mr M was borrowing a significant amount again and loan 2 was still outstanding.
So I wouldve expected Provident Loans to build up a clearer picture of Mr Ms finances.
Provident says it carried out another income and expenditure assessment. Mr Ms income
had dropped but given he had a disposable income of just over £100 the loan was
approved. Having carefully thought about loan 3 and the information available I think it was
reasonable for Provident to have provided this borrowing.Mr M has said that he had a low income when he took out the loans. I can see Mr Ms
declared income also consisted of state benefits. This in itself isnt a reason for lending not
to be provided. And this is why details of expenditure and disposable income are gathered
to ensure loans are affordable. For each loan Provident says that it conducted a Credit
Bureau check and the results of these didnt reveal anything of concern. Mr M says he
struggled to repay loans 2 and 3 and I can see they have been sold on to a third party. By
loan 3 I think its clear that a downward trend was developing as Mr M wasnt able to meet
repayments. However, no further loans were provided by Provident after this point.
So, overall I think the checks Provident did before lending on the loans went far enough and
I wouldnt have expected Provident at this stage to undertake any more in-depth checks.
This means I dont think Provident was wrong to give Mr M these loans. I appreciate that this
will come as a disappointment to Mr M who has put a lot of time and effort into his complaint.
I know my findings are likely to disappoint him. But I hope my explanation will help him
understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Mr Ms communication needs
Mr M has explained he had specific communication needs which Provident did not consider
when the loans were arranged. Our service has repeatedly asked for information from
Provident about its sales process and what steps it wouldve taken to ensure Mr M properly
understood the loans in light of his communication needs. As we have not received a
response to this request Ive relied on Mr Ms comments about the sale of the loans.
Mr M says that the loans were all arranged in his home and that he made the agent aware of
his communication needs. In particular Mr M says that he explained his vulnerability as he is
deaf and that he uses British Sign Language and is unable to understand or read without the
help of his advocate. Mr M says no steps were taken to check his understanding of the loans
and they were given to him instantly.
Based on what Mr M has told us it doesnt seem Provident made any adjustments to its
sales process to factor in Mr Ms individual needs. As these loans were arranged face to
face, I think it wouldve been apparent to the agent that Mr M had specific needs that meant
the sales wouldve needed to be adapted to ensure his understanding of the commitments
he was taking on. This wouldve been an important issue when each of the loans were
arranged and I havent seen any evidence to show any steps were taken to assist Mr M or
that Mr M was treated fairly. In light of this I think Provident should pay Mr M £200 for the
trouble and upset it has caused by failing to make reasonable adjustments for Mr M.
I said Id consider anything else Mr M and Provident wanted to give me  so long as I 
received it by 3 March 2021. As both parties have responded to my provision decision, I 
have considered the comments and I will now issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints of this nature on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms
Provident responded to my provisional decision stating it accepted by findings. 
Mr M responded explaining he accepted my findings about loans one and two. He also 
accepted my award for trouble and upset. However, Mr M did not agree with my findings about loan three. Mr M explained that loan three was given to him to pay off his arrears on 
loan two. Mr M says his communication needs were not considered and he has struggled to 
repay this loan. Mr M says proper checks were not carried out and he thinks this loan was 
given to him irresponsibly. 
Ive considered Mr Ms comments carefully and I still dont think loan three was given to him 
irresponsibly by Provident. I say this because having looked at the evidence we have from 
the time loan three was arranged in September 2015 it seems Mr M was repaying loan two 
without any apparent issues. As this loan was flexible Mr M had the option of adapting his 
repayments to suit his circumstances and looking at the account information there were no 
arrears on loan two, and it seems Mr M had actually made overpayments to this loan before 
he took out loan three. 
It was in December 2015 when Mr M started having issues repaying loans two and three. 
But from the evidence Ive seen this wouldnt have been apparent to Provident at the time 
when it approved loan three. At the time Provident provided the lending its checks indicated 
Mr M was in a position to be able to take on further borrowing. 
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr M who has put a lot of time and 
effort into his complaint. I know my findings are likely to disappoint him. But I hope my 
explanation will help him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Putting things right  what Provident Personal Credit Limited needs to do
Provident did not provide the three loans to Mr M irresponsibly. However, from the evidence 
I have seen I dont think Provident did enough to ensure Mr Ms specific communication 
needs were met. As outlined above, I think Provident should pay Mr M £200 for the trouble 
and upset it has caused by failing to make reasonable adjustments for Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons given above. Im upholding Mr Ms complaint, in part. Provident Personal 
Credit Limited should put things right for Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman