DRN-1491901
The complaint
Mr T complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds offer of compensation for how it dealt with 
his mobile phone insurance claim. My references to Aviva include its agents.
What happened
Mr T has mobile phone insurance through his bank account, the insurer is Aviva. He claimed 
on his policy for his broken phone. He understood Aviva would repair and return the 
handset. Instead Aviva sent him a replacement handset. 
Mr T hadnt back up the information held on the broken phone and said Aviva hadnt told him 
to. As the handset was replaced he lost all information on the broken phone.
Aviva accepted it hadnt told Mr T to back up the information on his phone. It couldnt retrieve 
his faulty phone for him to now do so. Aviva offered  £50 compensation for Mr Ts distress 
and inconvenience it caused.
Mr T complained to us. He said £50 wasnt enough as hed lost very precious family photos 
and all the business contacts on his phone which had cost him thousands of pounds in lost 
business.
During our investigation Aviva increased its offer to £200. Our investigator said that was a 
reasonable amount.
Mr T would like more compensation and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I partly uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy is clear theres no cover for :
Information stored on the phone such as photos, data, apps and music and/or the 
recompilation, reinstallation or retrieval of data, and 
Any loss related to you being unable to use your phone.
So Mr T cant claim for any lost photos, other data or any lost business revenue under the 
policy.
Aviva accepts it didnt tell Mr T to back up the information on his phone and offered him 
compensation on that basis. It would have been very helpful if Aviva had told Mr T. But 
I dont think Aviva was wholly responsible for the loss of photos and other data.
Mr T has described some of the very special events the photos showed and the importance 
of the business data to him. So I think it would have been reasonable for him to have 
ensured the information on his phone was backed up before he sent it to Aviva. Instead of 
having a faulty phone he could have lost the phone or had it stolen which would also have 
meant the information would be lost as he hadnt backed up.
Putting things right
I understand Mr T is upset and disappointed to lose the information he had on his phone. But 
I think Avivas new offer of £200 compensation is a fair and reasonable amount for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr T its new offer of 
£200 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman