DRN-2412623
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) unfairly declined his account 
switch application which meant he didnt qualify for a £150 incentive. Mr M also complains 
that RBS wont delete his information. 
What happened
On 18 November 2019 Mr M applied online for a current account that came with a £150 
switching incentive. RBS asked for copy of Mr Ms passport for verification. Due to a systems 
problem with RBS the identification wasnt accepted. RBS says it emailed Mr M and also 
wrote to him to request another copy of his identification. Mr M has confirmed he didnt 
receive RBS letter. 
Mr M complained and RBS responded on 24 January 2020. RBS advised that systems error 
meant any application where the requested identification was rejected was automatically 
declined. RBS agreed it had let Mr M down and apologised. RBS agreed to remove the 
credit search marker it had registered on Mr Ms credit file and apologised for the frustration 
and inconvenience caused by its actions. RBS said it had to retain information about 
applications on its systems and didnt agree to delete it. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld 
the complaint and asked RBS to pay Mr M £100 in recognition of the frustration and 
inconvenience caused by its actions. RBS didnt agree and said its actions hadnt caused 
inconvenience or worry to Mr M. As RBS didnt accept, Mr Ms case has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has queried RBS data retention policy and why it plans to retain his information for the 
next 10 years. I understand Mr Ms concerns and that he wants RBS to delete his 
information. But, as our investigator has said, our service cant tell a business how to 
operate or how long it should retain information about its customers. The Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) looks at how businesses handle information about their 
customers. I can see the investigator has provided Mr M with details of how to find out more 
about the work the ICO does. 
I agree that Mr M has been inconvenienced by RBS actions and that it should pay him £100 
to reflect that. RBS systems notes show that Mr Ms application was approved. RBS final 
response explains that the decision to decline was caused by a systems error after his 
identification was rejected. Im satisfied that Mr M wasted time completing an application that 
was declined due to a systems error. 
In addition, Mr M had to contact RBS to request its credit search marker be removed from 
his credit file. Further, had the application completed, Mr M wouldve been able to take 
advantage of his new RBS current account. 
Based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied £100 fairly reflects the inconvenience 
caused by the way RBS handled Mr Ms application and is fair in all the circumstances. As a 
result, Im upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay 
Mr M £100.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman