DRN-1466675
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Cumberland Building Society mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 What happened
Mr and Mrs A initially complained that theyd been mis-sold PPI with a mortgage in 1989 but 
Cumberland Building Society wasnt able to find anything suggesting that theyd taken out 
PPI with that mortgage. It doesnt look like Mr and Mrs A have been able to send me any 
more information about this. 
So in my decision, Im just looking at their complaint about PPI that Cumberland Building 
Society sold to them with their mortgage in 1991.
In 1991, Mr and Mrs A took out PPI when they arranged a joint mortgage to buy their new 
home. 
The policy covered Mr A and provided protection in the event of accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Mr A told us that he didnt understand that the PPI was optional and he thought taking it out 
would help them secure the mortgage. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with this 
view. Mr A mainly said that he doesnt think he was employed at the time as he wasnt ever 
paid for holiday or sickness or offered a pension  and there was some confusion about the 
criteria for self employment as the company he did work for provided him with a company 
car and paid expenses. He later on purchased his own car and earned commission only plus 
expenses. Mr A is concerned that the policy wasnt suitable for someone in his employment 
situation.
The case comes to me to make a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. 
It isnt reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs A to remember exactly what was discussed when 
they arranged their mortgage and the PPI so long ago. This means that what they say isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint just based on what Mr and Mrs A say about the way they were sold PPI. I have to look at all the available 
information and decide what I think is most likely.
Looking at the mortgage paperwork they completed, I think Mr and Mrs A wouldve seen that 
it was up to them to say if they wanted to take out PPI. 
I say this because there were a range of insurance options offered  the PPI option is ticked 
on their mortgage application and theyve indicated the amount of cover that they wanted - 
£750. So it looks as if Mr and Mrs A talked about PPI and discussed how much cover they 
wanted  even if theyve forgotten this now. 
And other insurance options offered on the mortgage application were left blank  so this 
suggests to me that Mr and Mrs A wouldve known it was up to them to say if they wanted to 
take out PPI.
They also completed a separate application form for the PPI and filled in an instruction form 
to their bank to pay for it. 
Taking all this into account, I find the mortgage paperwork did make it clear that 
Mr and Mrs A had to choose if they wanted to take out the policy with their mortgage  and it 
was added to their account when they decided to buy the cover for Mr A. 
Cumberland Building Society says it recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs A and it looks as if 
PPI was suitable for them based on what Mr and Mrs A told us about their circumstances at 
the time. 
It looks like Mr A was substantially the main earner so I can see why it made sense to take 
out the policy to protect his income. 
Ive taken into account that Mr A is concerned that we may not have properly understood his 
employment situation. And I can see why this is confusing  it looks like his work 
arrangements have been a mix of paid employment for some of the time and at other times, 
hes been self-employed.
What matters is what Mr As circumstances were when he signed up for the PPI. 
I've seen a letter from his employer sent to Cumberland Building Society in support of his 
mortgage application which confirms that at that time, hed been in permanent paid 
employment for 10 years with a basic salary. And this is confirmed by information from the 
tax office that shows for the tax years 1990-1991 and 1991-1992 his National Insurance 
contributions reflected the fact he was employed  and not self-employed. Although I can 
see that for other years, Mr A was paying National Insurance contributions as a self-
employed person. So I can completely understand why it hasnt been straightforward 
working out exactly what his circumstances were when he took out the PPI. But it seems 
clear to me that he was employed at the time.
I dont know what Mr As sick pay entitlement would've been  or even if he had any. At one 
point Mr A mentioned he wouldve got up to 6 months full pay if he was off work sick  hes 
also mentioned that he never had any sick pay. And after such a long time, I wouldnt expect 
him to remember a detail like this. 
But it makes no overall difference. Thats because the policy offered better protection 
anyway. It wouldve paid out in full for up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident and 
sickness. So the PPI provided better protection than Mr A ever told us he couldve relied on 
getting through his employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay providing Mr and Mrs A with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if they mightve had some 
extra costs as a result of Mr A being sick or disabled. 
As well as this, PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr A 
became unexpectedly unemployed. 
Mr and Mrs A couldve made repeated claims on the policy, giving them long term protection 
for their mortgage.
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs A told us they had a few 
months worth of savings when they took out this mortgage. But I dont know if they wouldve 
always had savings to rely on if theyd needed to make a claim. Having PPI meant 
Mr and Mrs A could keep their savings to spend on other things or to provide them with 
financial security  and the policy could've paid out for a lot longer than their savings 
wouldve lasted if theyd had to rely on these to pay their monthly outgoings if Mr A wasnt 
able to work. 
The mortgage was taken out when Mr and Mrs A were both in work. So I think it would've 
been difficult for them to keep making the mortgage repayments if only Mrs A was able to 
work.
For these reasons, I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs A taking into account what 
theyve told us about their situation at the time.  
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look like any of the policy 
limitations or exclusions wouldve affected Mr A. So I dont think having more information 
about these policy terms wouldve stopped him taking out the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs A set up separate arrangements to pay for the PPI  this suggests to me that 
even if theyve forgotten now, they wanted to have PPI at the time and they were happy to 
pay for it. From what Ive seen, they havent suggested that they couldnt afford the monthly 
premiums. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs A still wouldve decided to buy the policy for Mr A even if theyd been 
better informed as it offered them useful protection.
So I dont find theyve lost out in money terms as a result of anything that Cumberland 
Building Society did wrong. This means it doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman