DRN-3448776
The complaint
Miss N complains that Target Servicing Limited has treated her unfairly by asking her to 
repay overdue management fees charged to her help to buy loan. Miss N says this is unfair 
as it was Targets error that led to the fees not being paid sooner.
Miss N would like Target to refund the overdue management fees shes paid to it. 
What happened
Miss N took out a help to buy shared equity loan in December 2017 that has been 
administered by Target. 
Target says that, due to an administration error, Miss Ns signed direct debit instruction 
wasnt set up when she took out the loan. This meant that the management fee of £1 per 
month hasnt been paid since the start of the loan. Miss N only found out about this over 
three years later when Target reviewed any accounts that didnt have an active direct debit. 
On 14 May 2021 Target wrote to Miss N. Target asked her to set up a new direct debit 
instruction for the management fee going forward and to arrange to repay the arrears of 
around £39 that had built up since the start of the loan. 
In June 2021 Miss N complained to Target. Miss N said she had no recollection that there 
was a monthly management fee of £1 per month or that this hadnt been paid. And Miss N 
couldnt understand why the direct debit hadnt been properly set up when she purchased 
her property. 
Target issued a final response letter to her concerns, upholding part of the complaint. Target 
agreed that the payments hadnt been taken due to its administrative error and that it was 
sorry that Miss N hadnt been told about this for so long. However, Target still said that Miss 
N needed to make up the missed payments now. It said the unpaid management fees were 
due to be paid by Miss N under the terms and conditions of the contract she had signed 
when she took out the equity loan. Target said it was unable to waive any of the 
management fee payments despite its error.
Miss N was unhappy with Targets response and referred her complaint to us. Miss N said 
she would set up a direct debit for future payments but she didnt think it was fair she was 
now expected to pay historic amounts because of Targets error. 
On 22 June 2021, Target says Miss N made a payment of outstanding management fees of 
£42. Miss N has told us she did this because she was worried that she might end up with 
arrears being reported on her credit file if she didnt make the payment.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He thought Miss Ns complaint should be 
upheld. He thought Target was contractually entitled to have been paid the £1 monthly 
management fee, but he considered it reasonable that Target refund the management fees 
outstanding to the point its error was identified. He said Targets handling of the issue had 
caused upset to Miss N. He thought it fair that Target pay Miss N £75 for the trouble and 
upset its mistake had caused to her.  
Target didnt agree with our investigators findings. It asked that an ombudsman look at the 
complaint again and reach a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that this complaint should be upheld. Im also in broad agreement 
with our investigator about what should be done now to put things right. 
Ive looked at the terms of the agreement signed by Miss N. Im satisfied it was made 
reasonably clear that there was a £1 monthly management fee to be paid. However, Target 
has admitted that it made a mistake administering Miss Ns help to buy equity loan. Target 
has agreed that it was at fault for not requesting payment of the management fee for years 
and that its sorry it didnt identify its error sooner. 
I can understand why Miss N wasnt sure what to make of the letter she received from 
Target saying she was behind with the payment of fees. I believe Miss N when she says she 
had no recollection of the fee. I can also see why Miss N thought it might be a scam and an 
attempt by a third party to get her payment details. As Miss N has said, this situation only 
came about because Target failed to ask for payments. I can see why Miss N hadnt noticed 
this small payment of £1 per month hadnt been taken after she purchased her property. 
In the particular circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it is fair for Target to ask Miss 
N to repay the management fees from the start of the loan to the date the problem was 
brought to her attention. Im persuaded that if Miss N had known that she was underpaying 
this amount sooner, she would have made the payments of £1 each month over the years. 
Miss N had signed a direct debit instruction and has shown that she is willing to pay the 
payment. It was only due to Targets administrative error that she didnt have this 
opportunity. 
I consider that but for Targets error, Miss N would have made this payment each month for 
years. And it is only because of Targets mistake that Miss N has found herself asked to 
make a payment of around £42 in 2021. While Im satisfied this amount was due under the 
contract, I dont think it is fair and reasonable that Target ask Miss N to pay those historic 
fees now. 
While Target did accept its mistake, it didnt recognise the impact that its mistake made on 
Miss N. Targets actions caused worry, inconvenience and upset to Miss N and I agree with 
our investigator that a payment of £75 for the trouble and upset caused to Miss N is 
appropriate in the circumstances.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think that its fair and reasonable that Target should not collect the 
monthly management fee from the start of the equity loan to when the issue was identified 
and explained to Mrs N. Target has said that Miss N paid an amount of £42 in June 2021. I 
think this should be refunded to Miss N. I think it is also appropriate that when Target 
reimburse Miss N, that it should apply interest at 8% simple from the date Miss N repaid the 
fees to the date that Target processes the refund to her.In addition, I consider it fair that Target should pay Miss N £75 for the trouble and upset 
caused to her by its mistake.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint against Target Servicing Limited is upheld. I direct 
Target Servicing Limited to do the following to settle the matter:
- Reimburse Miss N for the monthly management fees paid to Target in June 2021 
(plus annual interest to be applied at 8% simple from the date in June 2021 to the 
date that Target refunds the amount to Miss N);
- Pay Miss N £75 for the trouble and upset caused to her by its mistake. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman