DRN-2021109
The complaint
Mr B complains that when he took out a mortgage through London and Country Mortgages 
Ltd (L&C) it quoted him a price for the legal work associated with the purchase, which was to 
be provided by solicitors (who Ill refer to as X). But X charged approximately 30% more for 
the legal work than L&C had quoted.
What happened
When Mr B wanted to make a property purchase, the mortgage was arranged by L&C. 
During the arrangement process, L&C introduced Mr B to X, and quoted a fee of £1,517 for 
the cost of the associated legal work, should Mr B want this to be provided by X. Mr B 
accepted this quote, and the property purchase was completed.
However, due to the work required, the final legal bill from X was some 30% higher than 
originally quoted by L&C. Although Mr B had no complaint about the legal service provided, 
he did complain to L&C as he thought they should have anticipated the true cost at the time 
of the quote, and had unfairly persuaded him to employ X by deliberately giving an 
unrealistically low quote.
In its final response letter, L&C said the price quoted was accurate, and related to a fixed fee 
for the standard basic legal work required to purchase a new property. It said it highlighted 
this to Mr B and gave him examples of the circumstances which would lead to additional 
legal costs. It also said the additional charges could not have been anticipated at the outset 
as they were charged by a third party as part of the purchase.
However, L&C did acknowledge that during its conversation with Mr B during which the 
quote and potential further fees were discussed, it could have been made clearer. As a 
result, it offered Mr B £50 compensation.
Mr B didnt accept this and brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought that the legal fees quotation document that L&C provided Mr B 
clearly stated the quote was only indicative and therefore not guaranteed. And it highlighted 
that any non-standard legal work would attract an additional cost. So she thought L&C had 
done enough in the document to make Mr B aware additional costs may be incurred. 
However, she did think that the £50 offered by L&C was fair and reasonable, as verbally 
L&C could have made this clearer.
Mr B didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to decide in this complaint, is whether Im satisfied L&C were unfair in how they 
explained and set out to Mr B the costs of X. And Im not. I think L&C did enough to make it 
clear that there may be additional legal fees, above and beyond those included in the fixed 
fee, so the amount quoted was not unrealistically low. Ill explain why.
Mr B was making a house purchase and used L&C to obtain a mortgage for him. As part of 
the process L&C offered and introduction to the service of a solicitors firm, X, to complete 
the conveyancing. A fixed fee was quoted, and this was provided to Mr B in the form of a 
written quotation document. 
I have seen this document, and I think it makes it clear that the fixed-fee (in this case 
£1,517) was only indicative, and covered the basic standard legal services associated with a 
house purchase. It then lists the type of additional work which would attract a further cost, 
and that the solicitors would give written notice should these be necessary. And this is what 
happened. There were additional fees charged by a management agent of the property and I 
dont think these could have been reasonably known to L&C or X prior to the legal work 
starting.
L&C have acknowledged it could have been clearer when it discussed the potential 
additional costs and have offered Mr B £50 compensation. I am satisfied that this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, especially as the quotation document is so clear. So, I 
dont think it should do anything else.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. I am satisfied the £50 already offered by London and Country 
Mortgages Ltd, trading as L&C Mortgages, is fair, so Mr B should contact it if he wishes to 
accept it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman