DRN-3604974
The complaint
Mrs G says Creation Financial Services Limited, has treated her unfairly in relation to two 
transactions on her credit card which paid for flights for her, family and friend.
What happened
In March 2020 Mrs G used her Creation credit card to make payments for these flights. They 
were due to fly in July 2020. Before the flights were due to fly the government of the country 
she was flying to banned UK residents from being allowed into the country. The airline says 
the flights flew but Mrs G and her party didnt fly as they knew they wouldnt be allowed into 
the country. So she complained to the airline. It said the flights flew and the tickets were non-
refundable, cancellable or changeable and in essence Mrs G and her party were no shows. 
Mrs G paid in total nearly £2000. Mrs G says she cannot afford to lose this money. So she 
complained and the airline refused to refund.
So she took her dispute to Creation to see if it could help. Creation says it didnt provide 
good customer service to Mrs G. So it paid her £100 in recognition of that. Creation says it 
considered the matter and having done so it didnt think it needed to refund her the cost of 
the flights. So Mrs G, still unsatisfied, brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt Creation didnt have to do anymore. And Mrs G remains unhappy and 
so this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G used her Creation credit card to pay the airline for the flights. This means that if 
certain criteria are met Creation can have certain responsibilities to Mrs G which arise from 
the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In 
summary in certain circumstances Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mrs G to hold 
Creation liable for breaches of contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the 
agreement made. In essence Creation can be held responsible for a like claim against the 
supplier.
Also Mrs Gs Creation credit card is part of a card network which is operated by another 
company. And this network has rules which includes giving Creation an avenue for card 
transactions to be disputed with Merchants, namely through the Chargeback process. This 
isnt a right for consumers and the ultimate decision maker on such chargebacks is the 
network itself and not Creation. So it is possible that Creation could take it as far as possible 
and Mrs G still not be successful.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Creation and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mrs G fairly. This decision isnt about airline, 
which isnt within this Services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. I hope 
this distinction is clear.
could Creation challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mrs G 
does here, Creation can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mrs G doesnt 
dispute that she used her Creation credit card here. Nor does she dispute the amount, date, 
or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think Creation couldve challenged 
the payment on the basis Mrs G didnt properly authorise the transaction, given what Ive just 
set out.
Creation is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Creation raised a chargeback and the airline defended it by saying the flights were non-
refundable. And the flights were provided but Mrs G and party didnt show. So the airline felt 
the chargeback shouldnt go further.
Creation considered this and didnt take the chargeback any further because it didnt think 
the chargeback had a reasonable prospect of success based on what the airline had said.
I appreciate the comments Mrs G has made regarding the government of the country to be 
flown to wasnt allowing entry for UK residents. And that she feels her losing out because of 
this would be unfair. But the Chargeback process is purely a process between consumers 
and merchants and doesnt consider factors outside such as government decisions. It just 
considers the positions of the consumer and the merchant. And here the Merchant didnt do 
anything wrong as the airline say the flights flew and Mrs G and party didnt show. And the 
merchant isnt responsible for the decision of that government.
Ultimately its my decision that on balance had the chargeback been taken further it would 
have been unsuccessful. So I dont think Mrs G has lost out because of what Creation did.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mrs Gs claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. Im not persuaded I need to make a finding at this point because for 
other reasons I have decided that Creation doesnt need to do anymore. 
For Creation to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that 
the supplier either breached the contract or materially misrepresented something to Mrs G 
which was untrue and that her fair reliance on that untruth led to loss.
Weve already established that the flights was available for Mrs G to use. Hence it is clear 
there is no breach of contract on the part of the airline in regard to providing the flights.  And 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence of the airline telling Mrs G something that was untrue 
which led to loss. So without any misrepresentation or breach of contract here Creation 
cannot be held to a like claim and thus doesnt have to refund Mrs G for her loss. It would be unfair on Creation to have to pay out in these circumstances as it doesnt have 
responsibility for the other countrys decision regarding arrivals from the UK. I appreciate the 
reasons why Mrs G didnt travel, and I appreciate my decision means shes lost a lot of 
money. However for me to decide Creation should pay Id have to decide it is responsible for 
this loss and Im not persuaded it is because there is no breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. And I dont think its position on Chargeback is wrong either, as I think it 
would have been unsuccessful.
It should also be remembered that the only reason Creation is potentially liable is due to this 
legislation Ive described. If the legislation wasnt in place then Creation wouldnt have such 
potential liability for the flights (it would have obligations around Chargeback but that isnt 
nearly as extensive in terms of protection to the consumer). 
I note Mrs G has made a large number of arguments in relation to this case. Ive considered 
them all. Ill now address the key arguments shes made for clarity.
Mrs G points to similar situations and getting her money back. I think it worth pointing out 
that different airlines provide very different contractual arrangements and I dont doubt that 
other airlines may have refunded in similar situations. But that doesnt change the fact that 
these tickets were non-refundable and as Mrs G didnt attend then there is no breach or 
misrepresentation and hence Creation havent treated her unfairly. I should also add that 
package holidays get the benefit of added protections that flight only contracts dont get. So 
this might explain why some other claims Mrs G has had have been successful.
Mrs G says Creation should have fought harder. But Creation only have to fulfil their 
obligations fairly. It isnt a case of it representing Mrs Gs interests or acting on her behalf. 
And in this case Im not persuaded its done anything wrong here.
Mrs G says she wasnt allowed on the flight. I can understand why that would be if the airline 
knew she wouldnt be allowed in the country because then shed have to be flown back 
probably at her own additional cost. But that would be because of the government 
restrictions which neither the airline or Creation are responsible for.
I fully accept Mrs G hasnt done anything wrong here. But neither has Creation. And 
ultimately the agreement Mrs G entered into enabled the airline to keep the money if Mrs G 
didnt show. Which is what happened. And there is no aspect of the contract which saves 
Mrs G in such circumstances. So it would be unfair for Creation to bear such a loss which 
isnt its fault either.
Mrs G says she cant afford to lose this money. Im sorry thats the case. But that doesnt 
make it fair that Creation refund it.
Mrs G says theyre stealing her money. This isnt the case. And ultimately if non-refundable 
tickets are bought then there is no refund due.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mrs G wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mrs Gs avenues for recouping these significant funds spent here will be 
significantly limited. But this does not mean that Creation has done anything wrong in 
dealing with the issues arising from this transaction. Or that it should refund her.
Creation says it paid Mrs G £100 for its poor customer service. I think this is fair. 
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mrs G has said, Im not persuaded 
Creation has treated Mrs G unfairly. It has remedied its poor service. So I dont think Creation has done anything else wrong here which requires further remedy. And as a 
consequence Ive decided that Mrs Gs complaint shouldnt succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Creation Financial 
Services Limited. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman