DRN-2304902
The complaint
Mr I and Mr M complain that Insure the Box Limited (ITB) has not treated them fairly when 
changing the vehicle on their car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr I and Mr M took a car insurance policy out with ITB in January 2020 and paid for the 
years premium in full upfront. In March 2020, Mr I and Mr M asked ITB tell them how much it 
would be to replace the car insured on their policy. The previous car had been involved in an 
accident and was deemed a total loss so they needed to replace it. 
Mr I and Mr M were quoted, including an administration fee of £90 for the change, £918.16 
to change the vehicle. This quote was for a different make of car with a larger engine than 
the one which had been deemed a total loss. Mr I and Mr M asked IBT to provide a few other 
quotes for different vehicles all similar to their previous car. The cost offered to insure these 
varied from £753.50 to £614.35. 
Mr I and Mr M complained about the cost to change their vehicle. They didnt think it was fair 
that a vehicle with similar specifications to their previous one was going to cost them an 
additional £614.35 and that this price increased even further if they wanted to change the car 
beyond this. They asked if theyd be entitled to a refund on their existing policy but were told 
because of the open claim on it they wouldnt be entitled to a refund for any of the previous 
premiums paid. Unhappy with the cost of the insurance offered, they complained.
ITB looked into their complaint and said it was satisfied the quotes it offered were correct for 
the change of vehicle. It explained theres a number of factors which it rates on with vehicles 
and these might have changed since their policy was first taken out. When it was asked to 
insure the new cars it assessed the factors it considered for these and the cost of this risk 
and provided the cost of this as its quote. As Mr I and Mr M had paid for their insurance 
annually they didnt take it out with a credit agreement (the policy terms and conditions 
explain monthly payments are made with credit being provided). This meant they were not 
able to choose a monthly payment option for the new vehicle when making the change and 
the only way to make the payment was via a one of payment.
Our investigator looked at Mr I and Mr Ms complaint. She didnt think it had acted unfairly 
when it offered the price it did for the new insurance. She explained there is no set price an 
insurer needs to charge and ultimately it is for it to decide what the cost of the insurance it is 
offering should be. She couldnt see it had made any errors when providing the quote so 
didnt believe it needed to do anything else. She accepted it would have been helpful if ITB 
allowed customers to use alternative payment methods if a mid-term adjustment resulted in 
such a large difference in price. But she didnt make a recommendation that it needed to do 
anything differently here either.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr I and Mr Ms complaint. I understand this will be disappointing 
but Ill explain why.
ITB acts as an intermediary and doesnt provide the underwriting for the insurance itself. 
This is provided by two separate insurers. One insurer covers the bulk of the risk with the 
main part of the policy and a second insurer  provides cover for the uninsured loss 
protection. 
ITB provides the administration services including sales and deals with enquiries for mid-
term adjustments. Its role means it takes the instructions and in doing so, offers the total 
price for the insurance based on the combined price offered with its services and fees 
included. So while it doesnt set the underlying risk cost, ITB and its service impacts the 
overall cost. And its role as the administrator means it needs to ensure the correct 
information is recorded when making any amendments to the policy. As such, I think its fair 
to consider the complaint against it in relation to the price offered for the amended policy 
after Mr I and Mr M changed their vehicle.
When a consumer changes their insurance part way through the contract of insurance, wed 
refer to this as a mid-term adjustment. When Mr I and Mr M needed to change their vehicle 
after their original one was no longer drivable, they made a mid-term adjustment to their 
policy. When this happens we expect the business to only reassess and if need be, reprice 
the risk which is changing. So in this case it should apply its new view of the risk to the new 
vehicle only. If other parts of the overall risk were re-rated or changed beyond the vehicle 
and associated risks with this i.e. the postcode being rated again, it wouldnt be fair to apply 
the new rating for this with the change of vehicle.
ITB has shared with this service the information it input when the change of vehicle requests 
was made by Mr I and Mr M. I cant share with them what information it relies on when 
determining the price of the insurance offered as this is commercially sensitive, but Ive 
considered what its told me and whether the price offered did only reflect the change in 
vehicle. 
The only fields that changed on the quote for the new vehicle were for the things that 
changed. Im satisfied that even with the quote for the vehicle with similar specifications  to 
the previous vehicle, the reason for the difference in price is based on how this new vehicle 
was rated. There was no new rating given to any of the other existing details held for Mr I 
and Mr M and so the price was based on the change of vehicle only.
So I think ITB treated Mr I and Mr M fairly when offering the price it did to change the vehicle 
on the policy as a mid-term adjustment. The price offered was inclusive of the administration 
charge which is set out in the terms of conditions and was reflective of the cost ITB and its 
insurers were able to offer the insurance for. 
These terms and conditions also set out that any open claim or settled claim made during 
the period of policy cover means the full annual premium needs to be paid and if paid 
already, no refund is due. So I dont think ITB acted unfairly when it explained to Mr I and 
Mr M that they wouldnt be entitled to a refund if they chose to cancel the previous policy and 
take out a new one with another provider.I understand because Mr I and Mr M paid annually for their insurance that the mid-term 
adjustment for the change of vehicle needed to be paid in a one-off payment too.  And with 
the amount due for this change being a relatively large amount, I can see why they found 
this difficult to pay and the option of instalments would have been helpful. 
While agree with our investigator this would have been helpful to Mr I and Mr M, I dont think 
its fair to expect ITB to have done anything differently. Mr I and Mr M chose to pay for their 
insurance annually previously and this dictated how the policy was set up. It is unfortunate 
the additional premium required for the change of vehicle was as high as it was but as Ive 
said, Im satisfied this was based correctly on the change of vehicle only and how ITB and 
its insurers viewed the risk. As the policy was set up with out a monthly payment option, ITB 
hasnt done anything wrong when it was later unable to offer this when Mr I and Mr Ms 
preference changed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr I and Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman