DRN-3932253
The complaint
Mr W complains about Nationwide Building Societys complaint handling procedure. Also, 
their on-line credit card facilities and the standard of service he received at a branch.
What happened
Mr W complained to Nationwide about being unable to carry out a credit balance refund from 
his credit card to his savings account and he is dissatisfied with the Nationwide complaint 
handling escalation procedure. This is because he wanted a more senior manager to 
investigate the response he received, but instead was told to complain to our service.
Mr W also complains that Nationwide dont have a facility to complete credit card balance 
refunds. 
As this facility doesnt currently exist Mr W visited a Nationwide branch, and he is dissatisfied 
at the service he received. Mr W says he arrived at the branch shortly before closing time 
and, because of this, the representative incorrectly stated they couldnt contact card 
services.
Mr W complained to our service and our investigator didnt uphold his complaint.
As Mr W remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must first explain to Mr W that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity 
and as such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to Nationwides investigation and 
escalation procedure dont come under my powers to consider.
Also, as we arent the regulator of the financial services industry, this service cant instruct a 
business to alter its procedures, processes or systems. So, whilst I understand Mr Ws 
dissatisfaction that he doesnt have a facility to complete a credit balance refund on his credit 
card, this isnt something I can ask Nationwide to change. 
I can though see that our investigator explained that credit cards are different and dont offer 
the same level of flexibility of transfers between accounts that youd expect from a current 
account.
As Mr Ws main complaints are about Nationwides complaint handling procedure and credit 
balance refund process, I appreciate he will be disappointed with my above response. 
I did though look closely at the available information on the standard of service Mr W 
received when he visited their branch. Im satisfied that the counter staff couldnt process Mr 
Ws transaction and it was necessary for a remote credit card services team to assist due to 
it being an exceptional transaction. I could understand Mr W expecting assistance here, 
however I found there was a difference in testimonies around the timing of Mr W visit and 
whether he in any way indicated he was happy to speak directly with the credit card services 
team. 
I appreciate Mr W says assistance wasnt offered. However, as there is conflicting evidence 
and a lack of CCTV, I cant say that Nationwide made an error here and ask them to pay 
additional compensation. 
Finally, I can see that Nationwide have explained their policy on staff not having to give out 
their names where they feel uncomfortable, and I think this is fair and reasonable. 
So, considering all the above Im not asking Nationwide to do anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman