DRN-3301870
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) has unfairly declined 
a claim they made under their Buildmark policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
Mr and Mrs H bought their property in December 2017. Noticing issues with heat 
retention, Mr and Mrs H raised this with the builder of the property initially, then to 
NHBC. Following some back and forth, NHBC engaged its resolution service. 
A resolution report was produced which directed the builder to complete 
investigations and deal with any heat retention issues by February 2020.
NHBC said due to Covid-19, investigations were delayed. It then took over the claim 
and investigations began in February 2021, with a report produced in April 2021. 
NHBC said a heating contractor reported the heating within the property was 
adequate within a second resolution report produced in in June 2021.
Mr and Mrs H complained. NHBC agreed it had made mistakes in its handling, 
service and communication and offered £700. NHBC carried out further 
investigations in August 2021. Mr and Mrs H complained about the lack of notice or 
information around the visit and NHBC offered an additional £100.
NHBC said its investigations werent yet complete. So, it was unable to conclude at 
that time if there was a breach of technical requirements or not. And a further visit 
was arranged for October 2021. Discussion of further visits also took place around 
this time. And NHBC said it had arranged a communication plan going forwards to 
keep Mr and Mrs H up to date with events as it continues to investigate.
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to this Service. They said the delays had 
caused distress and inconvenience. 
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. 
She considered a thermographic survey provided, and said while this highlighted 
issues with airflow, it didnt show any particular breaches of the NHBC technical 
requirements as it would need to, to be covered. She acknowledged the unnecessary 
delays were impactful, but NHBCs intention to continue investigating the issue at this 
time was reasonable. Overall, she felt NHBCs offer of £800 was reasonable for the 
mistakes it had made.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed, providing photos, temperature readings, and further 
commentary. They said the thermographic report showed failures in heat retention of 
the home with significantly different readings across rooms. And NHBCs agents had 
already investigated all relevant areas of the home and should just settle the claim. 
They also said their energy bills have been highly inflated and should be covered. 
The Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. She said the information 
provided didnt highlight any particular technical requirement, so she wasnt 
persuaded NHBC was acting unreasonably by continuing to investigate. She also 
said as a result it was too early to determine if it should also cover energy bills.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim
In this case, Mr and Mrs H are seeking to claim on their Buildmark policy under section 2, 
events that occur within the first two years of the warranty.
NHBC produces a set of technical requirements, which builders need to comply with when 
building (or converting) a property. As the claim was made within the first two years, the 
warranty allows NHBC to act as a mediator between the builder and consumer in order to 
determine if the builder has failed to meet its technical requirements, and decide what it 
should do to meet their responsibilities under Buildmark.
This is known as the resolution service. NHBC will typically produce a resolution report 
which outlines all of the above. In this case, NHBC did direct the builder to carry out 
investigations under a resolution report, and following this it took responsibility for them itself.
In June 2021 it produced a second resolution report. Within which it determined there was 
not a failing in the heating design of the property, having considered the placement and size 
of radiators within its investigation. Mr and Mrs H have also agreed the heating system is not 
at fault for the issues experienced.
The report concluded that further investigation into the thermal performance of the external 
envelope of the over-garage room was required to determine whether this item complies with 
NHBC technical requirements. 
Mr and Mrs H say the cause of the issues is the airflow behind non-insulated plasterboard on 
the north and south elevations of their property. But theyve not directed me to any particular 
technical requirements to show where a breach has occurred.
There appears to be no dispute from NHBC that Mr and Mrs Hs home is suffering from an 
issue as theyve described. But as Ive outlined, for this to be covered under the policy, the 
builder must have breached a technical requirement during the build. It is not sufficient for 
there to be simply to be an issue.
NHBC says it still needs to carry out further investigations to establish whether a 
requirement has been breached. So, Ive thought about whether this is reasonable and Ive 
reviewed the technical requirements myself. 
Having done so, its not clear to me what technical requirement specifically Mr and Mrs H 
would seek to rely on or how the requirement had been breached. So based on what I have, 
even if I was in agreement with Mr and Mrs Hs diagnosis of the problem, this wouldnt 
persuade me there had been a breach of the technical requirements. 
So, it seems to me that further investigation of the problem from NHBC is the most sensible 
solution going forward. And I will leave this to NHBC to do. Should it subsequently determine 
the claim is covered then I would expect it to consider any additional costs or fees Mr and 
Mrs H have incurred.Handling 
NHBC has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to provide appropriate 
information on the progress of his claim to its policyholders.
In this case, NHBC has apologised and recognised various issues and mistakes it has made 
across the life of this claim. These have included unnecessary delays, poor communication, 
as well as service provided by its agents. As these have been detailed by our Investigator at 
length previously I wont go over these points again, but Im satisfied NHBC has not met its 
obligations to handle the claim promptly or keep Mr and Mrs H updated as it shouldve done.
Taking into account everything thats happened, its clear to me NHBCs actions and 
mistakes have caused a lot of distress, inconvenience and avoidable frustration for Mr and 
Mrs H. In light of these mistakes and the impact theyve had against the offer of £800 NHBC 
has put forward, Im satisfied this sum is fair compensation in the circumstances. And Im not 
going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman