DRN-3448768
The complaint
Mr S complains that Target Servicing Limited has treated him unfairly by asking him to repay 
overdue management fees. Mr S says this is unfair as it was Targets error that led to the 
fees not being paid sooner.
Mr S would like Target to waive the outstanding management fees. 
What happened
Mr S took out a help to buy shared equity loan in September 2017 that has been 
administered by Target. 
Target says that, due to an administration error, Mr Ss direct debit instruction wasnt set up 
when he took out the loan. This meant that the management fee of £1 per month hasnt 
been paid since the start of the loan. Mr S only found out about this over three years later 
when Target reviewed any accounts that didnt have an active direct debit. 
On 6 May 2021 Target wrote to Mr S. Target asked him to set up a new direct debit 
instruction for the management fee going forward and to arrange to repay the arrears of £44 
that had built up since the start of the loan. 
Mr S complained to Target. He said it was Target that had failed to request the management 
fee from him, rather than he who had failed to meet his contractual obligations. Mr S said 
hed been unaware that a monthly management fee hadnt been requested since taking out 
the equity loan. Target issued a final response letter to his concerns, upholding part of the 
complaint. 
Target agreed that the payments hadnt been taken due to its administrative error and that it 
was sorry that Mr S hadnt been told about this for so long. However, Target still said that Mr 
S needed to make up the missed payments now. It said the unpaid management fees were 
due to be paid by Mr S under the terms and conditions of the contract he had signed when 
he took out the equity loan. Target said it was unable to waive any of the management fee 
payments despite its error.
Mr S was unhappy with Targets response and referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He thought Mr Ss complaint should be 
upheld. He thought Target was contractually entitled to have been paid the £1 monthly 
management fee, but he thought it was reasonable that Target waived the £44 of 
management fees outstanding to the point its error was identified. He said Targets handling 
of the issue had caused upset to Mr S. He thought it fair that Target pay Mr S £75 for the 
trouble and upset its mistake had caused to him.  
Target didnt agree with our investigators findings. It asked that an ombudsman look at the 
complaint again and reach a final decision on the matter.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that this complaint should be upheld. I also agree with our 
investigator about what should be done now to put things right. 
Ive looked at the terms of the agreement signed by Mr S. Im satisfied it was made 
reasonably clear that there was a £1 monthly management fee to be paid. However, Target 
has admitted that it made a mistake administering Mr Ss help to buy equity loan. Target has 
agreed that it was at fault for not asking for the management fee for years and that its sorry 
its mistake went unidentified for so long. 
I can understand why Mr S was surprised and disappointed to receive the letter from Target 
saying he was behind with the payment of fees. As Mr S has said, this situation only came 
about because Target failed to ask for payments. I can see why Mr S hadnt noticed this 
small payment of £1 per month hadnt been taken after he purchased his property. 
In the particular circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it is fair for Target to ask Mr S 
to repay the management fees from the start of the loan to the date the problem was brought 
to his attention. Im persuaded that if Mr S had known that he was underpaying this amount 
sooner, he would have made the payments of £1 each month over the years. Targets 
administrative error meant he didnt have this opportunity. 
I consider that but for Targets error, Mr S would have made this payment each month for 
years. After all, Mr S had completed the direct debit instruction when he took out the loan 
and he hasnt said he was unwilling to pay this fee over the years as it fell due. It is only 
because of Targets mistake that Mr S has found himself asked to make a payment of £44 in 
2021. While Im satisfied this amount was due under the contract, I dont think it is fair and 
reasonable that Target ask Mr S to pay those historic fees now. 
While Target did accept its mistake, it didnt recognise the impact that its mistake made on 
Mr S. Targets actions caused disappointment and frustration to Mr S and I agree with our 
investigator that a payment of £75 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr S is appropriate in 
the circumstances.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think that its fair and reasonable that Target doesnt collect the monthly 
management fee from the start of the equity loan to May 2021, when the issue was identified 
and explained to Mr S. I believe this amounts to it not collecting outstanding management 
fees of £44.
In addition, I consider it fair that Target should pay Mr S £75 for the trouble and upset 
caused to him by its mistake.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint against Target Servicing Limited is upheld. I direct 
Target Servicing Limited to do the following to settle the matter:
- Not collect the monthly management fee from the start of the equity loan to May 2021 
when the issue was identified and explained to Mr S;- Pay Mr S £75 for the trouble and upset caused to him by its mistake. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman