DRN-4339550
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the service he received from Investec Bank PLC surrounding a request 
for information that he made to them.
What happened
To briefly summarise: Mr G asked Investec for information about the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) limits. Specifically, Mr G wanted to know whether any 
interest he earned on his Investec accounts would be covered in addition to their £85,000 
FSCS scheme limit or whether the £85,000 limit was a hard limit such that once it was 
reached no further amount, including interest, would be covered.
Mr G receiving conflicting information from Investec in response to this question, which led to 
ongoing communication between Mr G and Investec while Mr G sought a clear explanation 
from them. Mr G wasnt happy about the provision of conflicting information or the service he 
was receiving from Investec surrounding his ongoing query, so he raised a complaint.
Investec responded to Mr G and apologised for the conflicting information hed received and 
confirmed the correct information to him. Investec also made a payment of £300 to Mr G as 
a goodwill gesture for the trouble and upset the ongoing matter had caused. Mr G wasnt 
satisfied with Investecs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt the response that Investec had 
issued to Mr Gs complaint already represented a fair resolution to what had happened. Mr G 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
I also note that Mr G has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr G for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr G notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr G and Investec. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
One of Mr Gs points of complaint here is that hes unhappy with how Investec have handled 
the complaint he brought to them. However, as per the rules by which this service must 
abide  which can be found in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook  this service is only able to consider complaints about 
specified activities, of which complaint handling isnt one. This means that this service cant 
consider a complaint about how a business has handled a complaint, and it follows from this 
that this aspect of Mr Gs complaint isnt one that its within my remit to consider. 
Investec apologised to Mr G for the provision of conflicting information about the FSCS 
limits, and they confirmed the correct information and made a goodwill gesture payment of 
£300 to him. This seems like a fair resolution to Mr Gs complaint to me, so I wont be 
instructing Investec to do anything more.
Mr G feels that hes engaged in a long and ongoing correspondence with Investec, that he 
reasonably shouldnt have had to engage in, because of the conflicting information he 
received from them. Im in agreement with Mr G, in part. But given that Mr Gs question was 
about FSCS limits, I feel that if Mr G wasnt satisfied with the responses that he received 
from Investec that he should have sought clarification from the FSCS directly. 
This is because Mr G was asking Investec about information about the FSCS. And while it 
would be expected that Investec would seek to answer Mr Gs queries, the information they 
were providing was, ultimately, being relayed to Mr G by Investec from the FSCS  at least 
in part. And so, while I accept that Mr G has been inconvenienced by what happened here, I 
feel that this was an inconvenience that Mr G reasonably could and should have mitigated 
against by seeking clarification of the FSCS scheme limits from the FSCS themselves.
Its also difficult to see what material impact the events in question have had on Mr G here. I 
say this because the FSCS limits apply to all businesses covered by the scheme. This 
means that if Mr G wasnt happy with the answer to his query, he couldnt have found a more 
appealing outcome with any alternative business. And while I appreciate Mr Gs concerns 
here, I also feel it must be noted that these concerns would only crystalise in the unlikely 
event of the total collapse of Investec as a going concern.
For these reasons, I dont agree with Mr Gs position that Investec should make further 
payment to him as compensation for whats happened here. And I also feel that the way that 
Investec have addressed Mr Gs concerns and confirmed the correct information to him is a 
fair and reasonable outcome to whats taken place.
It follows therefore that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Investec to take any 
further action. I trust that Mr G will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman