DRN-1981200
The complaint
Mrs C says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1996 in one of the banks branches at the 
same time as Mrs C opened her credit card account. It gave her protection against 
accident, sickness and unemployment, and included some life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it 
here. Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint, Ill explain why.
Mrs C says she doesnt remember agreeing to PPI and theres no evidence she actually 
ticked the box on the application form. I cant know what was discussed in the meeting but I 
have looked at the paperwork from the sale. 
On the application form Mrs C signed there is a tick in the Yes box for PPI indicating that 
she wanted it. Set out with equal prominence, there was the option to decline PPI by ticking 
a No box. I have thought carefully about Mrs Cs comments. She has suggested the PPI 
box could have been ticked afterwards but, whilst I am not a handwriting expert, the tick 
seems consistent with all others on the form. And had she not wanted PPI, I would have 
expected the No box to be ticked. Overall, I think Barclays made clear the PPI was 
optional and Mrs C agreed to take it. I can understand she might not recall this given how 
long ago the sale was.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs C so it had to check if it was suitable for her. I think 
it was right for her based on what Ive seen about her circumstances at the time. Mrs C told 
us she wasnt entitled to any sick pay and the PPI would have paid out for each successful 
accident and sickness claim for up to 12 months. It also gave her up to 12 months 
redundancy cover. 
Initally Mrs C said she had no other means, but more recently she has told us she had 
some money from an inheritance. She hasnt provided any more details, but the PPI would 
have allowed her to use any savings to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to 
keep them intact for her future needs. Overall I think the PPI would have been useful for 
Mrs C if she was sick, had an accident or lost her job.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear or complete 
as it should have been. But Mrs C chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted
this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs C 
wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I 
think she would still have taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mrs C has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman