DRN-3636324
The complaint
Miss B complains Monzo Bank Ltd didnt reimburse the money she lost when she was the 
victim of an advance fee scam.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Miss B was the victim of a scam when she was 
seeking to obtain a personal loan. 
Shed input her details on several online loan sites, and subsequently received a text 
message saying it was from a loan company and that shed been approved for a loan. The 
message asked Miss B to call them on an 0330 number to arrange the loan.
Miss B called them. She recalls they knew her details. They talked her through an 
application process for the loan, and Miss B says it all seemed professional. Miss B was told 
shed be able to borrow the money she needed.
The lender said shed need to pay one months repayment in advance, as a security deposit. 
But this meant shed have a bit of time before the second months payment would be due. 
Miss B duly sent the initial months payment of £140 from her Monzo account by Faster 
Payments transfer.
However, after this she was told there had been a problem with processing her loan 
application. Miss B was told the underlying bank was now insisting the lender set up an 
insurance policy for her loan. She was told this was required because she had a low credit 
score (which she knew was the case).
Miss B would need to pay that insurance premium to demonstrate that she could commit to 
repaying the loan. But they said the cost would be returned to her with the loan funds once 
everything had been settled. So, Miss B sent a second payment of £200.
Miss B didnt receive the loan funds in the timescale shed been promised. The lender 
started asking for more money and Miss B became concerned. She asked to cancel and to 
receive a refund. This was refused. Miss B then realised this hadnt been a legitimate lender. 
She reported the matter to Monzo as a scam.
Monzo didnt refund Miss B. It didnt dispute that Miss B had been the victim of a scam but 
said that Miss B hadnt taken sufficient care when shed made these two payments.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the CRM Code) but has explained that it is committed to applying the principles 
set out in it.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo said one or more of those 
circumstances (or exceptions) applies in this case. It said Miss B had made the payments 
without having a reasonable basis for believing she was paying to obtain a loan from a 
legitimate lender. It had given Miss B warnings about the risks of making Faster Payments 
transfers which she acknowledged shed read. 
Monzo also said:
- a scam warning had been posted on a non-UK central bank website about a cloned 
loan company with quite a similar name, prior to Miss B making her payments; 
- it thought it was reasonable to expect Miss B would have known she would never 
need to pay upfront to borrow money; and,
- she could have asked for a loan agreement before sending money and this might 
have made a difference.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Bs complaint and thought it ought to be upheld.
The investigator didnt believe Monzo had fairly assessed Miss Bs claim against the CRM 
Code. He didnt agree that Monzo had been able to establish Miss B made the payments 
without a reasonable basis for believing she was making them to a legitimate loan provider 
to secure a loan.
Monzo maintained its position. So, I have been asked to make a final decision on the 
outcome of Miss Bs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Miss B 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances, Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money that 
Miss B lost.
The money was sent from Miss Bs current account. It is not clear how Miss B would 
have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done. But if 
Monzo had refunded the money when it ought reasonably to have done, Miss B 
would not have been deprived of it for the time she has. So, Monzo should also pay 
interest on the balance not yet refunded at a rate of 8% simple per year. This interest 
should apply from the date Monzo first declined to refund Miss B, to the date of 
settlement.
Im satisfied that Monzo has not shown that Miss B made these payments without a 
reasonable basis for believing that she was paying a legitimate lender in connection with a 
loan. It is my finding that she took sufficient steps in the circumstances. I will go on to explain 
why I have reached this finding.
Ive taken into account the evidence provided by both sides. Under the terms of the CRM 
Code, the victim of an APP scam such as this should reimbursed unless the bank is able to 
establish that one (or more) of the exceptions to reimbursement can be applied.Monzo says it showed Miss B warnings prior to her making the first payment. Firstly, Im 
satisfied these were general scam warnings and werent specific to the scam that occurred. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont consider Monzo provided warnings that would meet the 
definition of an Effective Warning under the CRM Code  it therefore cannot rely on the 
relevant exception for Effective Warnings. 
Miss B does acknowledge seeing and reading the warning messages Monzo showed at the 
time - but says these didnt cause her concern. I have therefore considered whether these 
warnings ought to have changed how Miss B acted in the circumstances, or whether, in 
proceeding to make the payments, she did so without a reasonable basis for believing what 
she did.
One of the messages related to payee name verification, using the Confirmation of Payee 
system. Monzos records indicate that this generated a partial match or maybe match 
result  the type of result given when for example a persons initials are used rather than 
their full first name. Indeed, Miss B had input initials rather than the full first name so this 
would perhaps be the expected result. I dont consider this should have caused Miss B 
concern in the circumstances. 
Neither do I think the generic message shown at the foot of the new payee screen would 
reasonably have caused Miss B to think there was anything untoward about the transaction 
she was about to make. It suggested that if a customer had doubts, they should get some 
advice - with a link to more information on blog posts covering multiple types of scam and 
fraud. But Miss B didnt have doubts at this point (I will later go on to consider if that belief 
itself was reasonable). So, I dont find it unreasonable that the message failed to resonate 
with her at the time.
The third message Monzo says it gave referred to other types of scam  such as offers that 
were too good to be true or being told to ignore a warning. None of these messages related 
to the scenario here. It also said to stop unless the customer had double-checked who was 
being paid. Miss B had just received partial payee name verification prior to seeing this, so I 
dont consider it was unreasonable for her to believe this didnt relate to her situation either.
In short, and all things considered, I am not persuaded that the warning messages Monzo 
displayed establish that Miss B went ahead without a reasonable basis for believing what 
she did.
Monzo argues further that Miss B ought not have believed in the legitimacy of what she was 
being asked to do from the outset, irrespective of the warnings it gave. Ive considered the 
various points it has raised here. But I am not persuaded these establish that Miss B made 
the payments without a reasonable basis for belief.
In particular, Ive considered the online scam warning Monzo says should have been 
uncovered by a simple Google search. It was issued by an EU country, although does not 
appear to be directed at the UK. I consider it more significant though that it relates to a 
cloned firm which was using a different name to that Miss B thought she was dealing with. 
Whats more, a similar Google search reveal numerous other firms using similar names, with 
a common top search result being a legitimate lender. So, I am not persuaded that this 
external warning was relevant. Even had Miss B seen the warning, it simply didnt relate to 
the same firm.
And while the requirement for upfront fees might often indicate a lender is not legitimate, I 
am persuaded by Miss Bs testimony that she did not know this at the time. I am also not 
persuaded that the absence of a loan agreement should have caused Miss B concern - the evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest she was especially experienced in taking out loans of 
this type. 
Monzo raises other points which I have considered but which do not persuade me it can 
fairly apply the exception it seeks to rely on here. It was the expert in financial matters and 
Miss B a relatively vulnerable layperson. 
In short, I consider Monzo is setting too high a standard for Miss B here. Had it provided 
Miss B with a timely and specific warning on these points, or given her steps to follow, I 
might think differently, but Im not persuaded it showed Miss B such advice at the time. And I 
dont think she had doubts (or reasonable cause to have doubts) sufficient to prompt her to 
click through to and then research the linked blog postings Monzo refers to.
Overall, and in all the circumstances, I am not persuaded Monzo has established that Miss B 
made either or both payments without a reasonable basis for believing what she did. I am 
not persuaded that any of the exceptions to reimbursement under the CRM Code can be 
fairly applied here by Monzo.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Miss Bs 
complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd. I therefore require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Miss B:
The balance of the money lost through this scam, being the sum of £340 less any 
sums already reimbursed or otherwise refunded; and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date the bank 
originally declined Miss Bs claim until the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Bs complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman