DRN-3595985
The complaint
Mrs C and Ms C complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has turned down a claim they 
made on a personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
On 4 February 2020, Ms C visited her GP with chest pain. It seems shed reported slight 
pain the previous year, and shed experienced episodes of pain and breathlessness. Ms C 
had a family history of cardiomyopathy, amongst other cardiac conditions. The GP referred 
Ms C to a cardiologist. Also on 4 February 2020, Mrs C and Ms C took out a private medical 
insurance policy with AXA on a moratorium basis.
Ms C saw a cardiologist in May 2021, who Ill call Mr M. Mr M diagnosed Ms C with 
musculoskeletal chest pain and a stretched patent foramen ovale (a hole in the heart).
Following this appointment, Mrs C called AXA to let it know about Ms Cs diagnosis and to 
ask whether it would authorise a second opinion. AXA authorised the costs of an initial 
consultation, diagnostic tests and a follow-up consultation.
Ms C saw another cardiologist, Mr B, in December 2021. Mr B diagnosed an atrial septal 
defect (ASD - a type of hole in the heart) and discussed a procedure which Ms C could 
undergo to treat the ASD. He also recommended further tests to rule out possible causes of 
Ms Cs chest pain.
AXA assessed Mr Bs report and noted it referred to the previous referral to Mr M. It felt it 
needed further information about Ms Cs medical history prior to the policy being taken out 
before it would accept the claim and agree to cover any potential costs of surgery.
Mrs C and Ms C were unhappy with AXAs request for additional information and so they 
asked us to look into their complaint.
Ultimately, the GP provided AXA with further information which showed that Ms C had been 
referred to cardiology on 4 February 2020  the same day the policy was taken out. It 
concluded that Ms Cs condition fell within the policy moratorium period and that therefore 
the claim wasnt covered.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She considered the available 
medical evidence and she thought this showed that symptoms of Ms Cs condition had been 
present before the policy began. And so she thought itd been fair for AXA to conclude that 
the claim was excluded from cover.
Mrs C and Ms C disagreed. In summary, Mrs C said that given Ms Cs family history, they 
took cardiac conditions very seriously. They hadnt imagined anything was wrong with Ms 
Cs heart or that she had an underlying condition. The diagnoses of Mr M and Mr B had 
come as a shock. If theyd known that Ms C had a heart condition, theyd have brought this 
to AXAs attention when the policy was taken out. They felt that the investigators decision as 
flawed. And that it was important, when someone wasnt medically trained, to ensure that 
they dealt with the relevant facts rather than their understanding of a policy wording.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C and Ms C, I think it was fair for AXA to 
turn down this claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mrs C and Ms Cs policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether 
AXA handled this claim fairly.
Ive first turned to the terms and conditions of Mrs C and Ms Cs policy, as these form the 
basis of their contract with AXA. Page 28 of the policy says that private medical insurance is 
usually designed to cover treatment of new medical conditions that begin after a policyholder 
joins. Whether claims for pre-existing conditions will be met by AXA depends on the type of 
cover a policyholder has chosen. In this case, Mrs C and Ms C took out cover on a 
moratorium basis. The policy says:
If you joined us on moratorium terms, it means that you wont have cover for treatment of 
Medical problems you had in the five years before you joined us until:
 youve been a member for two years in a row; and
 youve had a period of 12 consecutive months since you joined that have been trouble-free 
from that condition.
I think the policy terms make it clear that AXA wont cover any medical conditions a 
policyholders had in the five years before the policy began. In this case, the relevant period 
moratorium period began in February 2015. AXAs defined what it means by a pre-existing 
medical condition as follows:
pre-existing condition is any disease, illness or injury that:
 you have received medication, advice or treatment in the five years before the start of
your cover, or
 you have experienced symptoms of in the five years before the start of your cover;
whether or not the condition was diagnosed.
In my view, AXA has made it clear that a policyholder doesnt need to have had a diagnosis 
of a particular condition in order for it to fall within the definition of a pre-existing medical 
condition. AXA has concluded that Ms Cs condition is pre-existing and therefore falls within 
the scope of the moratorium period. So Ive looked carefully at the available medical 
evidence to decide whether this was a fair conclusion for AXA to draw.
Ive first considered the cardiology referral letter from Ms Cs GP dated 12 February 2020. 
This said that Ms C had reported intermittent chest pain. It had begun at the end of the 
summer term in 2019 and Ms C had had fairly frequent episodes throughout October (2019) 
and had had more occasional episodes after that. The GP noted that Ms C had reported 
breathlessness when the episodes happened, as it was difficult to breathe.AXA asked Ms Cs GP surgery for further information about Ms Cs appointment in February 
2020. Another GP confirmed that Ms C had seen the referring GP on 4 February 2020 with 
the symptoms noted above and stated that Ms C was found to be breathless at times. 
Mr Ms letter of 21 May 2021 included a diagnosis of Ms Cs conditions. This diagnosis list 
included musculoskeletal pains. He noted that Ms Cs main complaint was intermittent chest 
pain episodes. He concluded that these were costo-chondritic chest pain episodes unrelated 
to her heart. Mr M also diagnosed Ms C with a hole in her heart.
Ive also considered Mr Bs letter of 13 December 2021. This also includes a diagnosis of 
chest pain under investigation. He stated: (Ms C) complains about intermittent mainly left 
sided chest pain without palpitations/tachycardia. He diagnosed Ms C with an ASD and 
suggested that he could look to discuss a future procedure with her. Mr B also stated that Ms 
C had: complaints about episodes of chest pain which are likely to be musculoskeletal in
origin. I have suggested to perform a 24h ECG-monitoring and bloods to rule out secondary
causes.
Having considered all of the available medical evidence, it does appear to me that the main 
reason for the GPs referral to cardiology was the symptoms of chest pain which Ms C 
appears to have been experiencing since the end of the summer in 2019. Mr M stated that 
Ms Cs main complaint was intermittent chest pain and it seems that Mr B wanted to further 
investigate the cause of Ms Cs chest pain. Both Mr M and Mr B included chest pain as a 
diagnosis. On this basis then, I dont think it was unfair for AXA to conclude that Ms C was 
experiencing symptoms of chest pain before the policy was taken out in February 2020. 
Its clear that neither Ms C nor Mrs C expected that Ms C would be given a diagnosis of ASD 
and I dont doubt how distressing this mustve been for them, especially given their family 
medical history. I sympathise with their position. But the referring GP did state that Ms C had 
experienced breathlessness alongside her chest pain and that during an episode of chest 
pain, it was difficult for Ms C to breathe. From my own research, I understand that 
breathlessness can be a symptom of ASD. So it follows that I dont think AXA acted 
unreasonably when it concluded that Ms C was experiencing cardiac symptoms in February 
2020, when the policy was taken out. And therefore, I find that Ms Cs condition does fall 
within the moratorium clause and is accordingly excluded from cover.
I accept that AXA did authorise Ms Cs appointment with Mr M in June 2021 and the 
diagnostic testing which she underwent. However, AXA says that during Mrs Cs call to it in 
June 2021, she told it that Ms C hadnt had any symptoms before her diagnosis with a hole 
in the heart and shed just been feeling a bit tired the year before. On that basis, I dont think 
it was unreasonable for AXA not to have requested any further information at that point, as I 
dont think there was anything to put it on notice that Ms Cs condition might have fallen 
within the scope of the moratorium clause.
Overall, on the facts of this case, I dont think it was unfair for AXA to find that Ms Cs claim 
was caught by the moratorium clause. And I dont think, in these specific circumstances, that 
it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct AXA to step away from a strict interpretation of 
the policy terms and conditions. So I find that it was fair for AXA to turn down this claim, 
based on the available evidence. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman