DRN-2167680
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined his claim under his 
contents policy for possessions stolen from his home during a burglary.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had buildings and contents insurance with RSA. Mrs M no longer lives at the 
property but is recorded as joint policy holder. For ease, I will refer only to Mr M.
Mr Ms home was burgled while he was visiting a neighbour. The burglars broke in from the 
back garden and through a kitchen window by smashing the glass. They stole some items, 
including cash, and damaged other items during their escape. Mr M reported the incident to 
the police and made a claim under his buildings and contents insurance. 
RSA has accepted Mr Ms claim under his buildings insurance for the damage to his home, 
which included a broken fence, broken kitchen window and damage to the glass in the 
conservatory door and side window. But it declined his claim for contents because hed left a 
key in the lock on the inside of his French doors. RSA thought he hadnt met the minimum 
security standards (MSS) endorsement set out in the terms of his policy. 
Mr M didnt agree because the French doors led from kitchen to conservatory and, therefore, 
werent external doors.  However, RSA said hed left the key in the kitchen window lock 
which was also a breach of the policy. Mr Ms witness statement supported this, but he 
complained that RSAs Loss Adjuster incorrectly recorded what hed said. 
Then, I issued a provisional decision in July 2020 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Theres no dispute that burglars broke into Mr Ms home and RSA accepted his claim for 
damage under his buildings insurance. However, RSA thinks that because he left keys in the 
French doors and kitchen window, Mr M breached the MSS exclusion clause of his contents 
insurance. 
For a claim to be considered, Mr M must show that he suffered loss because of an insured 
event  in this case burglary. Both parties are aware that video footage shows burglars 
entering Mr Ms garden from a neighbouring garden, although the actual act of breaking in is 
out of range. RSA is satisfied that the insured event happened. 
If its possible that an exclusion clause applies  in this case the MSS  its RSAs 
responsibility to prove. Briefly, the MSS clause says that when unoccupied, Mr M must lock 
external doors and windows, remove the keys and keep the keys out of sight. But I dont 
think RSA has provided enough evidence to support its view. Ill look at the two key points in 
turn.
French doors
Mr M admits he left the key in the French doors. But the French doors arent external doors. 
Photos taken on behalf of RSA and by Mr M, along with his supporting statement show this. 
The doors he referred to are those leading from his kitchen to the conservatory. The 
conservatory has further, external doors leading to the garden and Mr M says they were 
locked, and the key hidden under a pot inside the house. So, the evidence suggests Mr M 
did as the terms of the policy require. He locked the external door and kept the keys out of 
sight. Therefore, I dont think RSA has shown that he breached the exclusion clause.
RSA says that burglars exited the house with larger items because they were able to unlock 
and use the external door. That may be so. But the external door key was kept out of sight 
and its reasonable to believe that burglars wouldve found the key when searching through 
Mr Ms belongings. Its my understanding that the exclusion clause is there to minimise the 
risk of a burglar breaking into the property. The burglars were already in the property, so I 
dont think RSAs reasoning here is fair.
Kitchen window
The burglars entered Mr Ms home by breaking a kitchen window. RSA says the exclusion 
clause applies here because Mr M signed a statement to say he left the key in the window 
lock. He says the Loss Adjuster amended the statement after he signed it and the key wasnt 
in the lock. He also reports that the handle was snapped off. 
Ive looked at the witness statement and records of subsequent communication between Mr 
M and RSA and I can see that Mr M hasnt been consistent in his recollection of whether the 
key was in the window. Given the uncertainty and lack of evidence from both parties, Im not 
persuaded that it was reasonable for RSA to rely on just that first statement. 
Even so, if the key had been in the lock, I dont think this alone is enough for me to conclude 
that it was fair for RSA to decline Mr Ms claim. The policy says that the key should be out of 
view but, given that the burglars smashed the window anyway, Im not persuaded that the 
key being on view wouldve changed the outcome. The burglars were clearly intent on 
entering Mr Ms property and I think this is evidenced by another cracked window and the 
attempts to break the glass in the conservatory doors, neither of which appear to have had 
keys in sight.
In summary, I dont think RSA has provided enough evidence to prove that Mr M breached 
the exclusion clause. Therefore, I dont think it was fair to decline his claim for the reasons it 
gave. 
I think RSA should reconsider Mr Ms claim. But, to be clear, Im not asking RSA to accept 
the claim. It should reconsider his claim in accordance with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.  
Mr M asked for compensation in recognition of the stress and inconvenience this matter 
caused him. While I cant conclude that RSA declined Mr Ms claim fairly, the inconsistent 
information from both sides played a part in its initial decision. I dont think its fair to hold 
RSA entirely responsible for the way this matter has progressed and for that reason Im not 
going to ask RSA to pay compensation.
I said I was intending to:
uphold the complaint and I am minded to require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to 
reconsider Mr Ms claim under his contents policy for loss suffered as a result of the 
burglary.I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
RSA responded to say it didnt have any further comments to make.
Mr M responded to say he felt he had been listened to, but he repeated his explanation for 
the changes in his description of events. He also raised additional points of complaint about 
events during the claim review process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M explained again that his description of events changed because he believes the Loss 
Adjuster changed the detail in his statement. Its not possible, now, to determine whether 
that happened. However, the witness statement isnt the only evidence which is inconsistent. 
RSA provided evidence of differing accounts of the damage to the kitchen window, 
suggesting a lack of certainty about the extent of the damage. The person who repaired the 
window said he just replaced the glass, suggesting there was no other damage to the frame 
and, therefore, it was likely that the window was unlocked. Mr M said the handle was 
snapped off, suggesting it had been forced after breaking the glass because the window was 
locked. So, I decided that it wasnt fair to rely on a single report that the key was in the lock 
as a basis to decline the claim. 
But, given that RSA received conflicting information from more than one party, as I said in 
my provisional decision, its not fair to hold RSA entirely responsible for the way this matter 
progressed. 
Mr M believes he now has a claim for damages which he says is the result of the burglary 
and RSAs handling of his claim. He says his employment and health have been affected 
and he hasnt been able to change insurer because of this ongoing matter. Mr M thinks the 
value of his losses has increased from his initial claim of around £10,000 to a figure nearer 
£60,000. 
Before we can consider any complaint, the company must first have an opportunity to 
investigate and put matters right where it thinks it has done something wrong. Mr M 
mentioned his loss of income in an email to RSA after it declined his claim, but he didnt ask 
it to investigate. He reported that he would be taking the matter further. As Mr M hasnt 
complained to RSA about this new matter, I cant respond to it here. I understand that this 
has already been explained to Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must reconsider Mr Ms claim under his contents policy 
for loss suffered as a result of the burglary.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman