DRN-2458192
The complaint
 Mrs C complains about Creation Financial Services Limiteds (Creation) handling of a claim 
she made. Creation provided the finance for a sofa shed purchased which was of 
unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
 Mrs C purchased a sofa from a company Ill refer to as Company A.. The purchase was 
funded through finance provided by Creation. The sofa was delivered in October 2019 and 
says she made a complaint about the quality of it around four to five months later. When 
Company A went into liquidation, Mrs C got in contact with Creation.
Creation agreed that the sofa wasnt of satisfactory quality, however they said that Mrs C 
didnt raise a claim until having had the sofa for eight months, so shed had use of the sofa 
for that time. In its complaint response to our service, Creation made an offer to keep the 
eight months of premiums that Mrs C had made, refund the subsequent payments and write 
off the balance.
Mrs C was unhappy with this offer, saying that shed made the claim earlier than Creation 
was saying. As such, she requested a refund of all payments made to include the deposit, 
and for the balance to be written off.
Our investigator considered the complaint and said that whilst she agreed that Mrs C had 
use of the sofa, she recommended that Creation should keep only the first five months of 
payments made. This was because shed seen that Mrs C had made her claim earlier than 
Creation had said.
She said Creation should refund all of Mrs Cs other payments, including the deposit, and 
the balance should be written off. Once Mrs C had arranged collection of the sofa from the 
council, she should provide evidence of the cost of this to Creation to be refunded. Our 
investigator also commented on the poor customer service that Creation had provided, and 
recommended it pay Mrs C £100 compensation.
While Mrs C accepted our investigators recommendations, m, Creation didnt agree with 
them all. It accepted it should refund the premiums, reimburse the removal cost and write off 
the balance, but it didnt agree with the £100 compensation. It accepted it had requested a 
duplicate inspection. However, it said the delays in responding on the complaint was outside 
of its control due to Covid-19 implications and dealing with Company A who were in 
liquidation. 
Creation thought for these reasons that compensation should be limited to £50. As it didnt 
agree with the £100 compensation, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. And largely for the same reasons our 
investigator has given previously. Ill explain why.
I agree with our investigators conclusions and suggested solution in respect of the premium 
refunds, outstanding balance and removal costs for the sofa. And neither Mrs C nor Creation 
have disputed these aspects, so I dont intend to revisit them.
The remaining issue for me to decide on is the amount of compensation awarded on this 
complaint. Mrs C had raised the issue with her sofa in March 2020, with an appointment 
being made to inspect the sofa in June 2020. A subsequent complaint was raised by Mrs C 
in July 2020, with Creation issuing a holding letter for it in September 2020.
Complaint handling on its own isnt a regulated activity, so Im unable to comment on that. 
What I have seen is that Creation issued a response on the claim in November 2020, asking 
Mrs C for information that had already been provided. So, I think Creation caused 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience to Mrs C and hadnt progressed the claim when it 
had the information available to them to do so, five months earlier.
I understand that Creations response times for complaints may have been impacted by 
Covid-19, I dont see how incorrect information being provided by it so far into the claim is a 
result of this. And I appreciate that Mrs C would have been very frustrated with this oversight 
by Creation, as well as the length of time her claim was taking. She also had to spend time 
responding to Creations unnecessary request for information, meaning she had to spend 
more time than was necessary.
In summary, Creation didnt progress the claim as quickly as they couldve when they had all 
the information available to them. For the reasons Ive covered above, Im satisfied that £100 
compensation more appropriately recognises the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs 
C than the £50 suggested by Creation.  
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. To put things right, Creation Financial Services 
Limited must:
Refund all Mrs Cs  payments made on the agreement apart from the first five
Refund any deposit paid and write off the remaining balance
Reimburse Mrs C the cost of having the sofa removed, upon receipt of evidence of 
the cost.
Pay Mrs C £100 in compensation. Creation must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it Mrs C accepts my final decision. If it pays later 
than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman