DRN-3944817
The complaint
Mr U complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly closed his account
and recorded a default with credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr U had a credit card with NatWest. As a result of financial difficulties caused by Covid-19,
he called NatWest in March 2021 to arrange a payment plan and it was agreed hed pay £10
a month, for three months, with the first payment due on 3 April 2021. Mr U explained that he
thought his situation would improve after these three months, so he didnt need a longer
plan.
Mr U made a payment on 3 April 2021 but it didnt credit his account until 6 April 2021. As
the payment was late, NatWest wrote to Mr U at the address it held for him. It explained that
he should make the missed payment and that if he didnt then his account would be closed
and at risk of recovery action.
Mr U continued making payments in May and June 2021. But NatWest didnt hear from Mr U
in relation to the first payment or its letters and so it sent him a default notice in May 2021.
This explained that it would be closing his account and taking other associated actions if he
wasnt able to pay what he owed. As there was no further communication from Mr U,
NatWest eventually closed his account and recorded it as being in default with the credit
reference agencies in June 2021.
Mr U only discovered this had happened in July 2021 and complained to NatWest. It didnt
think it had done anything wrong though. It said Mr U didnt stick to the terms of the plan and
so it was entitled to have taken the actions it did. Mr U brought his complaint to this service.
During some initial discussions, NatWest still didnt believe that it had done anything wrong 
but offered £100 to settle the complaint. Mr U didnt accept this.
So one of our investigators looked at this and said that they didnt think NatWest had acted
unfairly here. Mr U hadnt stuck to the plan and they were satisfied that NatWest would have
made information about the method of making payments available to him. Mr U disagreed
and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision where my findings were as follows:
Having looked at all the circumstances and evidence here  I can understand NatWests
position. Technically speaking, its followed its processes and procedures here. Mr Us
payment reached his account after the date it was agreed hed make it by as a part of the
agreed plan. Thats not in dispute. But, my role is to consider whats fair and reasonable in
all of the circumstances of a complaint. Having done so, I think this is a situation where 
even though NatWest may have followed its processes and procedures  its led to an unfair
outcome in Mr Us individual circumstances.
Its unhelpful that NatWest cant provide the call recording of when the plan was agreed. Its
provided the call script that it says the member of staff would have followed and we have
some brief notes on what was agreed. But what was agreed isnt in dispute, what matters
here is the details of what Mr U was, or wasnt told. I note that the call script doesnt prompt
a case handler to explain anything in particular in respect of the payment method Mr U
wanted to use. It just explains that a member of staff should direct Mr U to the website where
it says to allow 5 working days for payments to reach an account.
Mr U says he wasnt told about making his payment in this way, or to allow for the time
NatWest recommends. Again, without the call  I cant know what was discussed here.
Although this isnt necessarily crucial for me to decide this case. Instead, an important
consideration here is that its very clear that Mr U intended to, could and did make the
payments NatWest wanted him to as a part of this plan. Hes provided clear evidence of
making the payments. Based on this, it seems like what happened here was a simple
misunderstanding about his chosen method of payment and what that would practically
mean here. Mr U simply instructed his payments on the dates NatWest wanted them to be
made by.
So I accept that, strictly speaking, Mr U didnt make payments in line with the plan. But with
that in mind, Ive also considered whether its fair and reasonable that, as a result of such a
simple misunderstanding, Mr U has now had his account closed and a default recorded on
his credit file for the next six years. I dont think it is. He clearly intended to make these
payments and could make them. His only mistake was that he didnt strictly do so by the
dates NatWest agreed with him. But, to Mr U  he had done what was required of him, even
if he had perhaps misunderstood the situation around this. But that seems to be a genuine
misunderstanding.
Ive also thought about the impact this has had and will continue to have on Mr U. A default
on his credit file would show other lenders that he couldnt maintain this account and that he
missed payments. But thats not quite a full, or accurate picture of the situation. Mr U did
make the payments, albeit later than NatWest wanted. He also says that, had the plan run its
course, he could have brought the account back in order. So it feels unfair that due to such a
small misunderstanding, Mr U will be disadvantaged in such a serious and lasting way.
There are a number of factors Ive considered in reaching the findings I have here. The
content of the script and the warning on NatWests website for example, along with the fact
that NatWest sent Mr U a number of letters explaining the situation. Mr U has said he didnt
receive these  which may not be down to NatWest. It could be problems with the post for
example. But what I have considered is that if he had received these, I think its very likely he
would have taken action. Its clear how important this is to him. I say that because when he
eventually contacted NatWest in July, it was in line with him thinking that the plan had been
running as intended and that he was looking for a way forward with it on that basis.
So, at this stage  having considered all the circumstances here  Im currently minded to
say that itd be fair and reasonable for NatWest to remove the default from Mr Us credit file,
bring the account back from the third party it has passed, or sold, this to and work with Mr U
to set up an agreeable way forward. Mr U has confirmed that he is now able to make
payments to the account in a way that should mean that he can avoid a default moving
forward.
NatWest has offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill to try and resolve this complaint. I see no
reason to say that it shouldnt still pay this given the circumstances here. I think NatWest
could have thought more about the situation when Mr U told it about what had happened and 
provided his evidence of payments. That could have meant less frustration and
inconvenience in having to deal with this situation  which £100 is fair to recognise.Mr U responded to say he agreed, although he raised a new issue which our investigator 
explained would have to be dealt with separately. 
NatWest responded to say that it didnt default the account because a single payment was 
late by three days. Instead, it was because he would have missed three months of payments 
and also not acted on the letters it sent advising him of the consequences of missing his 
payments. These letters were sent and NatWest also said that Mr U chose to pay in the way 
he did and that the consequences of this would have been read to him, but he didnt leave 
enough time to make his first payment. So I now have to reach a final decision on this 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what NatWest has said in relation to the outcome I suggested in my 
provisional decision  but that hasnt changed my mind on whats fair here. I am aware that 
NatWest didnt just default Mr U because he missed one payment. But, the default and 
related actions NatWest took nonetheless stemmed from a payment being made a few days 
late. As I said in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that this late payment was the result of 
a genuine misunderstanding and that Mr Us actions (or lack of) after this were too.
Ive acknowledged the letters that NatWest sent to Mr U explaining what the situation was 
with his account. As I said in my provisional decision  its not clear why Mr U didnt get 
these but Im persuaded that had he done so, that he would have taken action to rectify the 
situation if he had the chance. NatWest has said that Mr U would have clearly been advised 
of the need to make payments on time  although thats not specifically explained within the 
script that NatWest provided. 
So I acknowledge NatWests points that Mr U made his payment late and that NatWest sent 
him letters around this. But I still think that Mr U has ended up in an unfair situation where he 
is being disproportionately affected by what is more likely than not a genuine 
misunderstanding. In the individual circumstances here, I think what I suggested in my 
provisional decision remains the fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint  so its 
this that NatWest should now do.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc must:
remove the default recorded in relation to this account and record there being an
arrangement to pay between April 2021 to June 2021, and;
bring, or buy, back the debt from any third party it is currently with and agree a
mutually acceptable way forward with Mr U in relation to payments, and;
pay Mr U £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman