DRN-2523632
The complaint
Ms H complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited mis-sold a motor insurance policy 
to her and provided poor service in general.
What happened
Ms H said shed had a motor policy through Hastings for three years and its service had 
always been poor. She said it had offered to pay her £30 compensation in March 2020 but 
hadnt done so. Ms H said Hastings had agreed to provide a policy with fully comprehensive 
cover - but had instead sold her third-party only insurance.  She said that meant when she 
had an accident, she wasnt entitled to have her car repaired, get a courtesy car or benefit 
from the uninsured drivers promise she thought shed paid for. Ms H also said that Hastings 
had charged her the wrong sum at renewal in 2020.
 
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Hs complaint.  She said Ms H had bought the policy 
online, from a comparison website, so Hastings hadnt provided any advice about the policy 
at the point of sale. She also noted that Ms Hs policy offered comprehensive cover, so she 
was entitled to repairs, a courtesy car and cover under the uninsured drivers promise (if 
appropriate). The investigator noted that Hastings could show it had paid £30 compensation 
into Ms Hs account in March 2020  and that the sum charged at renewal was correct. 
Ms H asked for a review of her complaint by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the initial service issues Ms H raised in March 2020 (about an error with a payment 
and with some policy documents) were dealt with by Hastings in the way it told Ms H they 
would be, by paying her £30 compensation. It seems Ms H accepted that sum. Hastings said 
if there was any problem with the payment, she should let it know. 
Hastings only administers the motor insurance cover provided to Ms H by her insurer. It 
didnt sell the policy to her initially, as she chose it online in 2018, but she renewed it twice 
through Hastings. Its clear from the policy documents that Ms H had fully comprehensive 
insurance from the start. So the evidence shows that she was mistaken in believing she only 
had third-party cover from 2018 to 2020  or that Hastings had wilfully and fraudulently mis-
sold policies to her.  
In my opinion, confusion arose after Ms H made a claim on the policy in March 2020. She 
dealt with Hastings staff at that time - and as the claim didnt proceed in the way Ms H had 
expected it would, she believed that was due to Hastings poor service and mis-selling. I can 
see why she thought that was the case, but in my opinion, it isnt supported by the facts.   
Ms H also raised a separate complaint about the insurer, which has already been dealt with 
by another ombudsman. He considered all the issues for which the insurer was responsible. 
They included whether the way Ms Hs claim was dealt with overall was reasonable, whether 
she should have been paid for the cost of new parts for the car before the accident, whether 
it was fair not to provide a courtesy car and whether the uninsured drivers promise applied in 
her case. He found that the insurer had acted reasonably in relation to all these issues. The 
concerns listed by Ms H set out above have been considered in the complaint against the 
insurer  they arent matters that should be addressed in this complaint about Hastings.  
Ms H told us that Hastings had offered her a price for the new premium at renewal in 2020 
and had then charged her more than that for the policy. She also said the advisor told her 
Hastings didnt insure cars for less than £500. Hastings wasnt responsible for the cost of the 
insurance. But it has provided documents to show that Ms H was mistaken in thinking shed 
been misled by the advisor, plus a copy of the 2020 renewal call recording. 
Ive listened to the recording, and I didnt hear the advisor say anything about not providing 
cover for cars worth under £500. During the call, the advisor made obvious efforts to find the 
cheapest renewal price for Ms H, and the lowest one she could find was for £206.85. Ms H 
seemed happy with that - and the documents show that its the price she was charged.
Ms H told us that Hastings poor service was mainly provided in the calls between her and its 
advisors. She thought the renewal call in 2020 was of particular concern, but in my opinion 
the advisor provided good service to Ms H. Ive also listened to the renewal call in 2019, to 
the call in March 2020 when Ms H reported the accident, and to the call in which the options 
for her in proceeding with her claim or not were explained to Ms H. In my opinion, all the 
advisors provided good service to Ms H during these calls. 
Some time after she made her complaint about Hastings to us, Ms H told us she got a 
renewal notice from it in March 2021. She thought that showed more fraud on Hastings part, 
as she says she has no car to insure  and in her opinion, Hastings told her in 2020 that it 
wasnt providing cover for the car that was written-off. As far as I can see, this issue hasnt 
been raised with Hastings, so it hasnt had a chance to respond. But I think its clear from all 
the details Ive seen that Ms Hs car was insured in 2020. 
    
I understand why Ms H was distressed by the events that followed the accident and why she 
thought Hastings might be to blame for what happened. But I dont think theres any 
evidence of poor service or mis-selling on its part, so I cant uphold Ms Hs complaint.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman