DRN-3089878
The complaint
Mr B says Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited (Mutual) lent to him irresponsibly. 
He says he was in a debt spiral and that the Mutual loans made his already poor financial 
situation worse. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about five home collected loans Mutual provided to Mr B between 
August 2016 and July 2018.
loan 
numberdate startedamount 
borrowedterm date ended
1 06/08/2016 £500 51 02/08/2017
2 04/03/2017 £500 51 20/12/2017
3 15/07/2017 £750 51 18/07/2018
4 17/02/2018 £500 51 30/01/2019
5 21/07/2018 £2,000 102 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think that Mutual lent irresponsibly 
for loans 1 to 4. But he thought it shouldnt have approved loan 5. He thought it should have 
made better checks before approving this loan, but he didnt have enough information to 
uphold the complaint on this basis. In any event, he also thought the lending pattern itself 
was harmful. So Mutual shouldnt have lent for this reason. 
Mutual disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Ive read in total what Mutual has said, and 
its own summary of this is below:
Completely arbitrary criteria have been applied without any reasons and contrary to 
statements made by this Service and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) publicly.
No reasons or explanation have been given by the Financial Ombudsman Service to 
support its view and the assertions made.
The mid-cost of Mutuals product, the length of the product and the product features 
have been assessed with a short-term lending approach which is not appropriate to 
its lending.
The pattern of lending shows no signs of unsustainable borrowing.
The customer has made inroads into the account and completely repaid all 
outstanding balances, in full and on time.
There is no evidence of any financial difficulties or harm.
Mutual robustly assess affordability and creditworthiness in a manual review 
including considering the sustainability of the lending.
The FCA has said repeat lending in home credit is common and does not cause 
harm.
There is no evidence the customer was reliant on the loans.
No evidence has been provided by the customer to show the loans caused them 
financial problems.
There is no requirement for the customer to have a break in lending contained in 
any rule or guidance we are aware of.
The first loan should not set the limit for further loan amounts. To do so would be 
completely irresponsible.
Taking 5 loans over 3 years is not the same as taking 5 loans in 1 year.
Mr B didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and Ive explained why below.Mutuals response to the adjudicators opinon concerns how it defines the cost of the credit 
and the risk of it to Mr B. It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. This Service has 
responded to Mutual on these issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, 
and the published decisions on our website. So, Im not going deal with these points at 
length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe this lending as high cost credit, as 
does the FCA, which includes home collected credit within its identified high cost credit 
cohort. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example, a payday loan, that does not 
make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And, as such, long-term use of 
these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not said anything to the contrary 
on this point. I have considered these issues alongside everything else in making my 
decision.
Mr B didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 4. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. And, for the avoidance of doubt, 
given the evidence I have, I dont disagree with what the adjudicator said about this lending. 
And they are part of the borrowing relationship Mr B had with Mutual. So, they something I 
will take into account when considering the other loan he took.
I havent looked at whether Mutual made proportionate checks before this lending as I dont 
need to do so here. But I will comment that much of the information provided by Mutual 
about the checks it made concerns the process its agents would have followed. But there 
is very little evidence to show these processes were followed here. The information it 
provided from the time of sale seems to be very brief and it doesnt really get to the bottom 
of Mr Bs financial circumstances or why he was taking these loans. Indeed some of it 
raises concerns, for example at one point Mr B is reorded as being unemployed. But, 
overall, Im not clear how outlining the policies its agent is supposed to have followed, but 
may not have, are helpful here. Im not able to place any weight on descriptions of what 
ought to have happened.
Notwithstanding my concerns about the sales process itself, Ive looked at the overall 
pattern of Mutuals lending history with Mr B, with a view to seeing if there was a point at 
which Mutual should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Mutual should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any 
further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think that this point was reached at 
loan 5. I say this because:
Mr B had been indebted to Mutual for around two years. Loans 1 to 4 were intended 
to run for around a year, so Mutual could have expected this would be the case. But 
this is still a long time to be using high cost credit. 
I do note that Mr B did repay his loans within the agreed term. But after around the 
mid-point of loan 1 he generally had more than one loan running at the same time. I 
dont think this shows a decreasing use of this type of credit. 
I think taking out five longer term high cost loans, over this period, is a strong 
indicator that Mr B was starting to struggle financially. And overall, rather than a 
picture of decreasing indebtedness which would happen when a loan is taken and 
repaid, there was a pattern of repeated and increasing borrowing. 
Loan 1 was for £500. But loan 5 was a significant increase in this at £2,000. And Mr 
B needed to take this over an extended term of two years. At this point Mutual ought to have known that Mr B was not likely borrowing to meet a shorter-term shortfall in 
his income but to meet an ongoing need.
So, because of the above factors, Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely 
than not that Mr Bs indebtedness was now unsustainable at loan 5. 
Right from the start Mr B was provided with a new loan within a short time of settling 
an earlier one, or when he hadnt repaid an existing loan. So, there wasnt an 
appreciable time when Mr B wasnt in debt to Mutual. 
Mr B paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mutual over a long 
time.
I think that Mr B lost out because Mutual provided loan 5 because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr B borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loan 5 and Mutual should put things right.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate 
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case said that the 
relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under 
four loans a year. It said, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on the 
same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talking 
about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with some 
different considerations, than whether a loan or series of loans, has been lent irresponsibly.
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows 
that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this judgement 
was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home collected 
credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different 
considerations. And indeed has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of 
short term high cost credit providers. So this means that the judges conclusions about a 
differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect of decided whether a lending pattern 
is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to be 
also looked at, as Ive done above.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any 
arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about this complaint.
  
Putting things right
Mutual shouldnt have given Mr B loan 5.
If Mutual has sold any outstanding debts Mutual should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Mutual is not able to buy the debts back then Mutual 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.A) Mutual should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Mutual should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mutual should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr B as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr B having made 
overpayments then Mutual should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Mutual should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Mutual should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B. Mutual shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mutual has already written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Mr Bs borrowing by loan 5 means any information recorded about it 
is adverse, so it should remove this loan entirely from Mr Bs credit file. Mutual does not 
have to remove loan 5 from Mr Bs credit file until it has been repaid, but Mutual should still 
remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mutual to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax Mutual has deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman