DRN-4029919
The complaint
Mr S complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) hasnt refunded in full the money he 
lost when he fell victim to an email interception scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it 
again here. Instead, Ill provide an overview of what happened and focus on giving my 
reasons for my decision. I would, however, like to reassure the parties that Ive read and 
considered everything in its entirety.
In October 2021, Mr S fell victim to an email interception scam. He was getting some 
building work done to his house and had engaged with a firm which had been recommended 
to him by a family member. Unfortunately, the firms email account was hacked, and Mr S 
received a request to pay a 50% deposit. He authorised a payment for £8,400  50% of the 
quoted price  from his Starling account to the account details included in the email. When 
the money didnt leave his account, Mr S attempted the payment again. This time, the 
payment left his account.
The next day, Mr S learnt that the firms email had been hacked. He also discovered that two 
payments had debited from his Starling account  one at the time of the payment instruction, 
the other in the early hours of the following morning. Mr S contacted Starling and reported 
the matter. It accepted hed been scammed and refunded the first payment. But it refused to 
refund the second payment  it said Mr S could have prevented the loss arising from the 
second payment by not instructing Starling to make the payment twice. Mr S complained and 
although its position remained unchanged, Starling paid £100 compensation in recognition of 
delays in responding to his complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and ultimately concluded that Mr S was 
due a full refund of the second payment under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
code, which says that firms should refund customers that fall victim to authorised push 
payment scams like this one except in a small number of circumstances. The investigator 
recommended Starling to refund the second payment along with 8% interest. They also 
explained that as the compensation Starling had paid was in relation to complaint handling, it 
wasnt something this service could comment on.    
Starling didnt agree with the investigators findings and requested an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary, it argues that the second payment was made outside of the scam as it 
debited due to Mr Ss own negligence  he set up a future dated payment and didnt cancel it 
after making an immediate payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I understand Mr S believes there was a glitch in the banks systems which resulted in 
his original payment instruction not being executed until the following day. While I 
appreciate he didnt knowingly set up a future-dated payment, the evidence Starling 
has provided shows that the instruction it received from Mr S was for the payment to 
be executed the next day. 
Starling argues that the future-dated payment wasnt made because of the scam  it 
says it left Mr Ss account because of his mistake which it believes amounts to 
negligence. I understand the point Starling is trying to make here. But I dont agree 
that the payment wasnt made in connection with the scam. Its unfortunate that Mr S 
unwittingly authorised two payments. The fact remains that they were initiated off the 
back of the scammers instructions. But for the scam, Mr S wouldnt have made 
either payment. By instructing two payments, arguably Mr Ss actions could be 
deemed as careless. But Im not convinced they amount to negligence such that the 
provisions of the CRM code shouldnt apply. After all, as Starling itself acknowledges, 
Mr S didnt realise he what hed done. Its not the case that he disregarded an 
obvious risk and purposely sent 100% of the money when only half had been 
requested. 
As Ive found that the provisions of the CRM code apply to the future-dated payment 
as well, the starting position is that Starling should reimburse Mr S the payment in full 
except in limited circumstances (or exceptions). It is for Starling to establish that one 
or more of the exceptions set out in the code apply. 
Given Starling accepted full liability for the immediate payment and offered a refund, 
its reasonable to assume that it didnt think any of the exceptions under the code 
applied. I see no reason why Starlings own assessment of its obligations under the 
code  including exceptions  shouldnt apply to the other payment as well. In any 
event, for the sake of completeness of my review, I have considered Starlings 
obligations under the code. 
Starling has argued that Mr S ignored an effective warning. The code says an 
effective warning must be understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific. Im 
not persuaded that the warning Starling says Mr S saw met all the criteria. The text of 
the warning clearly had content that was relevant to this type of scam. But as the 
investigator explained, and I agree, the warning was too broad as it didnt provide 
any context on what an intercepted email could look like, or the steps Mr S could take 
to verify that the email was genuine. Given this, I dont think the warning was 
impactful. As such, Im not persuaded it was an effective warning.    
Ive considered whether Mr S had a reasonable basis for belief that (i) the payee was 
the person he was expecting to pay, (ii) the payment was for genuine goods or 
services, and/or (iii) the person with whom he transacted was legitimate. From what 
Ive seen, Im satisfied that there was no particular reason for Mr S to find the 
payment request unusual or to doubt its authenticity. I acknowledge that hed been 
instructed to send the payment to an account held in the name of the firms account 
manager. But that in and of itself isnt sufficient for me to conclude that he didnt have 
reasonable basis for belief. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr S to have 
made the payment in the circumstances that he did.
One of the other possible exceptions that could be relevant to this case is whether 
Mr S was grossly negligent. As Ive already explained above, I dont consider his 
actions tantamount to negligence. Gross negligence is an even higher bar. Im not 
satisfied that Mr Ss actions displayed a serious disregard for an obvious risk 
involved, such that I would consider it to be grossly negligent. He simply didnt realise 
hed set up a future-dated payment. 
As Ive not seen anything that leads to me think that one or more of the exceptions 
apply in this case, it follows that under the provisions of the code Starling needs to refund the remaining payment in full. And it needs to add interest to compensate him 
for being out of pocket.
I also think that Starling could have prevented the payment from being sent in the 
first instance. Its system had already flagged an £8,400-payment as out of character 
given the normal account activity, and I can see it asked additional questions during 
the payment journey. But having reviewed the payment review questions, I dont 
think they went far enough in ascertaining whether Mr S was at risk of being 
defrauded. Had Starling contacted Mr S and asked more probing questions, 
I consider it likely the scam would have been uncovered and the loss prevented. 
Given that my finding is the loss could have been prevented in the first instance, 
I agree with the investigator that the interest element of the redress should be 
calculated from the date of transaction to the date of settlement.
In relation to the compensation that Starling has paid, as the investigator has 
explained, it relates purely to how it handled Mr Ss complaint. As complaint handling 
isnt a regulated activity, Im unable to comment on any offer of compensation in 
relation to it.
Putting things right
To put matters right for Mr S, Starling Bank Limited needs to:
refund in full the remaining disputed transaction of £8,400; and
add simple interest at 8% per annum to that sum, calculated from the date of 
transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible  it should tell 
Mr S how much its taken off).
Starling Bank Limited must put things right within 28 days of the date on which we tell it that 
Mr S accepts my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Starling 
Bank Limited to put things right for Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman