DRN-3797636
The complaint
Mr M complains (through a representative) that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading 
as MoneyBoat.co.uk) (MoneyBoat) gave him a loan he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr M took one loan from MoneyBoat for £500 on 7 November 2018. Mr M was due to make 
six monthly repayments of £152.01. Had Mr M paid the loan on time, and in line with the 
credit agreement Mr M wouldve paid a total of £912.06. Mr M has had some problems 
repaying the loan and as of October 2022 an outstanding balance appears to remain. 
Mr Ms representative said it didnt hear from MoneyBoat after it raised a complaint and so 
referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. He concluded MoneyBoat made a 
reasonable decision to lend the loan because based on the information MoneyBoat gathered 
the largest monthly repayment looked affordable for Mr M.  
Mr Ms representative didnt agree and asked for a final decision. But no further comments 
were provided. 
MoneyBoat didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoat s checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint. Having done so, Im satisfied 
MoneyBoat carried out proportionate checks which showed it that Mr M could afford the loan 
repayments, and Ive explained why below. 
MoneyBoat has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr M for details 
of his income and expenditure. Mr Ms income has been recorded as being £1,500 per 
month. Mr M also declared his monthly outgoings were £850. This left Mr M with disposable 
monthly income of £650. This was more than sufficient for MoneyBoat to believe Mr M could 
afford the monthly repayment of £152.01. The loan therefore looked affordable. 
Before this loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with a copy of the results it received. I want to 
add that although MoneyBoat carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement 
to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Therefore, its entirely possible that the information MoneyBoat received may not entirely 
reflect the information Mr M maybe able to see in his own credit report. There could be a 
number of reasons for this, such as MoneyBoat only asking for certain pieces of information. 
But what MoneyBoat cant do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the 
information it received  if necessary.  
MoneyBoat was also entitled to rely on the results it was given. So, Ive taken a look at the 
results to see whether there was anything contained within it that wouldve either prompted 
MoneyBoat to have carried out further checks or possibly have declined Mr Ms application. 
Having reviewed these results, I can see that MoneyBoat was aware of some adverse credit 
file information for example a total of seven defaults of which two had been recorded within 
the last 12 months  with the most recent recorded in January 2018 for a telecommunication 
contract. There was also some suggestion that Mr M was having problems paying one of his 
mail order accounts at the time the loan was approved. 
While it did know that Mr M had opened four accounts within the last six months  which 
could be a sign that possibly Mr M was having problems, because this is an average of 
nearly one new credit account per month. And so, this could have been a sign that he was reliant on this type of credit. But given what else MoneyBoat saw in the credit results meant 
it was just about reasonable for it to have approved the loan without any further checks. 
There was nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led MoneyBoat to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information Mr M 
had provided.
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to 
have relied on the information Mr M provided along with the income and expenditure figures 
to show he had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to 
making. So, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about the loan.
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman