DRN-2541739
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint is about one of his buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage accounts with Barclays Bank 
UK Plc.  Mr T says that after the Law of Property Act Receivers (LPARs) returned the 
property to the control of Barclays on 30 September 2020, he has heard nothing from the 
bank. Mr T says that Barclays has failed to respond to his requests to contact him to discuss 
resolution of the situation.
What happened
Mr T has a number of BTL mortgage with Barclays. This complaint relates to the mortgage 
on a property I will refer to as 2R. After the mortgage fell into arrears, LPARs were appointed 
by Barclays in April 2019. Mr T was unhappy about this, as well as action Barclays took on 
his other BTL properties and complained about this, to Barclays and to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
The property was tenanted until 30 June 2020, when the tenants left. The LPARs had 
assessed that the property was in negative equity and reported to Barclays that there were a 
number of unsold properties in the development. As a result, there was no further action the 
LPARs could take and so on 30 September 2020 the LPARs returned the property to the 
control of Barclays and wrote to Mr T to inform him of this. 
Mr T says that since then Barclays has failed to engage with him. He is unhappy that each 
month service charges and council tax are accruing, as well as outstanding mortgage 
payments, but the bank is doing nothing to help him.
Barclays position is that its unable to apply for a possession order since 30 September 
2020 due to a moratorium on lenders taking such action. Barclays has also told us that, 
because Mr T has made a number of complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service about 
these mortgages, the bank is unable to take any action pending all those complaints being 
resolved.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She explained to 
Mr T that ordinarily Barclays would have instructed its solicitors to apply for a possession 
order, but that it hadnt been able to due to the pandemic. The investigator was also satisfied 
that Barclays had attempted to contact Mr T to discuss his financial situation. The 
investigator didnt think Barclays had acted unreasonably.
Mr T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr T said that the 
property market has continued throughout the pandemic so he doesnt see why there has 
been no attempt to sell the property.  Mr T says that he had a perfect credit history, which 
has been ruined because of Barclays actions.
As the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T is unhappy that, in the seven months or so since the LPARs returned the property to 
Barclays, the bank hasnt taken any action, or to engage with him or to do anything with the 
property. I can fully appreciate that this has caused Mr T some distress. But Barclays cant 
apply for a possession order because there is currently legislation in place banning the 
enforcement of lender repossession (except in exceptional cases) until at least 31 May 2021. 
In the circumstances, although I appreciate the implications of this for Mr T, Barclays isnt 
able to take any action at present. Land Registry data suggests that the property is (as the 
LPARs told Barclays) in negative equity, and so Barclays is entitled to assess the risk 
involved in proceeding with any sale, even when it is allowed to do so.
In addition, Mr T has made several complaints about his BTL mortgage accounts to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service  which I dont criticise him for, it is his right to raise his 
concerns with us if he is unhappy with how the bank has dealt with him. But whilst there are 
outstanding complaints, Barclays has said it will put any action on hold. 
I dont think this is unreasonable in the circumstances; it would be wrong for Barclays to sell 
properties in possession which are the subject of complaints to this service, or to take any 
other pre-emptive action until our involvement in Mr Ts complaints is at an end.
Ive seen from Barclays records that it has tried to contact Mr T to discuss any proposals he 
might have for this mortgage and his other BTLs and his residential mortgage (held jointly 
with his wife). From what Mr T has told us, it seems unlikely he will be able to put his BTL 
mortgages back into credit  and this seemed to be the case in relation to this mortgage 
even before the LPARs were appointed in April 2019. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr T, but in all the circumstances of this case, I dont think Barclays 
has acted unreasonably since the property was handed back to it on 30 September 2020. I 
would urge Mr T to discuss his financial situation with Barclays. 
Mr T might find it helpful to take some advice from one of the free debt advisory services 
such as Citizens Advice, StepChange or Shelter. We can provide Mr T with contact details 
for those agencies, if hed like us to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman