DRN-4137636
The complaint
A limited company, which I will refer to as S, complains about the way Barclays Bank UK Plc 
carried out a Know Your Customer (KYC) review.
Mr D, a director of S, has brought the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
Mr D told us:
Barclayss database has been continually incorrect, and it has failed to correct its 
data  despite the fact he made repeated personal visits and telephone calls.
Barclays sent aggressive form letters threating to close Ss account unless it received 
the data it needed on time. S complied, several times, and yet Barclays still got its 
data wrong.
Getting through to Barclays KYC area on the phone took many hours over several 
occasions. Barclays admitted that it was chronically understaffed, and that the staff it 
did have were undertrained.
Barclays has offered £100 in compensation, but he believes that fair and equitable 
compensation under the relevant guidelines would be more than £5,000.
Barclays told us:
It has a regulatory responsibility to periodically review business records to ensure 
that all KYC information is correct and up to date. It is satisfied that its KYC process 
was carried out correctly in respect of Ss account, and there were no bank errors.
Mr D contacted Barclays several times to provide information. On some occasions it 
required further clarification and/or additional information. This is a part of its KYC 
process and it does not consider that the additional requests represent an error.
However, there were three calls where Ss representative had to wait for over an 
hour to get through to its KYC team. It accepts that it provided poor service, and so it 
offered S £100 in compensation.
Its customer here is S, a limited company, and not Mr D personally  and so it is not 
prepared to pay compensation for any personal distress Mr D might have suffered.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but did not uphold it. He didnt think 
Barclays had made a mistake when it requested information from S, so he didnt think it 
should have to pay compensation for the inconvenience S suffered in providing that 
information. He accepted that Ss staff had to wait too long when they called Barclays, but he 
thought the £100 Barclays had already offered was fair compensation for that 
inconvenience. 
Barclays accepted our investigators conclusions, but Mr D did not. Briefly, he said that 
Barclays offer of £100 was derisory given the delays he and S experienced  and wrongly 
suggests that his valuable time as a business owner is worth well below minimum wage. He 
also said that S pays significant monthly fees for Barclays Premier service, but the customer 
service standards it experienced were very far from a Premier, exemplary service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, there is very little I can add to what our investigator has already said. Banks 
in the UK are strictly regulated, and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means  as in this case  that a bank chooses to 
carry out a KYC review.
I do not criticise Barclays for its decision to carry out the KYC review in the first place, nor do 
I criticise it for the way it carried out that review. Ive seen the additional information requests 
Barclays made, and I think they were fair and reasonable. I dont think they imply that 
Barclays had failed to record information correctly in the first place  instead, I think they 
imply that the information Barclays had caused it to ask further questions.
However, I do agree that Barclays customer service could have been better here. There 
were several times when Mr D had to wait too long to speak to a Barclays representative, 
and I think Barclays should compensate S for that.  
Putting things right
I want to stress that the award I am making here is intended to compensate S for the 
inconvenience caused by Barclays poor service in respect of the telephone waiting times 
only. I acknowledge that having to comply with Barclays KYC process would itself have 
been inconvenient, but I dont think Barclays made an error there  so it wouldnt be fair for 
me to order Barclays to pay compensation for inconvenience S suffered as a result, or to 
refund any fees. In addition, whilst I am aware that Mr D will have personally suffered some 
inconvenience, Barclays is right to say that its customer in respect of this complaint is S. 
Where the complainant is a limited company, I have no power to make an award for any 
distress caused to its director.
Our investigator said he didnt think S had suffered significant inconvenience as a result of 
Barclays error. I know Mr D was very unhappy with that comment, but in my opinion our 
investigator was correct. It is unfortunate that Mr D had to wait so long to speak to Barclays, 
and I do think the impact was more than just minimal  so an apology alone wouldnt have 
been enough to remedy Barclays error. But having considered all the circumstances and 
applied my own judgement, I am satisfied that an award of £100 does represent fair and 
reasonable compensation. We do not usually award compensation for inconvenience at an 
hourly rate, and I dont think it would be appropriate to do so here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay S £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman