DRN-3153838
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy The Prudential Assurance Company Limited wont agree to review his 
annuity policy sold in 2005, when they have reviewed a policy sold in 2011. He also thinks 
he should receive an enhanced annuity as he and his employer made enhanced 
contributions.
What happened
Mr P purchased an annuity policy (ending *470) from Prudential in May 2005. He also had 
another policy (ending *420) sold in 2011. Neither were enhanced annuities, where a 
customers health or lifestyle factors entitle them to a higher payment based on a likely 
reduced life expectancy. 
In 2016 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) carried out a thematic review of non- 
advised annuity sales. Following this review it required Prudential to review its annuity 
policies sold without advice between July 2008 and September 2017. This was due to 
concerns that the sales process hadnt made it clear enough to customers they may have 
been better off taking the open-market option. 
In 2019 Prudential wrote to Mr P to say theyd reviewed policy *420 and found they hadnt 
been paying him enough. So Mr P received a one-off payment of £1,769 to make up the 
difference plus interest and going forward hed receive an additional £188 per year. 
Mr P wanted Prudential to review policy *470 and to explain why he wasnt entitled to an 
enhanced pension when he and his employer had made enhanced contributions. Prudential 
said his policies had been sold on a non-advised basis, and Mr P hadnt disclosed any 
health or lifestyle factors to suggest he wished to apply for an enhanced annuity. And it 
confirmed policy *470 wouldnt be reviewed as it was sold prior to the review period. 
Unhappy with this Mr P referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked 
into things but didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied policy *470 didnt fall within the 
scope of the FCAs thematic review. He explained that making enhanced contributions would 
boost the size of the pension pot with which the annuity was purchased, but lifestyle and 
health factors determine eligibility. Having reviewed the sales documentation from 2005 he 
thought Prudential had made Mr P sufficiently aware of the eligibility criteria for an enhanced 
annuity, in line with the guidance applicable at the time. 
Mr P disagreed, saying his understanding was the thematic review applied to policies sold 
from 2005 not 2008, so policy *470 was in scope. And he still felt he shouldve been entitled 
to an enhanced annuity as the increased contributions he and his employer made were 
required by Prudential rather than his own choice. 
These points didnt change the investigators mind, so the case has been passed to me to 
issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it, for the same reasons as the investigator. Let me 
explain why.
The FCAs thematic review was published in late 2016 and concerned the sale of annuity 
policies from May 2008, so Im satisfied Mr Ps policy *420 sold in 2011 fell within the scope 
of the review, whereas the sale of his policy *470 from 2005 did not. 
Mr P says Prudential required him and his employer to make enhanced contributions to his 
plan, so he should have been offered an enhanced annuity. But making additional pension 
contributions arent what determines whether a customer is eligible for an enhanced annuity.
The FCA explained the thematic review at the time as follows An annuity is a retirement 
income product that can be bought with a customers pension pot, and which pays them a 
regular income in return. A customer requires accurate information when choosing an 
annuity, because it is a complex financial product and can affect a customer, and their 
dependants, for life. This is especially so for non-advised sales, where the customer selects 
the annuity based on factual information and does not receive financial advice. Where 
customers have health and lifestyle factors which may shorten their life expectancy, they 
may be eligible for an enhanced annuity. Firms need to provide clear, fair and not misleading 
information about enhanced annuities to help the customer make an informed decision about 
which product to buy.
The value of contributions a member or their employer made would increase the size of the 
pot available to purchase the annuity. But the level of contributions paid wouldnt determine 
eligibility to an enhanced annuity, also known as an impaired life annuity, as the payments 
are higher due to the annuitants health or lifestyle being expected to shorten or impair their 
life expectancy. Determining eligibility would require the customer to disclose information 
about their health and sometimes their lifestyle. 
Ive reviewed the documentation relating to the sale of policy *470 from 2005. The policy 
arose from Mr Ps employment with a firm Ill call R. In February 2005 Prudential sent Mr P 
a retirement quotations pack for his pension scheme with R, which included a number of 
quotations for various options. The pack made clear Prudential only sells its own products, 
and while it would provide information to help Mr P make his decision, Prudential would not 
give financial advice. Mr P replied on 11 March saying he wanted the maximum tax-free 
cash he was entitled to, and a standard annuity with a ten-year guarantee and no 
dependents pension, payable monthly in arrears. He also provided the documentation (P60, 
P11D, redundancy notice, birth certificate etc) Prudential had asked for. 
Prudential wrote to Mr P on 31 March 2005 with a revised quotation pack, explaining that he 
could purchase an annuity on the open market, either before or after the tax-free cash was 
released, and provided any pension purchased was compatible with the scheme rules. 
Mr P telephoned to accept the quotation, and provided his acceptance signed by himself and 
a representative of the pension scheme trustees on 13 April 2005. Prudential sent Mr P a 
letter dated 27 April 2005 which explained that unless he exercised the right to cancel, the 
trustees of the employers scheme had instructed Prudential to pay Mr P a tax-free lump 
sum of £48,922 and an annual annuity of £6,126 commencing March 2005. As requested it 
was a level term, single life annuity, with a ten-year guarantee period. This was policy *470, 
and Ive said earlier it didnt fall within the timeframe of the thematic review. 
Mr P has since asked why he wasnt given the option of an enhanced annuity. I can see this 
wasnt offered in the quotation pack, and in response to his complaint Prudential said if Mr P had thought he was eligible for an enhanced annuity he shouldve asked for one. The 
explanatory brochure sent to Mr P at the time had a section headed What if Im in poor 
health? which explained that Prudential would consider an enhanced pension for certain 
health conditions likely to shorten a customers life (some cancers, diabetes or diseases of 
the kidneys, heart or lungs). If Mr P thought he qualified he was invited to complete the 
enclosed questionnaire, which would then be assessed. And another document which 
explained the retirement pack and the process for making a decision, also said that the 
other options form could be used if the customer wanted different quotations than had been 
provided, otherwise it could be ignored. But that the customer should phone Prudential if 
they wished to consider an enhanced annuity for people with serious medical conditions. 
Mr P didnt phone Prudential to ask about enhanced annuities at the time, and he hasnt said 
he suffers from a serious medical condition which may shorten his life expectancy. As well 
as serious illnesses, lifestyle factors such as weight and smoking also impact life 
expectancy. But considering these when assessing eligibility was only applicable from 
November 2007, with greater detail about the type of illnesses and lifestyle factors required 
to be included in questionnaires from 2013, so they didnt apply at the time Mr P set up his 
annuity. 
Its not clear why Mr P or his employer were required to make higher contributions to his 
pension, but I dont think doing so disadvantaged him. Pension contributions attract tax relief 
as well as investment returns, which would have boosted Mr Ps available pension funds 
with which to purchase the annuity. Prudential wasnt required to review the sale of policy 
*470 as part of the thematic review, and I think the information it provided to Mr P in 2005 
was clear enough to explain how to apply if he thought his health might have made him 
eligible for an enhanced annuity. 
So while I understand this will be disappointing for Mr P I dont uphold his complaint and 
make no award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman