DRN-3224910
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as D, is unhappy that Santander UK Plc renewed its
overdraft facility at a time when Santander had been made aware that D was experiencing
financial difficulty. D is also unhappy that Santander allowed company liquidators to take
money from the overdraft leading to an outstanding balance being owed to Santander.
What happened
In 2017, D supplied Santander with company accounts which demonstrated that D was
trading in an insolvent position. Despite this, Santander approved the renewal of Ds existing
£20,000 overdraft facility.
Shortly afterwards, D ceased trading and entered voluntary liquidation. D is unhappy that
Santander allowed significant monetary transfers to be made to the liquidators during a time
that D feels Santander should have been aware of the status of the company such that the
account should have been blocked.
D wasnt happy that Santander had allowed the transfers to take place, or that Santander
had approved the renewal of the overdraft facility in the first instance, given the state of the
company accounts which Santander had been provided with, so it raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Ds complaint. It noted that it had approached D and asked about the
status of the accounts, but that D had explained that a change in reporting criteria was the
reason that the accounts were showing as being insolvent but that D continued to trade
profitably. Santander felt that it had been reasonable, given the long-standing nature of its
relationship with D and the profitable state of Ds prior accounts, for it to have accepted the
explanation provided by D at that time.
Santander also noted that the transactions to the liquidator that D was unhappy about had all
occurred before Santander could reasonably have responded to being made aware that D
had ceased trading. Because of these points, Santander didnt uphold Ds complaint.
D wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so it referred its complaint to this service. One
of our investigators looked at this complaint. After a lengthy review, while they accepted that
Santander couldnt reasonably have prevented the transfers to the liquidator, they did feel
that Santander should have done more to confirm that D wasnt trading in an insolvent
position following the receipt of the2017 accounts.
Because of this, our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld in Ds favour
on that basis only, and that Santander should reimburse to D any interest and charges that
had accrued on the overdrawn balance following the overdraft facilitys renewal.
D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 November 2021 as follows:
Im aware that D feel that Santander shouldnt have renewed its overdraft facility 
following the receipt by Santander of Ds accounts which demonstrated that D was 
trading in an insolvent position.
However, its notable that D was contacted by Santander about this, and that D 
provided Santander with the following detailed explanation as to why the accounts  
which in previous years had been unproblematic  were now showing as insolvent:
Regarding the Accounts, Im not best pleased  As you can see from the 
Notes its a system issue that has raised its head this year but goes back to 
2004.
The Balance Sheet is being reported differently because of changes required 
by the licensing authorities. In past we recognised deferred income and 
deferred payments and the balance sheet reflected it. We have not included 
these deferred amounts in the latest Accounts and it has impacted 
accordingly requiring a prior year adjustment.
Having said this, its not as though £302k hasnt suddenly permeated off the 
bank balance. As you know, [D} is trading, the P&L is good, forward bookings 
are the best for some years and we are carefully managing cash flow as we 
always do (especially in Q4 of any year) and more so now because we are 
funding a new system development.  Finally we have never breached our 
overdraft  nor do I expect to.
D contend that, even having been provided with the above explanation by 
themselves, that Santander should have undertaken further checks to confirm the 
ongoing financial position of D before renewing the overdraft facility.
Conversely, Santander state that it was satisfied with the explanation provided by D  
which was a business with whom Santander held a long standing and previously 
relatively unproblematic business relationship.
The question therefore presents itself as to whether it was fair and reasonable for 
Santander to have accepted the explanation provide by D regarding the state of the 
accounts.
In this instance, I feel that it was fair and reasonable for Santander to have accepted 
this explanation and to have allowed the renewal of Ds overdraft facility to continue 
accordingly. I say this for several reasons, including the long standing nature of the 
business relationship between D and Santander, and also because the explanation 
provided by D directly addresses and explains the accounting issue and confirms that 
D as a business remained profitable and in good standing with a positive future 
outlook.
It therefore seems reasonable to me that Santander, having been presented with a 
detailed explanation by a long standing customer which addressed and covered all of 
its salient concerns, did accept the explanation provided and did allow the renewal of 
the already existing £20,000 overdraft facility to take place.It's notable that D ceased trading approximately two months after it provided this 
explanation to Santander, and Im unaware of D contacting Santander subsequent to 
providing this explanation to update Santander as to its projected ability to continue 
as an ongoing concern. Indeed, it appears that Santander only became aware that D 
had ceased trading when it received a letter from Ds liquidator advising of its 
appointment.
It seems apparent then that either D was aware at the time it gave the explanation to
Santander that the content of the explanation wasnt accurate, or that D later became 
aware that the explanation it had provided to Santander wasnt accurate but didnt 
update Santander at that time. And, ultimately, I dont feel that I can fairly or 
reasonably censure Santander for either of these scenarios.
D is also unhappy that Santander allowed a series of monetary transfers to be made 
to its liquidator at a time when it feels Santander should have frozen the account. But 
its notable that all but one of these transfers took place before the letter sent by the 
liquidators notifying Santander of its appointment had been posted. Additionally, the 
final transfer took place two days after the date on the liquidators letter, and I dont 
feel that its reasonable to expect Santander to have received and processed this 
letter in such time as to have been able to prevent this final transfer from taking 
place.
D has also expressed its dissatisfaction that Santander havent applied to be secured
creditors and are pursuing repayment of the overdrawn balance by reliance upon 
personal guarantees given in 2006 which D feels may be invalid.
Its outside the remit of this service to comment on the specific way in which 
Santander chooses to conduct its business. That would be the role of the regulator, 
which in this case is the Financial Conduct Authority. Additionally, its also outside the 
remit of this service to make a judgement as to whether a previously given personal 
guarantee remains valid. Such a judgement would be better suited to a Court of Law. 
As such, Im unable to comment further on either of these two points.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Santander have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here, and it follows from this that my provisional decision 
here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both D and Santander the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they may wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision.  
D did provide some further comments for my review. Several of these were reiterations of 
Ds position and didnt constitute any new information. I can confirm that my position on 
these matters is unchanged from when I arrived at my provisional decision, and I will not 
comment on them further.  
D did explain that it felt that I hadnt considered all the information that should have been 
available to me when arriving at my provisional decision. D acknowledged that it did assure 
Santander that the reason the accounts were suddenly showing as insolvent was because of 
a change in balance sheet reporting requirements and also that D assured Santander that it 
continued to remain viable as an ongoing concern. However, D stated that it updated its 
position with Santander shortly after providing that initial explanation, confirming that it was 
in fact in an untenable financial position, and that as such Santander had been aware of this 
when it had renewed Ds overdraft.Ive conducted a thorough search of this services records for any documents or evidence 
that would corroborate Ds position here, Ive also asked D to provide copies of any such 
corroborating documents which would confirm their version of events, as any such evidence 
may have caused me to rethink my position here.
But Ive been unable to locate any such corroborating evidence in the documents previously 
provided to this service by either D or Santander, and while D have provided some 
documents for my consideration, I dont feel that any of these documents provide a tenable 
reason for me to consider changing my provisional decision here.
I do note that Santander emailed D in response to their assurances on 4 October 2017 as 
follows:
 thank you for your comments on the Balance Sheet. I appreciate from a trading 
point of view there are no changes with you continuing to be profitable and the 
account working well. I just need to understand from your Accountant as to what is 
now included in the Balance Sheet and why, so that I can explain it to my credit 
department.
This email appears to confirm that Santander were, at that time, of the understanding that D 
continued to be viable as an ongoing concern  having accepted the assurances provided by 
D the day before  but wanted to understand the changes in Balance Sheet reporting that 
had led to Ds accounts to suddenly show to the contrary. And, as alluded to in my 
provisional decision letter, given the long-standing nature of Ds relationship with Santander, 
this doesnt seem unreasonable to me.
Ultimately, having considered Ds responses to my provisional decision, I continue to feel 
that it was fair and reasonable for Santander to have allowed the renewal of the overdraft  
which took place on 2 October 2017  to continue following the assurances that it received 
from D via email on 3 October 2017. And I havent seen any evidence to corroborate Ds 
position that it made Santander aware that these assurances werent in fact viable, and that 
it was in fact in a precarious financial position, shortly after D provided them to Santander. 
All of which means that I see no reason not to issue a final decision in line with that as 
outlined in my provisional decision whereby I do not uphold this complaint. And I can confirm 
that my final decision will be that I am not upholding this complaint accordingly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman