DRN-3127049
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his caravan insurer Ageas Insurance Limited in respect of the 
claim settlement its offered him for his stolen caravan. 
What happened
Mr S took a policy out with Ageas via a price comparison website and a broker. He thought 
he had new for old cover for the caravan. The sum insured was £27,000 which Mr S felt 
was the as new replacement cost for it.
The caravan was stolen and Ageas said it would only settle the claim based on the market 
value of the caravan, plus its accessories  £11,809. Regarding the stolen contents, Ageas 
said there was a policy limit of £1,500 and an individual item limit of £250. Regarding a 
games console, it said this was a valuable item which was excluded from cover so it would 
pay nothing for it. 
When Mr S complained to us, our investigator felt Ageas had offered settlement in line with 
the policy terms and limits. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S was unhappy. He felt that it wasnt fair for Ageas to settle based on market value where 
the policy allowed for settlement up to £27,000, whilst simultaneously saying it would pay no 
more than the policy limit for contents. He felt hed paid for a new for old policy based on 
cover for £27,000. Mr S also said the policy wording actually required Ageas, where the 
caravan was more than five years old, to pay up to 90% of its replacement value. He felt it 
should be paying more for the contents items too. 
The complaint was passed to me to consider. I felt that Ageas had acted fairly and 
reasonably regarding the settlement offered for the caravan (along with its accessories) and, 
in the main, its contents. But I thought it needed to offer a settlement for the games console. 
I also thought it needed to re-price the cover based on a lower sum insured; paying any 
difference, plus interest, to Mr S. So I issued a provisional decision to explain my findings, 
which were:  
Ageas policy will only settle claims where the caravan is beyond repair (or totally lost), by 
replacing it with a new equivalent where the caravan is less than five years old. Where the 
caravan is older, or where the sum insured selected is less than 90% of the replacement 
value, the basis for settlement is market value. The policy doesnt make any allowance for 
Ageas settling based on 90% of the replacement value. Mr Ss caravan is nine years old. So 
Ageas can offer settlement based on the caravans market value.  
The market value is, effectively, what it would cost to replace that particular caravan at the 
time of the loss. For caravans the market value is determined by reference to a trade guide 
(there is only one that deals with caravans), and the expertise of a caravan specialist. The 
expert input is important because one guide alone cant reasonably give a complete fair 
picture of prices across the market.
Our investigator checked the trade guide and it returned a value of £10,675. Ageas 
specialist loss adjuster said the value he had found was £11,050. And he then added a little 
more to this to account for variations in prices which might occur in Mr Ss area. That gave a 
total market value of £11,250. I note that Mr S had purchased the caravan in June 2019 and 
he says he paid £11,500 for it. Given that and the market value our investigator found, I think 
Ageas offer of £11,250 was fair and reasonable. 
There were a number of accessories stolen with the caravan. I see that Ageas has offered a 
total of £559 for these items. This largely meets the total value claimed for by Mr S of 
£618.99. I think the sum offered by Ageas is fair. 
The contents items are subject to a policy limit of £1,500. But the policy also restricts each 
item claimed for to a value of £250. I see the loss adjuster has offered settlement in line with 
this, and mainly within a few pounds of the price Mr S has asked for for each item. The 
exceptions are the items valued at over £250, including the games console. Restricting the 
settlement to the individual limit for each item is in line with the policy terms. So thats fair. 
But the loss adjuster has said the games console is excluded as its a valuable item. I dont 
think thats fair and reasonable. Ageas has chosen a very specific and long list of items it 
wishes to view as valuable, and games console  or anything reasonably akin to it  isnt 
included in that list. So Ageas will have to settle for the console at the policy limit of £250.
I think Mr S also has a point in respect of the cover Ageas has taken payment for. It isnt 
unusual for the value of the sum insured to play a part in how an insurer prices a policy. And 
Ageas has been providing cover for something it was never on risk for  a sum insured of 
£27,000 when it would only ever have been liable for paying less than half this sum on a 
market value basis. Therefore, it cant fairly keep any part of the premium that was charged 
to allow for a sum insured of that value. I note its own loss adjuster says the sum insured 
should have been around £12,000. I intend to require Ageas to re-price the policy based on 
a sum insured of £12,000. It will have to reimburse Mr S any overpayment he has made, 
plus interest* from 19 February 2021, this being the date Ageas realised the sum insured 
was too high.
Ageas said it accepted my findings. Mr S indicated he didnt agree with them because he felt 
it was unfair for me to find in favour of the insurer when it seemed to accept the policy had 
been mis-sold to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this is frustrating for Mr S; when his caravan was stolen he believed he 
would be entitled to the market value of a new replacement, but that was not the case. 
However, Ive looked at how Ageas set out to settle the claim and I do think it did that in line 
with the terms of the policy in place. Whether or not Ageas thinks the policy was mis-sold, it 
wasnt responsible for the sale  it just provided the cover for the policy that Mr S put in 
place via the broker. Even if the broker is seen to have failed Mr S, that determination cant 
reasonably influence any finding against Ageas. 
I note Mr S hasnt objected to what I said about the games console and reimbursement of 
part of the policy premium. I see Ageas has agreed to provide this redress.  
Overall, Im satisfied that my provisional findings are fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. As such, Ive no need to change or move away from them.Putting things right
I require Ageas to: 
Include a value of £250 for the games console within its settlement offer for contents 
items.
Re-price Mr Ss policy based on a sum insured of £12,000 and reimburse Mr S any 
overpayment hes made against the revised price. Any reimbursement is subject to 
interest applied from 21 February 2021 and until payment is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr S, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman