DRN-1246686
Complaint
Ms S complains that Bradford & Bingley plc (Bradford & Bingley) mis-sold her a monthly 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Ms S took out a mortgage with Bradford & Bingley in October 1991. She was sold a PPI 
policy at the same time in connection with this mortgage.  The PPI would have provided a 
monthly benefit for up to 24 months if Ms S was off work sick.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Ss complaint should be upheld. Ms S didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ss case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint. I appreciate Ms S will be 
disappointed by this outcome. However, I havent found sufficient reason to conclude that 
she was mis-sold PPI. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Ms S was eligible under the policy. Ms S says that as she 
was freelance she would have been excluded from being able to make a claim. However, 
Ive seen a copy of the policy document and am satisfied that Ms S was eligible under the 
policy. The policy specifically states that self-employed people are covered.
Bradford & Bingley had to make it clear to Ms S that the PPI was optional and needed her 
consent before it could be applied to Ms Ss account. Ms S says that she was unaware she 
had been sold PPI. Bradford & Bingley say that the PPI was presented as optional and was 
added because Ms S chose to take it out.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale so Ive thought about everything Ms S 
and Bradford & Bingley have told us and looked to the available documents to help me 
decide what is more likely to have happened during the sale.
Bradford & Bingley have provided us with a copy of the mortgage application form. The 
mortgage application form had a section headed Payment Protection Insurance. 
Immediately beneath this was a question asking Ms S whether she would like to take 
advantage of PPI. The box next to this question could have been answered with a Yes or 
No. I can see that a handwritten Yes has been entered into the box. There is also a tick 
next to the level of cover requested and further information entered such as the monthly 
benefit amount and what it covers.Ms S says that at the time she applied for a mortgage, she wasnt expecting to take PPI, she 
didnt discuss PPI and would have rejected it as it was of no use to her. She didnt realise 
that a box she ticked at the end of the mortgage application form was for PPI. She explains 
that she believes that it is extremely disingenuous of Bradford & Bingley to suggest that she 
must have been fully aware of PPI especially as the form, bar section 21 questions 1-3, was 
not completed in her handwriting. Ms S says that on closer inspection of the application 
from, the PPI was presented as an integral part of the mortgage application. She disagrees 
with the adjudicator when he says that Ms S made it clear she wanted PPI just because she 
ticked a box. She is also upset by the fact that Bradford & Bingley didnt tell her she had PPI 
when she was going through a very difficult period in 1997/1998. 
I note what Ms S has said. However, the evidence Ive seen shows that PPI was presented 
as optional. There was no obligation on Ms S to take PPI and the onus would have been on 
Ms S to check what she had agreed to on the mortgage application form when she signed it. 
And given that the section was headed Payment Protection Insurance, I think it should 
have been clear that Ms S was agreeing to take out PPI. The section not only showed that 
she had selected PPI but also the level of cover and benefit so I think its more likely that 
there was some discussion about PPI. 
Ms S says that had she known she had been sold PPI she would have made a claim when 
she was unable to work for periods of time in 1997 and 1998. However, by the same token 
Ive also seen a letter from Ms S to Bradford & Bingley, which I understand was written in 
1998, asking Bradford & Bingley to cancel the PPI as it had proved to be of no use to her. 
Ive seen a letter from Bradford & Bingley confirming the cancellation. I appreciate that this 
post-dates the sale by around 7 years however, if Ms S had been sold this policy without her 
knowledge or consent, it may have been reasonable to expect that Ms S may have 
mentioned this at this time as well as or instead of  saying it was of no use to her. But there 
was no mention of this here.
Having taken everything into consideration, while I appreciate what Ms S has told us, I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude that its more likely Bradford & Bingley didnt 
present the policy as optional or that it was added to her account without her consent. 
Bradford & Bingley say they didnt advise Ms S to take PPI. Ms S hasnt disputed this. While 
I consider there to have been some discussion around PPI given what has been entered on 
the PPI section of the PPI form, I havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude that Bradford 
& Bingley advised Ms S to take PPI. This means they didnt have to take steps to check that 
the PPI was suitable for Ms S. However, they still had to give Ms S clear information about 
the PPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions in the policy  so that 
she could make an informed decision about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Ms S wasnt as clear as it should have 
been but this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have meant that Ms S wouldnt have taken the policy out. I 
appreciate Ms S will disagree with this, but I have already found that its more likely Ms S 
agreed to take PPI out and against this background I dont think better information would 
have changed her mind about the policy. I will go on to explain why.
Ms S has told us she wasnt entitled to any sick pay given that she was self-employed. The 
PPI was protecting a valuable asset and would have been the only other way of ensuring the 
mortgage payments would be met if she was off work sick. And it could have done so for up 
to 24 months. I appreciate Ms S had some savings, but the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this and so Ms S could have used her savings for other essential living expenses 
while the PPI took care of the mortgage repayments.As already mentioned, Ms S says that she was freelance and understood from the outset 
that she would be excluded from being able to make a claim and did not require any 
insurance other than building and contents insurance. Ms S has explained the nature of her 
work as a freelancer and the difficulties in providing evidence sufficient to make a successful 
claim. 
However, I have looked through the policy document and Ms S doesnt appear to have been 
affected by the terms in the policy which would have meant she couldnt make a successful 
claim under the policy. I havent seen anything in the policy document which would have 
excluded Ms S from making a claim if she was off work sick. The policy provided cover for 
self-employed people. Ms S would have needed to provide evidence of her illness from a 
Doctor and I havent seen evidence to suggest that this is something she would have been 
unable to do. I can understand if Ms S had been sold unemployment cover - better 
information about this could have put her off taking the policy out because it would have 
been difficult for her to make a claim for unemployment as a self-employed person, but     Ms 
S did not have unemployment cover and so was not affected by these terms.
Although Ms S has told us about the difficulties she faced in 1997/1998, I havent seen any 
evidence which would suggest that the policy was unaffordable for Ms S at the time of the 
sale. Ms S could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially if she no 
longer wanted or needed it. And, as noted, she did cancel the policy in 1998.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Bradford & Bingley mis-sold    Ms 
S this PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint against Bradford & Bingley plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman