DRN-2924963
The complaint
Mrs B complains AIB Group (UK) Plc (AIB) didnt support her when she experienced 
financial difficulties.
What happened
Mrs B holds two credit cards with AIB. Mrs B hadnt made the required minimum payments 
to the cards and AIB tried to contact her.
When AIB didnt get a response from Mrs B it began the process to default both cards. Mrs B 
then contacted AIB to say she was expecting some money and asked for more time to clear 
the arrears on both cards.
Mrs B wasnt able to clear the arrears and AIB defaulted both cards. Mrs B contacted AIB to 
arrange a payment plan but doesnt feel AIB did enough to help her. Mrs B also feels a lot of 
her contact with AIB went unanswered.
Mrs B also says she didnt receive most of the letters AIB sent her. And, with one of the 
letters Mrs B did receive was a letter addressed to another of AIBs customers.
A payment plan was subsequently agreed, but Mrs B is unhappy this has affected her credit 
file. Mrs B also receives letters to say shes behind in her payments even though shes 
making her payments in line with the agreed payment plan.
Unhappy with what AIB had done Mrs B complained. said it had responded in a timely 
manner to Mrs B. AIB said its been sending letters to notify her shes still in arrears, not that 
shes missed payments on her plan. And AIB said the cards will show as a bad debt until 
theyre both paid off.
Unhappy with this response Mrs B brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.
The investigator felt AIB had done enough to apologise for its error when it sent Mrs B 
someone elses letter. The investigator also thought this had little impact on Mrs B.
The investigator was satisfied AIB had sent Mrs B letters to tell her it was looking to default 
her cards and was persuaded shed received some of them. The investigator thought any 
letters Mrs B hadnt received werent the fault of AIB.
The investigator also thought AIB hadnt made any mistakes in sending Mrs B arrears 
letters. And it looked like AIB had responded to Mrs B in good time.
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators outcome and asked for an ombudsman to decide her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has raised several points in her complaint to AIB. Were an informal service, so Ive 
only focused on what I believe are the most important parts of Mrs Bs complaint. I dont 
mean this as a disservice to Mrs B.
The crux of this complaint is, I think, quite simple. Mrs B doesnt feel AIB gave her enough 
time, or notice, to order her finances and avoid damage to her credit file. Most of the 
remaining issues came about after Mrs Bs credit cards had already been defaulted.
Mrs B owed a fairly significant amount of money across the two credit cards she held. Mrs B 
had generally been making her minimum payments until October 2018. One of Mrs Bs credit 
cards had a balance higher than the agreed credit limit.
Mrs B paid £3 to one of her credit cards and nothing to the other in October 2018. By not 
making the minimum payment, both credit cards were in arrears. Mrs B then made sporadic 
payments to both cards until May 2019 when she paid £1 to each.
Because Mrs B hadnt been paying the minimum payments each month the arrears on each 
credit card were extensive. The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) has issued 
guidance around defaults. This guidance says a default should be placed on an account 
after its three months in arrears and before they reach six months.
Im satisfied Mrs Bs credit cards were both more than three months in arrears.
AIB sent Mrs B a default notice for one card on 2 January 2019 and for the other card on   
28 February 2019. Both default notices said what Mrs B needed to do to avoid the default, 
which was pay the arrears owed on each card.
It doesnt appear Mrs B could clear these arrears. Mrs B spoke to AIB on 7 January 2019 
and explained she was owed a significant amount of money. AIB agreed to pause action but 
advised Mrs B shed need to clear the arrears to avoid the default.
Mrs B has said she didnt receive the default notices, but I think she received the first one. 
The first default notice was sent on 2 January 2019, to the address AIB had on file. Mrs B 
called AIB on 7 January 2019, she hadnt previously responded to other attempts at contact.
But a default notice is a serious letter, and I think Mrs B contacted AIB following receipt of 
one. The discussion was around how Mrs B might clear the arrears  exactly what AIB was 
asking Mrs B to do in the default notice. Im persuaded Mrs B received a default notice.
Mrs B paid a total of £4 to one of her cards in February, March and April 2019 and paid more 
to her other card, but still not enough to clear the arrears. AIB defaulted both Mrs Bs cards 
on 30 April 2019.
Prior to the default Mrs B was unable to clear the arrears on either card, and couldnt 
maintain payments to them. Interest was continuing to accrue on both cards. But once the 
cards were defaulted, AIB stopped applying interest and charges. 
I think this was the right thing to do. AIB stopped Mrs Bs debt getting larger and ensured 
any payments Mrs B could make would reduce the amount she owed.
And I think AIB gave Mrs B a lot of notice of its intention to default both cards, and then gave 
Mrs B more time after the first default notice was sent. I think AIB has treated Mrs B fairly 
around her cards being defaulted, even though this will adversely affect Mrs Bs credit file.Mrs B approached AIB in early June 2019, after both cards had been defaulted, and offered 
£150 a month towards each credit card. AIB didnt immediately respond, but it agreed to the 
plan and Mrs B began to pay £150 from late June 2019.
Its unfortunate AIB took some time to respond to Mrs Bs offer, but this didnt change AIBs 
decision to default the two cards. AIB had already defaulted both cards, and I dont think the 
offer of £150 a month would have avoided a default even if it had been made earlier.
Mrs B was in significant arrears on both cards and accruing close to £200 in interest across 
the two cards each month. I dont think the £150 a month offer would reduce the debt quickly 
enough, so I dont think AIB would have accepted the offer and stopped the default process.
This means I dont think the time it took AIB to respond to Mrs Bs payment offer made any 
material difference to the defaults. I dont think the payment plan is affecting Mrs Bs credit 
file, the default is. And because of this I dont think AIB needs to compensate Mrs B for the 
time it took to respond to her.
Mrs B also asked AIB to reduce the monthly payment to her cards, lower the interest rate, 
stop charges and refund charges it had applied. Mrs B also asked AIB to re-age her account. 
These requests were made after AIB had defaulted both cards.
AIB has agreed to a lower repayment amount. AIB has also permanently suspended interest 
on both credit cards. The charges and interest AIB previously applied appear to be in line 
with the terms and conditions of the cards, so I dont think it needs to refund anything.
And AIB cant re-age Mrs Bs credit cards, theyve both been defaulted.
Mrs B is also unhappy AIB have continued to send arrears letters to her every month. AIB 
says its sending Mrs B arrears notices every other month, and these arent demands for 
payments. AIBs also confirmed the £150 per month is an agreed plan.
I think AIB has done enough to answer this point.
Theres no doubt Mrs B received a letter addressed to someone else in an envelope 
containing a letter for her. This letter contained personal information for the other consumer.
AIB has admitted its made an error and apologised to Mrs B. AIB also arranged for a data 
protection officer to speak to Mrs B, but it doesnt appear they were able to find a convenient 
time to speak.
Mrs B has already spoken to the ICO about what happened, and I think this is the best place 
to deal with Mrs Bs concerns. The ICO deals with data breaches and can take action 
against business if there are serious breaches.
Ive considered the impact receiving the letter had on Mrs B, and I dont believe there was 
much impact. The person most impacted by this would have been the person the letter was 
addressed to. I think AIB has done enough to answer this point.
Ive also considered Mrs Bs complaint around not receiving letters from AIB. AIB has sent 
copies of the letters it sent, they all have the correct address for Mrs B. And I note shes now 
receiving the arrears letters AIB is sending out.I have no doubt Mrs B didnt receive some letters, but I dont think this is AIBs fault. All the 
letters Ive seen have the correct address on and Im persuaded they were sent to Mrs B. 
Again, I dont feel this has had a material effect on Mrs B.
Mrs B was able to bring her complaints to this service, even though she didnt receive some 
final responses. And Mrs B knew AIB was intending to default her credit cards soon after the 
first default notice went out because she spoke to AIB soon after the notice was sent.
I believe AIB gave Mrs B enough notice, and time, to order her finances and make the 
required payments to her credit cards. When Mrs B couldnt do this, AIB permanently 
suspended the interest on her cards as well as defaulting both cards.
Because of this, I dont believe AIB needs to do anything else to resolve Mrs Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman