DRN-3592212
The complaint
Mr F says Vanquis Bank Limited closed his account for an invalid reason. He then couldnt 
make his repayments using the app and it unfairly reported his arrears to the credit reference 
agency(ies). 
What happened
Vanquis wanted to do additional security checks on Mr Fs account and so put a block on his 
account. It asked him to send proof of his address, employment and identity by post. Mr F 
did not want to do this so it agreed he could send two of them by email. It gave Mr F 60 days 
to comply and provided the address he should use for his proof of address. Vanquis then 
closed Mr Fs account saying he had sent the information in too late. As this meant he lost 
access to its app he could not pay in the way he wanted to and so missed payments. This 
affected his credit file. He says he did not want to pay by phone as he deems this to be 
unsafe. 
Mr F raised three separate complaints with Vanquis. It paid Mr F £10 towards his cost of 
postage for the proof of address, and later paid him £35 after it had told him on a call that it 
had received his proof of address when in fact it hadnt. But overall it said the correct 
process was followed to close his account and the adverse data accurately reflects his 
account management.  
Mr F wants Vanquis to reopen his account and to remove all adverse information from his 
account history and credit file  had he not lost access to the app he would have paid. He 
wants it to settle his outstanding balance to cover the cost of postage and his time; to make 
this postal address clearer on all communications. He wants compensation for loss of 
earnings as the transaction it stopped was for a domain and without it he could not start his 
business and for the distress this whole incident has caused him as a previously perfect 
customer.
Our investigator upheld Mr Fs complaint in part. She said Vanquis had now offered an 
additional £100 to compensate Mr F for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
account closure and it was willing to re-open the account. This was because Vanquis had 
previously incorrectly told Mr F it didnt receive his documents on time, but it has now 
confirmed it did. So it agrees its decision to close Mr Fs account was not justified. Our 
investigator felt this was a reasonable resolution overall. She also explained the account 
terms allow the bank to block a transaction and the card for security reasons. However, she 
did not agree Vanquis was wrong to report Mr Fs missed payments onto his credit file. Mr F 
may have been unable to use his preferred payment method, but other options were listed 
on his statement.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr F asked for an ombudsmans review. He said if there was 
a temporary suspension in an account it is unfair account fees and charges can still be 
applied in that time. And the account is not as it was when blocked as the balance is higher, 
and his credit limit has been reduced. He thinks its reasonable not to want to pay by phone 
as he deems it unsafe having been a victim of fraud this way in the past. The compensation 
offered is not enough given the damage caused to his credit file and the reduced limit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having do so I am upholding Mr Fs complaint in part. I will explain why but first I want to 
make clear our role. As an independent and impartial organisation we dont act on behalf of 
either consumer or banks - theres no benefit for us to find in favour of one party over the 
other. If Mr F is unhappy with my decision he might be able to progress his dispute through 
the courts but that would be an entirely separate process and not something we would be 
involved in. We are an alternative to the courts  an informal dispute resolution service. 
The initial block and request for more information
Vanquis was entitled to block the transaction and account under the terms and conditions  
Mr F agreed to. It tried to accommodate his request to send the information required by 
email, but one piece needed to be posted. It gave Mr F the address to use. I note Mr F used 
a different address, and also invoiced Vanquis for his time to comply with its request. I dont 
find this to be reasonable  and wouldnt expect Vanquis to cover his costs as set out at 
£125. Where Vanquis did go wrong however is that it gave inaccurate information as to 
whether it had received Mr Fs documents or not. To the extent that it then closed his 
account when he had in fact complied with its request in the 60 days allowed. However, it 
has now recognised this error, apologised and offered £100 compensation, as well saying it 
will re-open the account if Mr F wishes. I find this to be a fair and proportionate response.
The missed payments and reporting to the credit reference agency(ies)
I dont agree with Mr Fs point that if an account is on hold no fees or charges should be 
applied. There is no clause in the terms that makes this provision. He agreed to how interest 
and charges are applied to his account when he opened the account, and the balance is 
money he owes as he had had the benefit of the credit. I understand Mr F did not want to 
pay by phone, but he had other options such as cash, cheque or postal order in person at 
his bank or his local post office or by post for the latter two methods. It follows therefore that 
whilst I acknowledge it is now accepted Mr Fs account was closed in error, he should still 
have met his contractual obligation to make the minimum payment. When we consider a 
banks error we also look at what a customer could have done to mitigate any impact. And in 
this case that means I think Mr F should have kept his account up-to-date using one of the 
other payment methods.  
More recently Mr F complained that his credit limit had been reduced but based on my 
findings above, and the terms of the account that allow Vanquis to vary the limit, I will not be 
instructing it to re-instate Mr Fs former limit.
In summary, I find Vanquis did act in error when it closed Mr Fs account, but it has offered a 
suitable payment to compensate for this. I do not agree this caused the damage to Mr Fs 
credit history, rather that was his decision not to make repayments. 
Putting things right
Vanquis must now pay Mr F £100 compensation. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Fs complaint in part. Vanquis Bank Limited must put things right as set 
out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman