DRN-1199406
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy with their mortgage in 2001. The policy covered Mr P if 
he became unemployed. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps case. 
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ps signed mortgage application form indicates they agreed to take out cover for 
Mr P only for unemployment and that they wanted a monthly benefit of £400. Mr P signed 
separately to that effect.
Overall, I think Nationwide made Mr and Mrs P aware that they had a choice about buying 
the PPI, and that they chose to take it knowing that was the case. 
I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P, so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for them, or Mr P in particular as the person insured. But it did have to make sure 
Mr and Mrs P got the information they needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like better information would have put them off the policy anyway. I say that 
because, for example, Mr P was eligible for the cover and wasnt significantly affected by 
any of the main exclusions to, or limits on, the policy. 
Mr P was entitled to full pay for six months and half pay for a further six months if he was off 
sick but the PPI covered unemployment and not disability  so I dont think thats of major 
relevance here. The PPI paid out for up to 12 months per claim and would have allowed 
Mr and Mrs P to retain their significant savings or use them towards covering their other 
living expenses if Mr P was out of work. Given Mr and Mrs P had arranged borrowing secured against their home, I think theyd have 
valued the extra protection the PPI provided if something went wrong. 
Whats more, Ive no reason to think the monthly premium was unaffordable for Mr and 
Mrs P. And the PPI was flexible in that they could have cancelled it any time, and at no extra 
cost, if they no longer wanted it. 
Taking everything into account, Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs P. But Nationwide will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs P, if it hasnt already, because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs P about that. Because Nationwide 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwides basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think 
that offers fair in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
Nationwide has to pay back to Mr and Mrs P any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Nationwide should also pay 
back to Mr and Mrs P any extra interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should pay back to Mr and Mrs P the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide should 
also pay Mr and Mrs P 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs P can claim back the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs P any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman