DRN-3465450
The complaint
Mr T complains that Klarna Bank AB (publ) unfairly declined a mobile phone upgrade. 
What happened
In July 2021 Mr T attempted to upgrade his mobile phone. But the upgrade was declined by 
Klarna, despite Mr T making multiple attempts. 
Mr T asked Klarna to explain why his upgrade was declined and it told him the details used 
in his billing and shipping addresses didnt match. Klarna also said Mr Ts application details 
didnt match information provided by the credit reference agencies. 
Mr T complained and explained that hed previously used Klarna without issue and that his 
details hadnt changed. But Klarna didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint so he referred it to this 
service. An investigator looked at Mr Ts case and evidence provided by Klarna. The 
investigator thought Klarna had dealt with Mr Ts complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take 
further action. Mr T asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ts personal details havent changed since he successfully used Klarna in 
the past. And I understand Mr T wants to understand the specific reasons behind Klarnas 
decision not to approve his phone upgrade. Klarnas confirmed there were two issues at 
play. 
Klarnas explains that the format between Mr Ts billing and shipping address wasnt the 
same. The upgrade process is automated and the difference between the two address 
formats was one of the reasons it was declined. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ts call logs with Klarna and can see an issue with his postcode came up. 
Mr T told Klarna that the postcode changes depending on what service is required. 
Klarna also told Mr T the upgrade details didnt match credit file data. I appreciate Mr Ts 
personal details and information havent changed for several years. But Klarna has 
confirmed the reason his application was declined was due to a mismatch between the 
information provided and data on his credit file. That means, Klarna was unable to verify the 
application details, including Mr Ts address, with the information available with the credit 
reference agency it used. 
I understand Mr T wants a more comprehensive answer and the specific reasons his 
application was declined. But Klarnas criteria is commercially sensitive and Im satisfied its 
explained what happened. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but as Im satisfied Klarna dealt with his complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman