DRN-4227671
The complaint
Mr R complains Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money he lost after he fell victim 
to a cryptocurrency scam. 
What happened
In early 2022, Mr R saw an advert online for a cryptocurrency investing platform with a 
dedicated account manager. 
Mr R reached out to the company, who we now know were operating as a scam, and they 
were able to answer all of his questions about the cryptocurrency market and show him 
profits made by other investors. Mr R was also shown his own trading profile which looked 
genuine and professional. 
The majority of the conversations between Mr R and the scammers took place over the 
telephone, so it is difficult to now know exactly what was discussed about the supposed 
investments that were taking place. However, it appears that Mr R was told he could expect 
3-5% return on each trade he completed, with the aim of initially completing two a day.  
In order to facilitate his investments, Mr R was told to set up an account with a genuine 
cryptocurrency wallet which he could use to purchase cryptocurrency. Mr R would then 
transfer his newly purchased cryptocurrency on to what he thought was his genuine trading 
account, but was actually the scammers account. In order to facilitate the transfers from his 
bank account to the cryptocurrency wallet, Mr R opened an account with Monzo which the 
scammers told him was a cryptocurrency-friendly bank.  
In total, between April and July 2022, Mr R made the following payments from his Monzo 
account:
Date Payment type Amount
30 April 2022 Faster payment £1.00
30 April 2022 Faster payment £3,650
3 May 2022 Faster payment £100
11 July 2022 Faster payment £10,000
12 July 2022 Faster payment £10,000
14 July 2022 Faster payment £10,000
15 July 2022 Faster payment £10,000
16 July 2022 Faster payment £10,000
19 July 2022 Faster payment £10,000
20 July 2022 Faster payment £10,000
21 July 2022 Faster payment £10,000
22 July 2022 Faster payment £2,000
25 July 2022 Faster payment £10,000
26 July 2022 Faster payment £10,000
28 July 2022 Faster payment £10,000
29 July 2022 Faster payment £10,000
Total £125,751
In late July 2022, Mr R tried to withdraw his funds and was unable to. At this point, he 
realised hed likely been the victim of a scam and so he reported what had happened to him 
to Monzo, via a professional representative. 
Monzo looked into what had happened to Mr R but it didnt think it should be held liable for 
his loss. It said the payments made by Mr R were not covered by the CRM Code and by the 
time Mr R was making higher value payments his the account, the payee was well 
established. Because of this, Monzo said none of the payments stood out as warranting 
intervention. Monzo also said Mr R had failed to complete any checks on the company he 
thought he was paying. And, that he had been presented with scam warnings at the time he 
was making the initial payments but he had proceeded regardless. 
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mr R brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint in part. He 
recommended that Monzo refund 50% of Mr Rs loss from the first £10,000 payment 
onwards, alongside 8% simple interest on all of the payments apart from the last. Our 
Investigator thought Mr R should bear responsibility for the remainder of his loss. 
Mr R agreed with our Investigators findings but Monzo did not. It reiterated what it had said 
in its initial submissions and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. 
As an agreement has not been reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the one reached by our investigator, for 
largely the same reasons. Ill explain why in more detail below:
The starting position in cases like this is that Mr R is presumed liable for the payments that 
left his account in the first instance. This is because, as per the Payment Service 
Regulations, he authorised them. However, that isnt the end of the story and Monzo has 
responsibilities beyond simply executing payment instructions it receives from its customers. 
Does Monzo bear any responsibility for Mr Rs loss? 
Its well-established (through industry regulation, best practice standards, and this services 
approach to scam complaints) that Monzo ought to have had systems and processes in 
place for identifying payments at risk of fraud. That includes monitoring accounts for 
suspicious and unusual activity. This services approach to cryptocurrency scams has also 
been well-established for some time now, and Monzo ought to be aware of this. 
Cryptocurrency scams have been growing in prevalence for several years, with the FCA 
specifically providing commentary on them as early as June 2018, including publications on 
its website and a Dear CEO letter. Im therefore satisfied that Monzo ought to have been aware of, and on the lookout for, cryptocurrency scams at the time Mr R fell victim to this 
particular scam and this includes instances where a customer make payments which firstly 
go to a cryptocurrency wallet in their own name. That the payments went to Mr Rs own 
cryptocurrency wallet initially doesnt remove Monzos obligations to protect him from fraud 
and financial harm. And Im satisfied that the loss to him, in sending the money to a 
cryptocurrency wallet before moving it on to a fraudster, was both reasonably foreseeable 
and preventable in this particular case. 
The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code doesnt apply to Mr Rs circumstances 
because of the specific provisions of the Code. However, those provisions dont remove 
Monzos account monitoring and fraud prevention responsibilities. And so, Im persuaded 
that Monzo might be considered to bear responsibility for Mr Rs loss, if it is evidenced it 
didnt act as it ought to have done when the payments were being made. And Im satisfied 
that by the first transfer of £10,000, the activity on Mr Rs account was suspicious enough to 
have warranted intervention by Monzo.  
I appreciate that by this point, Mr R was paying an established payee. However, this 
payment is of a particularly high value compared to the usual spending on Mr Rs account. It 
is nearly three times as high as any previous payments made. And so, Im satisfied that the 
payments made as part of the scam started to become unusual at this point. They had 
started to significantly increase in value. And because of this, I think Monzo shouldve 
contacted Mr R about this payment to discuss it with him before it agreed to process it on his 
behalf. I appreciate that Monzo had previously presented Mr R with a pop-up scam warning, 
but given the activity taking place on the account, I dont think this was good enough.   
I am satisfied that direct intervention from Monzo at this point would have made a difference 
here. Ive taken on board that Mr R had been told by the scammers that the bank would try 
and prevent payments going to a cryptocurrency wallet, and that he had been told not to tell 
the bank he was making payments for the purposes of a cryptocurrency investment. 
Because of this, Im not persuaded that Mr R wouldve been particularly forthcoming about 
the circumstances that were leading him to make these payments. However, its difficult to 
ascertain how Mr R could have mislead Monzo as to the purpose of this payment had he 
been questioned, it would have been clear at the time what it was being used for. And had 
Mr R then denied this, this would have been a significant red flag. Im also not persuaded 
that Mr R wouldve been able to explain in any detail why he was making such payments 
which at this point amounted to nearly a third of his yearly annual salary. And so Im satisfied 
Monzo ought to have been concerned, given that there were some of the hallmarks of a 
scam present. 
Monzo ought then to have highlighted the scam risk to Mr R and attempted to dissuade him 
from proceeding, offering strong warnings and explaining the features of such scams in 
detail. For example, Monzo couldve told Mr R about the common features of cryptocurrency 
scams - explaining how they are often supposedly endorsed by well-known celebrities and 
offer very high return rates. Specifically, Monzo could also have told Mr R that if someone 
was supposedly trading on his behalf, this was more than likely a scam.  
Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mr R wouldnt have listened to the bank and so Im 
satisfied that from this point onwards Monzo couldve prevented Mr R from making any 
further payments. And so, Im satisfied Monzo bears responsibility for Mr Rs losses from the 
first £10,000 payment onwards. 
Should Mr R also bear some responsibility for his loss? 
Ive then thought about whether Mr R should also bear some responsibility for his loss. Our 
Investigator felt Mr R ought to have been concerned about what he was being told right from the outset of the scam, especially given the proposed returns he had been promised. And 
having reviewed all of the evidence available to me, I agree. 
Mr R doesnt appear to have carried out any independent checks on the scammer or the firm 
the scammer claimed to work for before agreeing to transfer hundreds of thousands of 
pounds. There were no steps taken to verify the person Mr R was speaking with or the firms 
legitimacy. There also doesnt appear to have been an exchanging of terms and conditions, 
or a contract/agreement between Mr R and the investment firm either. I also cant ignore that 
as early as May 2022, they were articles online highlighting that the company Mr R was 
dealing with was likely operating a scam. 
I also find the rate of return Mr R was promised too good to be true from the outset. Mr R 
had been told that he could expect a 3-5% return on all of his trades. At one point, Mr R was 
told hed received a 60% return despite he himself pointing out that the market appeared to 
have fallen. I dont find that can be fairly and reasonably described as realistic or believable. 
And Im satisfied that when presented with such returns, and after being pressured to invest 
more and more and lie to his bank, Mr R should have been suspicious too. But he continued 
to make the payments when he should have been more cautious. 
I understand that Mr R had previously invested a small amount and had been able to 
withdraw a small amount too. But I dont find that this outweighs the elements Ive already 
described. Im satisfied Mr R ought to have been concerned and been more cautious from 
the outset. With this in mind, I find the 50% reduction in award recommended by the 
Investigator ought to be applied from the first £10,000 payment and be applicable to all of 
the remaining payments that followed. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr R, Monzo should:  
refund Mr R 50% of each payment, from the fourth payment onwards
pay 8% simple interest on all of the above payments, apart from the last two, which 
were facilitated from a family fund available to Mr R, from the date the payments left 
the account to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Emly Hanley Hayes
Ombudsman