DRN-3227762
The complaint
Mr H has complained about his motor insurer Zenith Insurance plc because it declined his 
claim made when he was involved in a serious road traffic accident, and it then also 
cancelled his policy.
What happened
Mr H was involved in an accident in June 2019. He made a claim to Zenith and it began 
investigating it. But the police then contacted Zenith and advised that Mr Hs car had been 
modified. The police said that, amongst other modifications, the car had been fitted with a 
turbo boost control unit. Zenith was concerned that the car had been heavily modified  it 
noted that it wouldnt have offered a policy if it had been told about the turbo boost controller 
(which it hadnt been). So on 31 July 2019 it wrote to Mr H and asked him to explain why he 
hadnt told it about the modifications. It said if he didnt reply it would cancel his policy.
Mr H replied, the policy continued and Zenith then asked Mr H for more detail. It said his 
claim would be on hold until it received that information. Zenith wanted:
Photos of the car taken by Mr H and the police
Purchase receipt for the car.
A copy of the V5 for the car
Import details
Proof of a dispute Mr H had said hed raised in respect of a social media provider. 
A copy of Mr Hs drivers licence.
In September 2019 Mr H sent Zenith a copy of his drivers licence, the export certificate for 
the car and the V5 which showed he had been the registered keeper of the car since 2007.  
Zenith noted that Mr H hadnt sent it the photos it had asked for or given it details about a 
dispute hed raised with a third-party about a social media account which appeared to belong 
to Mr H but which Mr H said was not his. Zenith had noted details on the social media 
account which seemed to show Mr H showing off modifications hed carried out (though not 
in respect of the turbo boost controller). On 10 September Zenith told Mr H it was going to 
cancel his policy, as it was permitted to do by the general terms. The policy was then 
cancelled on 19 September 2019.  
Mr H complained to Zenith and us about the cancellation. Zenith said it had been entitled to 
cancel his policy as he hadnt co-operated with it. During the complaint to us, a number of 
other issues arose and separate complaints were set up to deal with those other issues. Our 
investigator explained that under this complaint reference we would only consider the 
cancellation. But Zenith also told us that the fact the car was a non-EU import would have 
been another bar to it offering cover from the outset, if it had been given this information.
Our investigator felt Zenith had been clear about what it had needed to verify Mr Hs claim, 
and that because it didnt get that, it then cancelled the cover as the policy allows it to do. 
But she felt it should have been clearer with him about dates it needed the information by, so 
she said it should pay him £75 compensation. 
Mr H wasnt happy with what our investigator said and asked for an ombudsmans 
consideration. His complaint was passed to me. 
I felt Zenith had acted unfairly and unreasonably, so I issued a provisional decision 
explaining I intended to uphold Mr Hs complaint. My provisional findings were:
avoidance/misrepresentation or cancellation
Here Zeniths main concern has always been that it wasnt given key information when Mr H 
arranged the policy which, if that information had been provided, would have affected its 
decision to offer cover in the first place. In general terms this would be referred to as a 
misrepresentation by the policyholder. And in certain circumstances a misrepresentation 
would allow an insurer to avoid a policy (treat it as though it never existed). Zenith says it 
didnt do that here because Mr H didnt give it the information it had needed to decide 
whether or not a misrepresentation had occurred. And because he didnt give it that 
information, it then cancelled the cover as its allowed to do under the policy terms. 
Ill look at the cancellation itself separately below. But I need to be clear at this point  
whatever my view is on that, I wont be allowing Zenith a chance now to review or revisit its 
position on avoidance, misrepresentation and its liability in terms of the policy as a whole.
In my view, Zenith knew there was an issue that might give it cause to say the policy should 
never have been put in place  but knowing that, it then used the terms of the policy to exact 
a cancellation. And Zenith didnt reserve any rights to later revert to a position of 
misrepresentation and avoidance, if the cancellation was found to be unfair in anyway. In 
relying on the policy terms in this way, Zenith affirmed the cover which was in place. That 
means it moved past the point of fairly and reasonably being able to seek to avoid liability for 
the policy on grounds of misrepresentation. The only issue I now need to decide is whether 
Zenith acted fairly and reasonably in cancelling the policy. And, if it didnt, what it needs to 
do to put things right.
cancellation
When Zenith first asked Mr H about the car having been modified in July 2019, it did tell him 
that if he didnt answer its questions, it might cancel his policy. Mr H did answer those 
questions and Zenith enquiries then moved on. 
When Zenith wrote to Mr H several times in August it asked for different information to be 
provided to that it had asked for in July. The letters said that until this information was 
provided the claim would be on hold. The letters gave no warning that if information wasnt 
provided the policy might be cancelled. And then, when Zenith told the broker to cancel the 
policy and notification in this respect was given to Mr H, there was no detail within that letter 
which said specifically as to why and for what reasons now, the policy was being cancelled. 
Nor did the notification letter say that if Mr H provided the requested information, the 
cancellation wouldnt go ahead. This is what I would expect in any cancellation notification.  
So I dont think Zenith was clear with Mr H about what would happen if he didnt provide the 
information it wanted and, therefore, didnt give him a reasonable chance to prevent the 
cancellation from occurring.Furthermore, whilst most insurance policies give the insurer the ability to cancel the cover 
with notice, this service expects insurers to use the entitlement fairly and reasonably. What 
that means in practice will differ dependent upon the circumstances of each case. But here 
Ive looked at what information had been requested, for what purpose and what remained 
outstanding. In short, Zenith said it needed all the information asked for to validate Mr Hs 
claim. This was because it had concerns that his car had been modified and Mr H hadnt told 
it about this. Before the policy was cancelled on 19 September, Mr H had given Zenith 
everything asked for with exception of the purchase receipt, photos and the social media 
dispute details. 
Mr H didnt provide the purchase receipt. He didnt say why and Zenith didnt ask. I know 
though that it took Mr H a while to find the V5, so I can only reasonably assume that he 
doesnt have the purchase information anymore. On a car that he has been the registered 
keeper of for twelve years, that wouldnt seem unreasonable to me. If Zenith had wanted to 
make enquiries with the car dealership, which was the first and only other UK registered 
keeper before Mr H, it could have done so. But it didnt. I dont think Mr Hs failure to provide 
the purchase details was unreasonable or prevented Zenith from completing its various 
considerations. 
Zenith wanted to see photos of the car from Mr H and the police. The police had Mr Hs car, 
and the police wouldnt give Zenith any photos. Mr H says his phone, which held any photos 
he had of the car, was also in the car. So he couldnt provide photos from him or the police. 
But, in any event I really dont see what worth any photos would have added to Zeniths 
considerations. The photos would arguably only show the modifications to the vehicle which 
the police had reported to Zenith. The polices report on the modifications, I think, was proof 
enough of them. 
The social media dispute stemmed from Zenith having found an account which appeared to 
belong to Mr H. Zenith thought this account showed Mr H had modified the car by fitting an 
intercooler. As Mr H said the account wasnt his, Zenith wanted to see proof that he was 
being honest about this and had raised a dispute about the account with the provider. 
Perhaps if the details Zenith had found on this account had been relevant to its policy 
queries, then I might have had some sympathy with it insisting this detail was provided to it, 
and then cancelling the policy when it wasnt. But Zenith says the account shows Mr H had 
fitted the car with an intercooler. Zenith has shown us that of the list of modifications the 
police said the car had been subjected to, which included the intercooler, the only 
modification which would have prevented Zenith from offering cover for the car, was the 
turbo boost controller. So the social media information wasnt key to Zeniths enquiries. 
Overall, I dont think Zenith acted fairly and reasonably when it cancelled Mr Hs policy. I say 
that as in the first instance it, in my view, wasnt clear enough with him about providing 
information and the time frame in which he had to do so and then what would happen if he 
didnt. And also the information that Zenith wanted and which was outstanding from Mr H, at 
the point the policy was cancelled, wasnt, in my view, material to its enquiries such that the 
failure by Mr H to provide this information prevented it from reasonably completing those 
enquiries. As a consequence I find that the policy needs to be reinstated, with the accident 
claim progressed. As I understand it liability for the crash has been accepted by the other 
driver, so I think the claim and recovery of any costs should proceed smoothly, this should 
commence without delay.
compensation
I can see that Zeniths enquiries were frustrating for Mr H. But I think it was reasonable for it 
to want to look into the car being modified. Although I think it executed those enquiries 
poorly, which culminated in it unfairly and unreasonably cancelling Mr Hs policy. I accept that this was frustrating for Mr H. But I also understand that the police chose to keep his car 
for an extended period whilst they completed their own enquiries, and that this wasnt a car 
Mr H used every day. For the frustration Im satisfied that Zeniths unfair and unreasonable 
actions caused Mr H, I think £250 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. 
Mr H said he was happy with my findings. Zenith said it disagreed with them. It said that as it 
hadnt taken any decision as to liability, there was nothing to stop it voiding the policy in the 
future and this had been a complex issue which it had wanted to investigate thoroughly 
before deciding whether or not to avoid. Zenith said the social media issue was relevant as 
if, or not, the account had been Mr Hs, it would have shown whether or not he knew about 
the car being modified. In that respect, the purchase receipts might have done so too, and 
Mr H never said he couldnt provide them. It said it had kept the claim on hold as its decision 
on it was pending. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zenith didnt decide its position on liability for the policy as a whole. But liability for cover can 
be decided by what an insurer does, not just by what it says. When a policy is avoided it is to 
treat it as though it has never existed. But when an insurer takes action which relies on the 
terms of the policy in place, it is affirming that cover. Because it is using the policy to do 
something. An insurer can do that whilst reserving its rights to later consider avoidance. But 
it has to specifically state it is doing that  this isnt something that can be assumed or 
implied. Here Zenith used the policys terms to cancel it. And Zenith didnt reserve its rights 
in respect of later considering any issue of misrepresentation such that it might be 
reasonable for it to avoid the cover. So Zeniths own actions took this issue past the point 
where any misrepresentation and avoidance can reasonably be considered.
But prior to the cancellation Zenith was considering the misrepresentation issue. And Id 
always expect an insurer to consider such issues thoroughly and carefully. But an insurer 
has to do this fairly and reasonably too. And, here, I think Zenith was seeking to chase down 
evidence which wasnt reasonably relevant or necessary to conclude its enquiries. 
The social media account, at best, showed Mr H might have known about the intercooler 
modification. But Zenith knows it can only act in respect of avoiding a policy where it would 
never have offered cover if it had known about the issue misrepresented to it. And, 
according to Zeniths cover criteria, a modified intercooler would never have prevented 
Zenith from offering a policy to Mr H. 
I accept that sales documents do sometimes include details of modifications. But, having 
asked for them and not received them, Zenith could, I think, have taken a view about the 
likelihood of these documents existing after all of this time. And I think it should also have 
considered the fact the export details, which Mr H had provided to it, didnt detail any 
modifications. So its far from clear that the UK seller would have been aware of any. 
So I think Zenith could have assessed the evidence it was provided with and the likely 
impact and real relevance of anything that was missing, such it could have come to a 
conclusion on policy liability. But it chose instead to note Mr H hadnt provided everything 
and cancelled his policy as the terms, on the face of it, allow it to do. As I explained 
provisionally, in all of the circumstances here, I think that was unfair and unreasonable of it.Putting things right
I require Zenith to: 
reinstate Mr Hs policy, removing the record of the cancellation from its own and any 
industry database.
settle the accident claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
seeking recovery from the other driver/other drivers insurer (as Im aware liability has 
been accepted).
pay Mr H £250 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Zenith Insurance plc to provide the redress set out above at 
putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman