DRN-3929993
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that esure Insurance Limited (esure) unfairly declined their claim for 
items destroyed in a fire at their property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim on their contents insurance policy following a fire in their garden. 
The fire destroyed their shed and all of the contents, including: car roof bars; car jack; three 
trolley car jacks; spark plug wrench and axle stands. 
Esure declined to pay for these items on the basis that they were vehicle accessories. Esure 
explained that while accessories isnt defined in the policy terms, the items could only be 
used in relation to a motor vehicle, so they are therefore considered to be vehicle 
accessories. In esures view the items have only one use and that is alongside a motor 
vehicle. 
Mr and Mrs S accepted that the roof bars are an accessory as they can be fitted to the car, 
and the car jack could be an accessory as it was supplied with and carried within the vehicle. 
However, Mr S explained that as the remaining items (the disputed items) dont form part of 
the vehicle and are not designed to be carried or fitted to the vehicle, they should be covered 
by policy. 
Mr and Mrs S referred a complaint to this service. Their complaint was considered by one of 
our investigators who concluded that it should be upheld. In her view, the disputed items 
didnt add any value to the vehicle and were not integral to the functioning of the vehicle, so 
couldnt reasonably be considered parts and accessories. 
Mr and Mrs S agreed with our investigator, but esure did not. It repeated its view that the 
items were for use with a motor vehicle and have no other use without a motor vehicle, so 
are not covered under the policy. 
As esure didnt agree with our investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision to be made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S policy provides cover for the repair or replacement of their contents in their 
outbuildings which are lost or damaged by fire. However, under the heading: General 
exclusions which apply to this policy, Other exclusions the policy terms exclude from cover:
Motor Vehicles, caravans, trailers, boats, canoes, personal watercraft, surfboards, 
sailboards, hovercraft, aircraft, gliders and any parts and accessories which are designed to 
be used with any of these
Esures argument is that the disputed items are motor vehicle parts or accessories as they 
have no use other than in relation to a motor vehicle. However, I disagree. 
As our investigator explained, parts and accessories, when given their plain meaning, refer 
to something that forms part of the vehicle, or enhances the vehicle in some way. The 
Oxford English Dictionary defines accessory as: a thing which can be added to something 
else in order to make it more useful, versatile, or attractive. 
Its therefore not relevant whether the disputed items can or cannot be used, otherwise than 
in connection with a motor vehicle. The exclusion doesnt exclude items that can only be 
used in relation to a motor vehicle (such as tools). It excludes parts or accessories which are 
designed to be used with a motor vehicle. And for the reasons Ive given, I dont agree that 
the disputed items can fairly be described as parts or accessories. It therefore follows that 
esure have unfairly and unreasonably declined Mr and Mrs S claim.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out above I uphold this complaint and require esure Insurance 
Limited to: 
settle Mr and Mrs S claim for the three trolley car jacks; spark plug wrench and axle 
stands in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy; and
add interest at a rate of 8% simple to any cash settlement it makes for these items, 
calculated from the date of the claim until the date of settlement. (Note: If esure 
Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require esure Insurance Limited to pay 
the awards detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman