DRN-2376399
Complaint
Miss M has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA in my decision.
Background
Miss M bought the policy in April 2000 at the same time as taking out a store card.
The policy cost £1 per £100 of Miss Ms outstanding monthly statement balance. And if she 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 15% of that 
balance until the end date, unless the balance was repaid in full, or Miss M returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss M says that the store assistant completed the application form for her, and she was 
never asked about PPI  it was just added to the card. AXA says Miss M chose to take PPI 
and its provided a copy of Miss Ms application form for me to review. 
Miss M has also reviewed the application form and says you can tell it wasnt completed by 
her because her first name is spelt incorrectly. I agree  its likely based on the spelling of 
her name that the store assistant completed parts of the application for her. But much of the 
data entered contains personal information about Miss M that only Miss M herself would 
have been able to provide. So, I think its likely the store assistant completed parts of the 
form for Miss M while discussing the application with her. 
Looking at the form in more detail, there is a section about Account Cover  PPI. This 
broadly explains what the cover is and underneath, there is a statement to say yes to 
Account Cover. In brackets it says, Only sign this box if you require Account Cover. I can 
see Miss M signed in the box, indicating she wanted the PPI added to her account. So, I 
think its more likely than not Miss M would have understood the PPI was optional. And I 
dont think she would have signed for the PPI if she didnt want to take it out.
AXA didnt recommend PPI to Miss M, so it didnt have to check it was right for her. But AXA 
did need to give her enough information about the PPI, so she could decide whether to take 
it or not.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Miss M doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions or unusual employment 
circumstances. And based on what I know about her circumstances at the time of sale, it 
looks like the policy could have been useful to her. So, I dont think better information would 
have stopped her from buying it. 
I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Miss M.
Ive considered that Miss M says she was entitled to statutory sick pay (SSP), and that she 
had some savings. But I think its unlikely SSP would have been enough for Miss M to cover 
all of her expenses if she lost her job or was too unwell to work. And she described her 
savings as not much. So, given the policy would have paid out on top of the SSP and 
potentially for longer, I think Miss M could have found the cover useful if she fell on hard 
times. 
Overall, I dont think better information would have changed Miss Ms decision to take the 
policy and I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman