DRN-3451572
The complaint
Miss A complains that UK Credit Limited (UK Credit) lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Miss A was given a loan by UK Credit. She applied for the loan in August 2018, for £1000
and agreed to repay £102.36 a month over a year. The total repayable if the loan went to full
term would be £1228.32.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
UK Credit gathered some information from Miss A before it agreed to the loan. It asked her
for details of her income and her expenditure. It says it then verified Mrs As income using an
online verification tool. It says it then checked Miss As credit file to determine how much she
was paying to other lenders.
UK Credit made an assessment of Miss As disposable income and the likelihood that she
would be able to repay the loan. It used verified income and then expenditure that Miss A
declared to it on the phone.
I can see why UK Credit would think the loan repayment would be affordable based on what
it had calculated. But I dont think its checks were proportionate and I think it should have
gathered more information than it did. I say this because in the credit search it had carried
out and had in front of it, it would have seen Miss A had made a late payment on a credit
card. Miss A was also over her agreed limit on this card and one other. So, I think it would
have wanted to carry out further checks to find out more about this and assure itself that
Miss A could afford the repayments in a sustainable way.
In addition, I am also not sure that it made a realistic assessment of Miss As expenditure.
UK Credit has recently stated that the figure it recorded down for food was per week and not
per month. There were also no other expenditure figures recorded down in its assessment
other than credit commitments that it took from a credit search. I dont think the assessment
UK Credit carried out on Miss As expenditure was realistic and based on the term or the
loan, I think UK Credit should have done more.
I need to think about what UK Credit would have seen if it had carried out proportionate
checks. Our investigator asked Miss A to provide her bank statements from around the
time she applied for the loan, for a period of around three months. They did this on 22
September 2021. Im not suggesting here that this is the check that UK Credit should have
done. But I think looking at her bank statements over a period such as three months would
give me the best picture of what the lender should have seen.
Miss A has not provided statements from this time to our service. Without any further
information provided here, it is difficult for me to be able to see what UK Credit would have
most likely seen if it had carried out further checks. So, because of this, I am unable to
safely conclude that Miss A was given a loan that was unaffordable for her.
So, I currently dont think UK Credit was wrong to give the loan to Miss A based on the
circumstances of her complaint.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. UK Credit responded and said it had no further comments. 
Miss A did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UK Credit has not made any new points for me to respond to and Miss A has not 
responded. So, as neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment 
on or that will change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from 
my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold Miss 
As complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman