DRN-3896044
The complaint
Mr B complains Santander UK Plc recorded a default on his credit file in relation to his 
overdraft.
 
What happened
Mr B had a £1,500 overdraft on his student current account. Mr B discovered Santander had 
defaulted his account in November 2021.
 
Mr B complained to Santander. Santander said theyd written to Mr B a number of times at 
the address they held for him asking him to make payments to the account but no payments 
were made and they hadnt heard from him, so theyd defaulted the account. They said 
theyd reported this action, in line with their obligations to report account conduct, to the 
credit reference agencies. 
 
Mr B wasnt happy with Santanders response. So he referred his complaint to our service. 
An Investigator considered Mr Bs concerns. He said, in summary, Santander had tried to 
contact Mr B about the account but as the account was not repaid, Santander were entitled 
to close it and register a default in relation to the overdrawn balance. 
Mr B said he didnt accept the Investigators findings. He said there were a number of 
reasons he hadnt updated his address with Santander and he felt these had been 
disregarded. 
As Mr B didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account, the overdraft was repayable on demand  
which meant Santander could ask Mr B to repay part, or all of it, at any time. Also, the 
particular terms relating to the student overdraft required Mr B to make a payment of £500 
per academic term into his account and Mr B was required to use his student account as his 
main account. 
In addition to considering the agreement Mr B had with Santander, Ive also considered 
whether it was fair and reasonable in these particular circumstances for Santander to take 
the action they did. 
Mr B spoke to Santander in September 2020  Ive listened to this call. Mr B said hed 
received two letters saying regular payments are required into the account. The agent 
explained that payments need to credit the account each term. And they explained if Mr B 
didnt do that, he was at risk of the overdraft being removed. Mr B said he was expecting a 
student finance payment at the end of September or the beginning of October 2020 and told 
Santander during that call he would arrange for his student finance to be paid into the 
account. So based on this call, Im satisfied Mr B was aware that the terms of the account 
required him to make regular payments into it to maintain the overdraft. 
I can see from Mr Bs statements though; he didnt arrange for his student finance to be paid 
into the Santander account. The last time money was paid into the account was 6 January 
2021, which was a faster payment from another account that appears to be in Mr Bs name. 
Santander wrote to Mr B - at the address they held for him - in May, June, and July 2021 
requesting payments be made to the account and explaining the overdraft would be 
removed if payments werent received. As no payments were received, the overdraft was 
removed in July 2021. They then issued a default notice on 8 October 2021 which explained 
Mr B was required to repay the full overdrawn amount within 14 days to avoid further action. 
Mr B says he didnt receive any of these letters because he wasnt living at the address 
Santander held for him. But Santanders records show that he was logging in to online 
banking during 2021, so Mr B would have been able to see his overdrawn balance and that 
he hadnt made a payment into the account since January 2021. And his online statements 
would also have shown the address Santander held for him. 
It was for Mr B to keep his contact details up to date with Santander. Mr B has told us he 
didnt because he had suffered a bereavement in January 2021, his parents were going 
through a divorce and he was struggling with his mental health. Im sorry to hear all that 
Mr Bs been through, its clearly been a difficult time for him and I can understand why 
dealing with Santander and his overdraft would not have been his priority. However, I dont 
think that means Santander werent entitled to follow their usual process and default Mr Bs 
account, for the reasons Ive explained above. Santanders obligation was to write to Mr B at 
the address they held for him, which Im satisfied they did. 
Mr B says he went into branch in August and October 2021 to explain he was continuing his 
studies, and wanted his account to remain a student, rather than graduate, account. 
Santanders records show only one of these visits on 27 October 2021  theres no record of 
the August visit. Mr B is unhappy Santander didnt tell him about the status of his account 
when he was in the branch. Santander said any discussion about the default or collections 
activity would need to have been handled by the collections team  so they wouldnt have 
expected staff to discuss this with Mr B during his time in the branch.
Even if Santander had mentioned the status of Mr Bs account during his visits to the branch, 
this wouldnt make a difference to his overall complaint. The overdraft had already been 
removed by August and the default notice had already been sent to his previous address on 
8 October 2021  and the 14-day period to avoid further action had already expired. 
So on both occasions, Mr B would have been required to repay the overdraft in full in order 
to avoid further action. Mr B has said his parents had the money to pay the debt off and he 
received student finance payments that were more than enough to repay the overdraft. 
Despite this, Mr B hadnt made a payment into this account for a number of months and 
theres no guarantee his parents wouldve done so. So Im not persuaded Mr B would have 
been in a position to avoid the default in any event. 
Im satisfied Santander followed the correct process for contacting Mr B about his overdraft 
and then about the default. As Mr B didnt repay the overdrawn balance when asked, 
Santander were entitled to close his account and register a default. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman