DRN-3589007
The complaint
Mr S complains that Contis Financial Services Limited failed to refund transactions he didnt
recognise.
What happened
Mr S became aware of a number of transactions to an online food delivery merchant Ill refer
to as P. Mr S didnt recognise these transactions and notified Contis about them. During the
conversation, Mr S told Contis that hed been helped by his friend to set up an account with
a different online merchant because he didnt know how to do it. His friend completed the
new account which included adding the payment details from Mr Ss debit card.
Contis declined to make a refund to Mr S and told him hed breached his terms and
conditions by allowing his card details to be known to another person. Contis also told Mr S
that this prevented them from following up with a Chargeback request. Chargebacks are a
system operated by the card operator and are subject to various rules.
Contis advised Mr S to approach P directly. P refused to provide Mr S with information about
the account holder because of data protection provisions. P told Mr S that his bank (Contis)
should contact them and gave Mr S a specific reference number related to his enquiry. They
also told Mr S they would ask their account holder to contact him  but this never happened.
Mr S complained about how his issue had been dealt with but Contis refused to change their
position. Mr S then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman for an independent
review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked for information from both
parties. Mr S explained what had happened and speculated that it may have been his friend
who could have copied the details or photographed them when helping him  but he couldnt
be sure about this.
Contis supplied limited information about the complaint. Our investigator upheld Mr Ss
complaint.
Contis were then able to supply audit data about the transactions and made several points
about the investigators outcome:
That Mr S breached his terms and conditions by not keeping his card details safe.
That the matter should be for the police to investigate.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S described being made aware of the payments to P because he noticed his account had
less money than he thought it should have done. When he called Contis, they were able to
explain that several payments had been made over the previous few months to P. Mr S told
Contis that he didnt have an account with P.
Contis discussed the situation with Mr S and he speculated that his card details had been
acquired by a close friend when Mr S had asked them for help setting up an app. I asked Mr
B about this app and he explained it was to allow him to book transport  rather than to order
food.
Mr S doesnt know if it was his friend who was responsible for using his card details 
although he suspected it was them when he first became aware of the disputed transactions.
When Mr S tried to get the information from P, they wouldnt disclose anything to him 
which seems to indicate that the account was set up in another persons name.
Having looked at the payment data supplied by Contis, its apparent that these payments
were set up using Mr Ss card details to allow additional transactions (with P) to be carried
out. I dont doubt Mr Ss version of events that he wasnt responsible for these transactions
and Contiss belief that Mr S let others obtain his card details supports this as well.
So, Im satisfied that Mr S wasnt responsible for making these transactions  essentially
they were unauthorised. Ive gone on to consider the relevant regulations related to this
complaint, including section 77(4)(d) of the Payment Service Regulations (PSRs), which
explains that, except where a payer has acted fraudulently, Mr S isnt liable for unauthorised
transactions where the payment instrument has been used in connection with a distance
contract (other than an excepted contract).
A distance contract is defined as per the Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and
Additional Charges) Regulations 2013. In summary, it means a transaction that is completed
without the merchant or consumer being physically present.
Here, the transactions made on Mr Ss account was to a provider of online food delivery
services. So, Im persuaded that Mr Ss payment instrument was used in connection with a
distance contract  and Ive not seen anything to suggest that its an excepted contract.
Contis case is that Mr S is liable for these transactions because he breached his terms and
conditions  essentially that he either acted fraudulently, failed with intent or was grossly
negligent with the security of his card details. But, as Ive explained, section 77(4)
establishes that Mr Ss only liable for transactions in connection with a distance contract
where hes acted fraudulently. That means I dont need to consider gross negligence or
intent here. And I note theres no suggestion by Contis that Mr S acted fraudulently.
So, taking everything into account, my current thinking is that Im satisfied these were
unauthorised transactions, where Mr Ss payment instrument was used in connection with a
distance contract (that wasnt an excepted contract). It follows that hes not liable and Im
intending to instruct Contis to put things right  by refunding Mr Ss losses from these
transactions alongside simple interest at 8% per annum to compensate him for the time hes
been out of pocket and a payment of £100 for the stress and inconvenience caused to Mr S.
I invited Mr S and Contis to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Contis accepted my provisional decision and Mr S  
didnt have anything further to add about his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as Contis accepted my provisional decision and Mr S had nothing 
further to add, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms 
the findings set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Im satisfied these were unauthorised transactions, where Mr Ss payment instrument was 
used in connection with a distance contract (that wasnt an excepted contract). It follows that 
hes not liable and Contis are instructed to refund Mr Ss losses from these disputed
Transactions. This alongside simple interest to be paid at 8% per annum to compensate him 
for the time hes been out of pocket (interest is payable from the time of the reported loss to 
the date of repayment) and a payment of £100 for the stress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Contis Financial Services Limited 
to settle the complaint as detailed above, accepting that some payments have already been 
made. 
If Contis considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman