DRN-3015566
The complaint
Mr N complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) registered missed payment markers on 
his credit file in error, resulting in him being declined further finance and damaging his credit 
rating. 
What happened
Following the Covid pandemic, Mr N applied for a payment deferral for his two buy to let 
mortgages (BTL) with Barclays in April 2020. Mr N says Barclays recorded these payment 
deferrals as missed payments on his credit file in April and May 2020. Mr N says 
subsequently as a result of the direct debit not being correctly reinstated, he had to make 
monthly arrangements to pay one of his BTLs. 
Mr N says despite a number of telephone conversations with Barclays, they failed to correct 
the missed payments recorded against his credit file or reinstate his direct debits. Mr N says 
this resulted in him being declined for BTL mortgages with Barclays, and other lenders and 
also meant his credit file rating had been reduced from excellent to fair. Mr N wishes 
Barclays to reinstate his credit rating to its previous excellent status, remove any adverse 
credit entries on his credit file, correctly reinstate his direct debits for his BTLs, offer him a 
BTL mortgage facility and pay him compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Barclays says they accept they made an error when they incorrectly marked Mr Ns credit file 
with missed payment markers, but they have now corrected this for April and May 2020 and 
his direct debits have been correctly reinstated. Barclays says they didnt decline a request 
for a BTL mortgage from Mr N, but they had asked for further information before they could 
make a lending decision and that information hadnt been provided by him. Barclays have 
apologised and say they have offered Mr N £400 to compensate him for their mistakes.
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Mr Ns complaint. While 
she took into account this happened during the Covid pandemic and this had created issues 
for Barclays, she felt Barclays could have dealt with the reinstatement of the direct debit 
sooner than it did and removed the missed payment markers from Mr Ns credit file, when he 
originally asked. The investigator says Barclays were entitled to ask for further information 
before making a decision on providing further BTL mortgage funding available and says 
there was no evidence to support Mr N had lost out on a property as a result of Barclays 
actions. The investigator felt that Barclays should increase its offer for the trouble and 
inconvenience caused from £400 to £500, given the continued mistakes made before and 
post Mr Ns original complaint. 
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators view and says Barclays have since compounded the 
problem by recording further missed payments on his credit file, for one of his BTLs. Mr N 
asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can see it would have been both frustrating and upsetting for Mr N to see his credit file 
affected by Barclays incorrectly recording missed BTL mortgage payments, after he had put 
in place a payment deferral arrangement with them. When looking at this complaint, I will 
consider whether Barclays were responsible for Mr N failing to obtain finance for other BTL 
mortgages and if the level of compensation they have offered him is fair and reasonable. 
The first thing to say is, I have to take into account the fact this happened during the Covid 
pandemic which affected both businesses and customers alike.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) put in place in March 2020, guidance for lenders like 
Barclays in the exceptional circumstances arising out of coronavirus (Covid-19) and its 
impact on the financial situation of its customers.
It stated that :
 where a customer is experiencing or reasonably expects to experience payment difficulties 
as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to receive a payment 
holiday, a firm should grant a customer a payment holiday for 3 monthly payments, unless it 
can demonstrate it is reasonable and, in the customers, best interest to do otherwise.
Barclays did provide Mr N with the help he asked for and in the spirit of the FCA guidelines, 
but they have accepted they made mistakes here, and agree they shouldnt have recorded 
missed payments on Mr Ns credit file in April and May 2020, as a payment deferral had 
been agreed with Mr N. The issue raised by Mr N, is the ongoing impact this has had on his 
attempts to secure finance with Barclays and elsewhere and the stress this has caused him. 
Mr N has explained that even post the view issued by the investigator, Barclays have 
continued to report adverse credit entries on his credit file, latterly in April and May 2021 and 
have still failed to properly reinstate his direct debits for his BTL mortgages. 
I do have some sympathy with Mr N over what happened here, and I was also sorry to learn 
he had contracted the coronavirus and I hope he is now fully recovered from that. 
Mr N initially raised his complaint with Barclays in July 2020, this was during the midst of the 
pandemic and while I understand the frustrations over the number of phone calls he had to 
make, the backdrop of the pandemic meant that many businesses faced problems that 
resulted in inconvenience to its customers. So, its important that this is taken into account 
when trying to resolve a complaint. Thats not to say Barclays havent made mistakes here -
they have, but from the information I have seen they did correct the missed BTL mortgage 
payments recorded in April and May 2020 on Mr Ns credit file, albeit not until October 2020, 
just prior to Mr N referring the matter to this service.
I would say that it can take a little time before these missed payments are actually removed 
from Mr Ns credit file which could explain why he believed they were still outstanding in 
November 2020, when they had in fact been removed. I do agree with the investigators view 
that Barclays should have ensured the direct debits that were in place were correctly 
reinstated, once Mr N had raised the complaint with them in July 2020, but for some reason, 
that hasnt been made clear, one of the BTL mortgage direct debits wasnt set up, leaving Mr 
N to make separate arrangements each month. During the course of the investigation, one of Mr Ns BTL mortgages was again reported to 
the credit reference agencies with missed payments for April and May 2021, which Barclays 
says was due to the fact Mr Ns payments on that BTL mortgage had been received after the 
due payment date. While that may be true, I am satisfied that Barclays should have correctly 
reinstated the direct debit so this didnt happen, so any adverse entries relating to those late 
payments should also be removed from Mr Ns credit file. I am pleased to say that this 
service has now been provided with evidence from Barclays to show the direct debits have 
now been reinstated, so the missed payment issues shouldnt reoccur going forward. 
Mr N is also concerned with the impact the missed payment markers have had on his ability 
to raise finance from other lenders. While I understand this, I havent been provided with any 
evidence to say the missed payment markers were the sole reason for such funding 
requests being declined, and in any event,  lenders would take into account other 
considerations when making decisions whether to lend or not. So, I cant say this would have 
been the reason why any funding might have been declined. I say this because Mr N says 
Barclays also refused to provide a further BTL mortgage because of his credit file issues, but 
from what I have seen this wasnt the reason for any refusal to provide funding, but more to 
do with the fact Barclays required more up to date information from Mr N before making a 
lending decision - I am satisfied that wasnt unreasonable of Barclays. It follows, I cant tell 
Barclays to make Mr N an offer of further BTL mortgage funding, but I would expect them to 
consider a lending request from him, on the basis Mr N provides the information they 
previously asked of him. 
While Mr N say his credit rating overall has moved from excellent to fair as a result of 
Barclays actions, I wasnt provided with any evidence to show this and I cant say with any 
certainty this would have been the sole reason for Mr N being refused further borrowing in 
any event. Like the investigator says, if Mr N had approached various lenders, as he says, 
its fair to say that such requests could have left a footprint on his credit file which may have 
contributed to any change to his credit rating, but I cant say this did happen nor have I been 
provided with any evidence to suggest it was a result of Barclays telling him to take these 
steps. 
 I do accept Barclays have made mistakes here when they incorrectly registered missed 
payment markers on Mr Ns credit file and exacerbated matters by failing to correctly set up 
the direct debits for the BTL mortgage payments. That said, its not the role of this service to 
penalise businesses, like Barclays, when mistakes happen but to ensure they apologise and 
put matters right when they do. 
I am satisfied Barclays made a reasonable offer of compensation of £400 initially, when Mr N 
complained to them. But given they hadnt correctly reinstated the direct debit, which 
resulted ultimately in them lodging further late payment markers on Mr Ns credit file, a 
further £100 should be paid to Mr N to bring the total compensation payment to £500. 
Furthermore, Barclays should ensure any late payment markers on Mr Ns credit file are 
removed to include those registered for April and May 2021. 
While Mr N will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome here. 
Putting things right
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr N £500 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. In addition, Barclays should ensure any missed payment markers are removed from 
Mr Ns credit file relating to his BTL mortgages with them, from April 2020 to May 2021 
inclusive. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr N £500 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. In addition, Barclays should ensure any missed payment markers are removed from 
Mr Ns credit file relating to his BTL mortgages with them, from April 2020 to May 2021 
inclusive.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman