DRN-2673489
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC didnt do more to prevent him falling victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr S was looking to purchase a new car and came across one he was interested in 
advertised online via a website. After speaking with the seller through email 
correspondence and over the telephone, he decided to purchase the vehicle which was 
being sold for £6000.
Mr S says that he had no concerns regarding the legitimacy of the seller as the website 
where hed found it advertised appeared professional. Hed spoken with representatives of 
the website via an online chat and had communicated with the seller through email and 
telephone conversations. Hed also conducted his own checks on the car to ensure it 
wasnt stolen and had been sent a copy of the registration documents by the seller to verify 
their ownership.
Mr S proceeded to make three bank transfers to pay for the car totalling £6000; these were 
paid to the account details he was provided by the company where the car was advertised. 
Mr S made the payments via two transactions of £2500 and one of £1000 as his transfer 
limit on his mobile banking for new payees was £2500. But after hed transferred the funds 
to the account, he didnt receive the car on the date he was expecting it to be delivered. He 
also received no response from either the seller or the company where hed found the car 
when he tried to contact them. It was then that Mr S says that he discovered hed been a 
victim of fraud and so he reported this to his bank.
Metro looked into Mr Ss fraud claim but said it was unable to recover any of the funds hed 
sent. It said that it couldnt help him any further and directed him to contact the beneficiary 
and report the matter to the authorities.
Mr S was unhappy with this response, so he made a complaint. But Metro declined to 
refund his money. It said that itd checked the beneficiary account and the money had 
been removed prior to Mr S reporting the fraud, so it wasnt able to recover the funds. It 
also mentioned that the payments were made prior to the introduction of a voluntary code 
which it may have considered a refund under. It did however identify some service failings 
and offered to make a goodwill payment of £75
Mr S wasnt happy that Metro didnt agree to reimburse the funds lost, so he came to our 
service to look into the complaint further. An Investigator looked into the evidence provided 
by both parties and concluded that Metro could have identified and intervened in the fraud 
from the point Mr S made the second payment to the fraudster. She pointed out that whilst 
the first payment didnt appear out of character or suspicious, the second represented an 
increase in spending and multiple transactions being made to a new payee. As a result, 
she felt Metro should reimburse the second and third payments including interest.
Metro didnt agree. It provided a detailed response to the investigators assessment 
pointing out the following:
It disagreed that relevant considerations were applied to the Investigators 
view; such as reference to the BSI PAS Code of Practice. It added that this 
code was created by a small number of financial institutions and is being 
incorrectly applied to the majority of the industry that had no involvement in the 
formation of what constitutes best practice.
It said that its important to recognise that there is a balance between 
servicing its customers instruction whilst protecting them from risk. It added 
that its risk appetite is in line with regulatory obligations.
There isnt a statutory underpinning for the rationale regarding its payment 
screening requirements or regulatory obligation for businesses to profile 
payments for the purpose of fraud.
It thought that the ombudsman service appeared to be attempting to take on 
the role of the regulator in dictating what payments should or shouldnt be 
flagged as suspicious. Whilst it acknowledged that our service considers what 
it deems fair and reasonable on a case by case basis, it should carefully 
consider and fairly place weight on what the actual obligations of banks are 
and what due diligence or prerequisite level of care the customer undertook to 
prevent themselves falling victim to a fraud. It felt this hadnt been considered 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
It concluded that it remained of the view that it had acted correctly and 
fairly, and therefore couldnt be held liable for the losses suffered by Mr S.
As Metro disagreed with the Investigators view, the matter was passed to me to make a 
decision.
Prior to issuing any findings, I contacted both parties for further information. I asked why 
Mr S had made three separate transfers rather than paying the amount in one transfer. 
Mr S told our service that he had initially attempted to make a payment for the full amount 
but was blocked from doing so by the bank due to a £2500 limit for transfer. Metro initially 
denied any limits of transfer on the account, but when it looked at the payments again it 
discovered they were carried out via the mobile banking application. It then acknowledged 
that new payees set up via the mobile application were restricted in any initial payments to 
£2500; which coincided with Mr Ss testimony.
Taking all the evidence into account, I issued my provision findings to both parties for further 
comment. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted by both parties in this complaint that Mr S authorised the transactions made as 
a result of the fraud he fell victim to. Mr S utilised his online banking facility to authenticate 
the payments via his mobile; albeit under deception. 
Broadly speaking, The Payments Services Regulations 2017 states that Mr S is liable for 
any transactions that he has authorised or consented to. So, although Mr S didnt intend the 
money to go to the fraudster, under the relevant regulations, and the terms and conditions of 
his account, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Metro should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Having looked at Mr Ss account activity prior to the above payments being made, I broadly 
agree with the Investigators findings that the pattern and characteristics of the payments 
Mr S made did constitute a change in his usual account expenditure. I say this due to the 
quick succession of the three payments, the fact that they were to a new payee and that the 
amounts (two payments of £2500 followed by a payment of £1000) were quite a bit higher 
than the payments Mr S normally made from his account.
Having said this, I appreciate banks need to strike a balance in the extent to which it 
intervenes in payment, against the risk of unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate 
payment requests.
Keeping this in mind, it isnt unusual for customers to occasionally make a slightly higher 
payment than usual for higher value purchases. So I dont think that the first payment Mr S 
made for £2500 would go far enough to say that this represented such a risk that it would be 
fair or reasonable for Metro to have intervened. Whilst it was higher than the usual payments 
he tended to make, it wasnt so significant that it represented an obvious concern. 
But Mr S then proceeded to make a further £2500 payment to this new payee within quick 
succession, and then a further £1000 following this. I think at the point Mr S made the 
second high value payment it represented not only a significant increase in spendingin 
comparison to his usual account activitybut an unusual pattern and behaviour when 
considering the above characteristics. So, I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that this 
was the point in which Metro should have intervened and questioned Mr S regarding the 
purpose of the payments to ensure he wasnt at risk.
But had Metro intervened in the second payment that Mr S made, Im not persuaded this 
would either have prevented him from making the payment or identified that he was victim to 
a fraud. Ill explain why.
Mr S had carried out a significant amount of due diligence checks prior to authorising the 
payments for the vehicle he was supposed to be buying. Hed carried out checks through an 
independent company to ensure that the vehicle wasnt lost, stolen or had credit associated 
with it. He also had the seller send a copy of the vehicle registration documents which 
appeared legitimate and held the information he expected to see.
In addition to the above, he found the vehicle himself after browsing the internet. The 
website where he found the car advertised appeared professional, and I cant see any 
reports at the time Mr S made the transactions of any adverse information relating to the 
company through open resource checks on the internet. Mr S also communicated with the seller through email correspondence and via telephone calls; the latter being unusual in 
circumstances of fraud. 
Additionally, he contacted the company where the vehicle was advertised and was provided 
the account details for payment through a webchat facility on the website rather than directly 
from the seller. So, on the face of it, the only element of risk that was presented was the fact 
that Mr S hadnt seen the vehicle personally. But this isnt uncommon when making 
purchases online through websites. I think it likely that had this information been presented 
to Metro if itd questioned him about the payments, it likely wouldnt have appeared 
suspicious in the circumstances. And when considering that Mr S has admitted to already 
being cautious about the purchase at the time of making it, I dont think any warnings 
regarding fraud of this nature would likely have been enough for him to not go ahead with 
the payment, as hed already carried out a number of due diligence checks to mitigate this 
risk.
Mr S has argued that this may have prompted him to not go ahead with the payment 
regardless of his hesitation, but whilst I cant be certain, I find that its more likely than not 
that he would have for the reasons Ive given.
I appreciate that this may come as a disappointment to Mr S, but ultimately the fraudster is 
responsible for the loss hes incurred. And whilst I agree that Metro should have intervened 
in the payments and done more to make sure Mr S wasnt at risk of financial harm, I dont 
believe that this would have ultimately led to him not being defrauded. The fraud was 
complex, well engineered and convincing in its execution; and therefore, difficult to detect. It 
follows that it would be unreasonable to hold Metro liable for the transactions hed made 
considering that any intervention wouldnt likely have changed the outcome.
Lastly, Ive noted that there has been some mention throughout the duration of this 
complaint process of a voluntary code signed up to by Metro, referred to as The Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM). The CRM code was introduced for fraud that took place on or 
after the 28 May 2019 and isnt being applied retrospectively. As this is a voluntary code and 
was applied after the date Mr S made the payments from his account, I cant consider the 
circumstances of this complaint under the CRM code.
Responses to my provisional findings
Mr S responded saying that both the Investigator and I have pointed out that Metro failed in 
intervening in the payment and potentially preventing the fraud from taking place. Whilst he 
thought that the findings were impartial and that Metro werent liable to reimburse the full 
amount, he believed there should be a middle ground for recompense since the intervention 
hadnt taken place.
Metro responded saying that it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have broadly agreed with the provisional findings Ive outlined above, I wont 
go over these again. But Mr S has pointed out that whilst he understands the findings made, 
he believes that there should be some middle ground for recompense considering that Metro 
failed in its obligation to intervene in the payments. Whilst I appreciate the point Mr S has 
made, it isnt the role of this service to punish businesses for any general regulatory failings 
its made. It is the role of this service to put the consumer back into the position they would have been in had any errors or failings not occurred. We also consider if its fair and 
reasonable to award compensation for any distress or inconvenience caused as a result of 
this.
As Ive already pointed out in my provisional findings, I dont think it likely that any 
intervention by the bank would have resulted in a different outcome due to the complexity 
and persuasiveness of the fraudsters method. So it would be unreasonable in these 
circumstances for me to direct Metro to reimbursewholly or in partany of the funds lost 
considering that any intervention would likely have failed in preventing the loss. It wouldnt 
be fair to expect Metro to compensate him given that Ive found it wasnt the cause of his 
loss.
Considering the responses provided by both parties, Im not minded to change the findings 
outlined in my provisional decision. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but I hope my explanation 
as to how my decision has been reached goes some way to help him understand why it is 
fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman