DRN-3830289
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd (Virgin) didnt provide a low 
risk/safe fund for her stakeholder pension as she approached retirement despite saying it 
would do so in its literature. She also feels that Virgin failed to react to market conditions. 
Shed like compensation for the losses incurred.
What happened
Mrs S has had a stakeholder pension plan with Virgin since 2016. Mrs S chose to invest in 
an arrangement which moved her pension funds from Virgins Pension Growth Fund, which 
invests in UK stocks and shares, to its Money Pension Bond and Gilt Fund, as she got closer 
to her selected retirement date. By 2019, Mrs Ss pension plan was fully invested in the bond 
and gilt fund.
Mrs S said that over the last few years, shed seen her fund value drop from £64,148 on 31 
October 2020, to £57,137 on 30 April 2022. This led to Mrs S having concerns that Virgin 
had mismanaged her fund. So she complained to Virgin. 
Virgin issued its final response to the complaint on 17 June 2022. It didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. It said that the fall in value was due to a low demand for bonds and gilts and 
reductions in returns on newer bonds and gilts due to market conditions.
Mrs S was unhappy with this response. So she brought her complaint to this service. She felt 
that Virgin had mismanaged her pension by not ensuring her money was moved to an 
appropriately low-risk fund as she approached retirement, as noted in its terms and 
conditions. She felt the losses shed suffered were more in line with riskier funds, not one 
that was supposed to prepare for retirement income. And said that the funds shed been 
invested in had lost more money than the riskier stocks and shares funds wouldve done. 
Mrs S also felt that Virgin hadnt explained why it didnt choose better bonds and gilts or 
diversify once losses started to be incurred. She felt this indicated poor management. 
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt agree with 
Mrs S that Virgin had mismanaged her pension fund. He said that Virgin werent Mrs Ss 
adviser, which meant that she would need to check her pension investments were suitable 
for her. He felt Virgin had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when itd 
moved Mrs Ss investments into bonds and gilts as shed approached retirement.  
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigator. She felt hed failed to address the part of her 
complaint that Virgins low risk account had performed worse than any of its higher risk 
accounts. She felt this showed shed not been invested in the lowest risk option but the 
highest risk.
Our investigator said that bonds and gilts were considered a secure form of investment. But 
that they werent no risk investments, so their value could go up and down. He also said that 
just because one fund outperformed another, didnt mean it was a lower risk fund.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint, for the following reasons.
I dont think Virgin has made any errors here. I think it managed Mrs Ss pension 
investments in line with the terms and conditions of her plan. And it was Mrs Ss 
responsibility to ensure her investments were appropriate for her. 
Mrs S shared an extract from the key features of her pension investment with Virgin, as 
follows:
With the AFS, you initially invest in the Virgin Pension Growth Fund (which invests in UK 
Stocks and Shares). Then, each year of the ten years before your retirement date, we move 
10% of your pension savings to our Virgin Money Pension Bond and Gilt Fund (our lowest 
risk fund, which invests in corporate bonds and UK Government gilts) as shown below. You 
can turn off the AFS at any time and your fund selection will stay as it is. You can switch to 
any of our other funds whenever you want.
Mrs S told this service that Virgin didnt provide a low-risk fund as she approached 
retirement despite saying it would in its literature.
I acknowledge that the extract Mrs S provided does state that the Gilt Fund is Virgins lowest 
risk fund. But Virgin cant change Mrs Ss investment to a different fund unless she instructs 
it to. Virgin act as Mrs Ss pension provider, not her investment adviser. So although I 
acknowledge Mrs S considers that Virgin failed to react to market conditions when the bond 
and gilt funds underperformed other funds that it deemed to be higher risk, I cant fairly 
agree that it did anything wrong. From what Ive seen, Virgin correctly moved Mrs Ss funds 
as she approached retirement in line with what it said it would do. And explained to her that 
she could choose to switch to any of its other funds if and when she wanted to.
As Mrs S noted, its common for a pension provider to offer Lifestyle type arrangements 
like the one shes invested in. These aim to manage investment risks as someones 
retirement age approaches by gradually moving investments out of equity-type assets into 
cash and fixed interest assets like gilts over a number of years. 
These investments generally exhibit lower volatility than equity assets over the long term. 
But these strategies dont eliminate risk. And in certain situations fixed interest investments 
can fall in value quickly, as was unfortunately the case here. 
Its important to note that Virgin wasnt providing Mrs S with advice about her pension 
investments. And I think the information Mrs S was given did explain that it was up to her to 
decide what she was invested in, and that she could switch into other funds whenever she 
wanted. 
Virgin wasnt responsible for advising Mrs S about how her funds should be invested. Nor 
was it responsible for monitoring the performance of her funds. It was required to follow the 
predetermined fund switches within the Lifestyle type arrangement Mrs S had selected in 
the run up to her retirement date. But it was Mrs Ss responsibility to check if this was 
appropriate for her needs. And if she felt it wasnt, she couldve changed it at any time.Ive not seen any evidence that the performance of the bond and gilt funds was out of line 
with respective benchmarks, which indicates that there wasnt any mismanagement of the 
underlying funds. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think Virgin has made any error, or treated Mrs S unfairly. So I 
dont uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman