DRN-2711608
The complaint
Mr R says Helm Godfrey Partners Ltd (HGP) gave him unsuitable advice about his pension 
arrangements which has resulted in financial detriment.
Mr R is represented in his case by Mac Fin Consulting Ltd.
What happened
Mr R had been a client of HGP since 2006, when he received pension transfer advice. He 
brought three separate complaints against HGP in 2017. It decided to deal with these as 
one case with a single final response.
In summary, Mr R complained that HGP was responsible for unsuitable advice and pension 
arrangements between 2008 and 2016. In particular, his complaint letters focussed on:
- In 2008, incorrect risk profiling which led to an unsuitable recommendation for him 
to invest in the Romanian Dynamic Property Fund (RDP), an unregulated 
collective investment scheme (UCIS).
- In 2010, inappropriate classification of him as an Elective Professional Client 
(EPC) and the unsuitable advice for him to invest in the specialist Seneca US Oil 
and Gas Opportunities Fund (Seneca)  another UCIS.
- In 2012, unsuitable recommendations related to retirement planning and the 
Lifetime Allowance (LTA) regime and the switch of his pension provision into an 
AXA Family Suntrust scheme (FST). There was also an issue around a pension 
contribution made around this time and about a tax-free cash (TFC) transaction.
To keep things as simple as possible and to avoid unnecessary paperwork and further 
delays, Mr Rs complaint was split into two cases. One related to his RDP and Seneca 
investments - this has already been dealt with. His complaint about the advice he received 
concerning the FST and associated matters is the focus of this decision.
Mr R, through his representative, has various concerns about what he says was the poor 
advice provided by HGP between 2011 and 2016. In particular in relation to the new pension 
arrangements it recommended and the associated tax implications.
HGP refuted Mr Rs complaint. It said the advice it had provided throughout this period had 
been suitable. It also set out what elements of Mr Rs third complaint it thought this Service 
could consider, and those elements it said were outside of our jurisdiction. So, this is 
where I must begin my consideration of this case.
Our jurisdiction to consider Mr Rs complaint
HGP wrote to this Service in November 2018 in the following terms:
the LTA and Fixed Protection are matters of tax, rather than matters of investment 
business and activitiesare within the purview of HMRC, rather than regulated by the 
FCA. In the circumstances, we do not see that it is necessary or material to have regard to 
the provisions of the FCA Handbook, or to the definition of complaint or ancillary activities.
Indeed, the position is determined by the statutory provisions...
We have obviously confirmed that we accept  to the extent that the complaint concerns 
the AXA Sun Trust Scheme itself, or the suitability of that arrangement  that would 
concern a regulated activity and so potentially fall within the FOSs jurisdiction. However, 
[Mr Rs] letter of complaint alleged that [Mr R] was not properly advised regarding Fixed 
Protection and that the consequences of this [losing Fixed Protection] were not fully 
explained and that complaint isclearly outside the jurisdiction of the FOS.
I note in January 2019 an ombudsman investigated whether we had jurisdiction for Mr Rs 
complaint about advice in relation to LTA and Fixed Protection (FP). He found HGPs 
assertion that because these were matters dealt with by provisions in certain Finance Acts 
 and enacted after the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA), from which this 
Service draws its jurisdiction  they were outside our ambit.
The ombudsman set out why this was a misunderstanding of the legislation by HGP and he 
concluded we could consider all aspects of Mr Rs case. I agree with his conclusions for 
broadly the same reasons. Im not going to rehearse all the arguments again  instead Ill 
summarise the main points.
DISP 2.3.1 R in the FCA handbook sets out that:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates 
to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following activities:
(1) regulated activities; 
(6)  or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in 
connection with them.
A list of regulated activities is provided and includes advising on investments. A personal 
pension plan is one of the designated investments. In this case, both Mr Rs ceding scheme 
and the proposed FST were personal pensions.
Matters such as the LTA and FP are relevant considerations for an adviser when transferring 
sizeable pension wealth. Of course, this requires some awareness of narrow tax matters. 
But the substantive advice here was around the interplay of these basic rules with Mr Rs 
current and future pension arrangements.
A pension is essentially a tax wrapper around an investment  so the extent to which Mr R 
would continue to benefit from that tax wrapper in full would be relevant to the advice. When 
giving advice I think it would be reasonable to expect issues concerning the tax implications 
of any recommendations to be taken into account.
HGP acknowledged such in its final response to Mr R:
The Suntrust Scheme was identified as an alternative to applying for Fixed Protection 
2012 of £1.8M as any growth within the Suntrust scheme could be directed to your clients 
wife and children thus ensuring that the value of his pension benefits would not breach the 
new LTA thereby preventing a potential 55% tax charge on the excess.
In any event, the service provided by HGP is captured as ancillary to its advice about Mr Rs 
pension arrangements. Mr Rs complaint can be considered by this Service in its entirety.
I issued my provisional decision in April. Neither party had additional evidence or arguments 
for me to consider. As such, I see no reason to depart from my initial findings and 
conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties have provided information and argument concerning the events complained 
about. Ive not given a detailed response to all the points raised. Thats deliberate; ours is 
an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers.
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Rs complaint has different components, covers a period between 2011 and 2016 and 
is bound up with more than one piece of advice. These matters were somewhat conflated 
in the complaint letter to HGP of September 2017. So, I think its helpful to tease out the 
key elements for my consideration:
- A concern about a pension contribution of £150,000 made through Mr Rs 
limited company. This was under consideration from early in 2011, although 
both parties indicate it wasnt given effect until his AXA FST was in place. Its 
suggested the consequences of the contribution were not explained in relation 
to the LTA and FP position, nor other options explored.
- At the heart of Mr Rs complaint is the advice he received to switch his 
pension provision into a FST and the associated consideration of any LTA 
and FP implications. My understanding is that the transfer of his retirement 
funds was implemented in 2012. The matter of the legitimacy of the scheme 
is also raised.
- The suitability of advice for Mr R to draw TFC from his personal pension in 2016.
Meeting notes from 24 March 2011 indicate Mr R was likely to take a dividend from his 
company of around £250,000. At the time he was undecided about what he wanted to do 
with the funds. He was considering making an investment or the purchase of another 
property overseas.
HGP met Mr R again on 22 November 2011. As well as reviewing the performance of 
his portfolio, the main items on the agenda were consideration of his pension tax 
position. In particular, operation of the LTA and FP regimes and his options.
On 25 November 2011, I can see HGP responded to a request from Mr R for some further 
advice about making a substantial pension contribution through his company. It said:As discussed over the phone yesterday you can make a pension contribution to Nucleus for 
£150,000, this is achieved by utilising you unused annual allowance of £50,000 over the last 
2 tax years and the current years allowance. The company will receive corporation tax relief 
and its a good way of getting funds out of the company tax efficiently.
HGP produced a suitability letter on 12 January 2012, this summarised Mr Rs 
circumstances, requirements and risk outlook. It also identified the purpose of their recent 
meeting:
to review your pension and investment arrangements, with a view to making the 
maximum possible contribution to your pension. You advised that the company could 
afford a one-off contribution of £150,000
Based on what Ive seen, I think Mr R wanted to make a significant contribution to his 
pension. He could do so in the knowledge that there were significant tax benefits which 
levered his position. Im satisfied other options for investment were considered. But given 
his desire to bolster his pension pot, HGPs advice seems reasonable.
Mr Rs representative specifically raised what it asserts was a detrimental impact of the 
decision to invest £150,000 in his pension on his LTA and FP position. The main focus of 
HGPs suitability letter from January 2012 was the options open to him in that regard. It 
noted:
Your pension has now reached £1.33m (having taken into account the recent employer 
contribution of £150,000), so you are getting close to the [LTA] which is currently set at 
£1.5m. If you exceed the [LTA] you will suffer a tax charge equivalent to 55% on the excess 
which you have said you would prefer to prevent if possible. It is possible that you will want 
to make ongoing pension contributions, depending on how your business performs.
HGP identified the three main options open to Mr R:
- Do nothing and hope that the value of his pension benefits didnt exceed his 
LTA when he decided to draw his benefits. Given the size of his fund at the 
time and modest assumptions about future investment growth and his 
circumstances, its possible to understand why this approach wasnt favoured.
- Apply for FP 2012 prior to the deadline on 5 April 2012. This wouldve fixed his 
LTA at £1.8m. The consequence here wouldve been that hed have been unable 
to make further contributions to his pension pot. And ongoing review of his 
investment strategy wouldve been required to ensure the cap wasnt breached.
- Establish a FST, which HGP advised would provide him with the most flexibility, 
for example him to reallocate investment growth to other members of the 
scheme.
Although the investment of £150,000 had some effect on his LTA and FP position, it wasnt 
telling in terms of the recommendation HGP made or the decision Mr R had to take in this 
regard. He was still within the limits applicable at the time and had flexibility about what to do 
looking forward.
Im also satisfied that at the time the FST was reasonably identified by HGP as an 
alternative approach to applying for FP 2012. Although he couldve secured a LTA of 
£1.8m, this wouldve curtailed his ability to make further pension contributions. And as 
weve seen from the suitability letter, its clear he was disposed to keeping that option open.The FST offered Mr R the prospect of continuing to make tax efficient pension contributions 
with the ability to allocate growth to other members of the scheme (his wife and children).
This couldve been an effective mechanism for ensuring that the value of his pot didnt 
breach the new LTA, preventing a potential 55% tax charge on the excess.
Im satisfied that Mr R thought this option was the best way forward for him in his 
circumstances. And that HGPs advice was fair at the time given what was known. But as it 
warned in the advice it gave him:
All statements concerning the tax treatment of products and their benefits are based on 
our understanding of current tax law and HM Revenue and Customs practice.
And we know about subsequent changes that mayve had an impact on Mr R.
For example, the Government introduced the LTA in 2006 setting a maximum value of 
benefits someone could receive without a tax penalty at £1.5m. This increased each year 
until 2010-11, when it reached £1.8m. The Government decided to reduce the LTA in 2012- 
2013 when it was set at £1.5m. In 2014-2015 it fell to £1.25m. In 2016-17 the LTA was set 
at £1.0m and more recently there have been some increases to take account of inflation.
As the LTA was reduced the Government introduced transitional measures to ease the 
impact on consumers who had, or expected to have, benefits which exceeded the new 
limits. Including FP2012, which Mr R decided on the advice of HGP not to take advantage 
of.
Mr Rs representative raised a broader concern about the legitimacy of the AXA FST. Ill 
now turn to this aspect of his complaint.
The FST was a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) which had been on the market 
since 2009. It allowed individual pensions to be grouped together and included a facility 
where investment growth could be re-allocated between members pensions on a non- 
proportionate basis.
AXA has provided this Service with information about the development of the FST as well 
as some of the communications that took place between it and HM Revenue & Customs 
(HMRC) about the use of the scheme to reallocate investment growth. I think this is 
important context for my decision in this case. Weve seen:
- The timeline of the development of the FST scheme, provided by AXA.
- Letters between HMRC and the FST team at AXA from May 2015 to July 
2015 discussing the scheme and more specifically the flexibility option.
- Confidential reports to AXA from legal counsel regarding the flexibility option.
The information indicates that:
- AXA started to look into the feasibility of launching the product in late 2006. In light 
of HMRC legislation and after legal advice it launched the FST on a limited basis 
in March 2008 and launched it fully in February 2009.
- Its documented in the timeline provided by AXA that at this point HMRCs view 
was that the flexibility option was within the rules, but it was noted that HMRC 
provided no guarantees that position wouldnt change in the future.
- For the next few years, the information indicates AXA kept reviewing the scheme 
and despite some changes to pension regulation over these years it remained satisfied that HMRC was content with the scheme and that its flexibility option was 
within the relevant rules. This included further legal opinion indicating the 
environmental risk in the area of pensions had increased but that the underlying 
legislation had not changed. In light of this AXA decided to continue operation of 
the FST unchanged.
However, in May 2015 HMRC asked for further details from AXA about how the pooled 
growth in the FST was allocated to its members. This appears to have been prompted by 
an increase in pension liberation scams (a type of fraud). AXAs response tried to 
reassure HMRC about the flexibility option, but HMRC advised that it had concerns over 
the model being used to allocate growth and it felt that this could be contrary to sections 
172 (Assignment of benefits) and/or 172A (Surrender of benefits) of the Finance Act 2004.
Because of these concerns, HMRC stopped registering new schemes. There was a further 
meeting between AXA and HMRC in September 2015. HMRC resumed registration of the 
FST in October 2015. In the same month AXA issued communications to advisers that 
registration of the FST had resumed but its discussions with HMRC were ongoing and all 
features of the product couldnt be guaranteed to remain into the future. Advisers were 
invited to withdraw applications from new clients.
Around this time AXA obtained further legal opinion in response to specific points HMRC 
raised at meetings between itself and AXA in September 2015. This led to AXA writing to 
HMRC in October 2015 asking it to withdraw their objections in light of its most recent 
legal opinion. There then followed much discussion between AXA and HMRC. And AXA 
again sought legal advice during this period.
In January 2016 AXA issued a second communication to advisers informing them that 
HMRC continued to investigate elements of the FST and that registration of the new 
schemes was at their own risk. However, because of the continued HMRC investigations 
AXA closed the FST to new business in May 2016. And by July 2016 the Board of AXA 
made the decision that it was no longer appropriate to continue with the interpretation that 
disproportionate allocation of growth was appropriate within the pension framework as it 
was at that time.
I think this background demonstrates that HGP wouldve have had reasonable assurance 
about the soundness of the AXA FST at the time it advised Mr R to move his pension 
funds into it.
Finally, Mr Rs representative raised a concern hed been treated as an insistent client with 
regard to taking TFC from his FST in 2016. It implied the purpose of this transaction had 
been to generate more fees and charges. Later it suggested hed not wanted to take his 
TFC but had done so because HGP had told him the Government could reduce relevant 
rates and allowances. A linkage was also suggested between a LTA rate of £1.5m and his 
protected LTA of £1.3m.
I think its fair to say that the complaint point made here on Mr Rs behalf wasnt precisely 
made and seems to have evolved.
HGPs suitability letter from 9 February 2016 about this transaction identified Mr Rs 
objectives:
As your pension fund is close to your protected Lifetime Allowance, you would like to look 
at the merits of withdrawing your remaining tax-free lump sum from the Axa Family 
SunTrust and investing the proceeds for the potential of capital growth over the medium to long term (10 years plus). You do not want the capital to be inaccessible should you need 
access but, at present you have sufficient income from your employment and do not 
require additional income. You would like the volatility in any new investment to be limited. 
As you intend to scale back your business over the next few years, you are likely to want to 
increase your income at some point in the future.
It seems the transaction was in line with Mr Rs stated objectives. Id also observe the 
following from the evidence Ive reviewed:
- Theres nothing which shows Mr R was being treated as an insistent client for the 
purposes of accessing his TFC. Indeed, in its suitability letter dated 9 February 
2016 HGP recommended he drew on the funds.
- Ive not seen an upfront charge taken by HGP for the investment Mr R made with 
his TFC capital. And it says whether the funds had remained in his FST or the new 
investment, its fees for ongoing service wouldve been the same. Mr R hasnt 
produced any evidence to the contrary.
- HGP says Mr R applied for Individual Protection in 2015 which had the effect of 
fixing his LTA at £1.3m. This seems unconnected with his decision in 2016 to take 
his TFC, certainly it didnt reduce his LTA.
At the time of HGPs final response to Mr R, it said hed taken about 99% of his TFC 
allowance. Hes had the opportunity to invest that money or use it for his wants and needs. 
Its not clear what financial detriment his representative is suggesting has occurred here. 
And Ive not seen enough to make me think the advice he received was obviously wrong.
My final decision
It follows from my findings and conclusions as Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Rs 
complaint. And I dont require HGP to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021
. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman