DRN-1983942
The complaint
Miss F complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) continued to 
pursue her for a debt when a payment plan had been agreed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MBFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
There seems to have been some confusion about the role of DLC. Our investigator and 
Miss F referred to them as a debt collection company but MBFS insist theyre not. MBFS say 
that DLC are an End of Contract Department. But they also refer to DLC in their final 
response letter as a Debt Management Company. Later in that letter they referred to 
Miss Fs account being passed to a Collections Company and in their emails to us Ive 
seen DLC referred to as an End of Contract Department and a Payment Processing 
Company. Ive reviewed DLCs website and that site explains that they do provide outplaced 
debt recover solutions for clients. So, I assume that was their function here.
All of this served, Im sure, to distress Miss F and I think MBFS could have been clearer 
about the role of DLC. They should therefore provide some compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience this unnecessary lack of clarity caused.
I think its reasonable to suggest that MBFS or DLC were entitled to chase payments when 
they werent made in time. MBFS themselves had a contractual right to transfer any debt to 
another company without telling Miss F. 
So, Ive considered whether any of the letters MBFS or DLC sent were unmerited. Its clear 
Miss F missed some payments and I can see that as a result new payment plans were 
arranged with her in February, March and September 2019. Those missed payments would 
have triggered late payment reminders and I can see these are referred to in MBFSs 
contact notes. I dont think MBFS or their End of Contract Department were wrong to pursue 
these debts. They also chased payments in July and August of that year when payments 
were a little late and, again, I dont think it would be fair to say they were wrong to do so.
I can see that in December 2019 further contact with Miss F was made when a payment 
wasnt received on time and, again, I dont think that was inappropriate. Contact was made 
on a working day and payment was late.
I do, however, note that MBFSs contact notes advise a mistake was made in August 2019. 
The contact notes say they had got the account status wrong and had apologised to Miss F 
for that mistake. The note says, no more calls unless failed payment and I think this 
suggests a call had been made to pursue a payment that wasnt late.
 
Putting things right
So, I think some compensation is due in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused 
by this error and in respect of the distress caused by the lack of clarity in MBFSs 
explanation of the role of DLC. In those circumstances, I would agree with the investigator 
that MBFS should pay Miss F £100.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to pay Miss F £100 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman