DRN-2201293
The complaint
Mrs and Mr J complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc handled a claim they 
made for cash that had been stolen when their home was burgled.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
jurisdiction decision dated 20 August 2020  a copy of which is set out here. In my 
provisional decision I explained why I intended to uphold Mrs and Mr Js complaint and how I 
should RSA should resolve it. I said:
What happened
Mrs and Mr J hold a household insurance policy, which is underwritten by RSA. On 4 April 
2019 their house was burgled and, in addition to damage caused to the interior of their 
property, a number of items were stolen  including £700 in cash.
The money that was stolen had been withdrawn by Mrs J from a bank account in her 
fathers name, who Ill refer to as Mr M in this decision. Mrs J was a signatory to Mr Ms 
account as he was elderly and unwell. Mrs and Mr J paid many of Mr Ms expenses on his 
behalf and would then withdraw money from his account in order to reimburse costs theyd 
incurred.
After their home was burgled, Mrs and Mr J reported what had happened to the police and 
contacted RSA to make a claim under their household insurance. RSA partially settled 
their claim in relation to most of the loss Mrs and Mr J sustained. But it declined to settle 
their claim for the stolen money as it said the money that had been stolen belonged to Mr 
M, who wasnt covered under their policy.
Mrs and Mr J were unhappy with this. They felt the stolen cash was covered as their policy 
covered cash in the house up to the value of £1000. And they said the stolen money had 
belonged to them. So, they complained to RSA.
When RSA responded to Mrs and Mr Js complaint it maintained its decision not to settle 
their stolen money claim. It thought the money had belonged to Mr M. And it explained 
that, under the terms of Mrs and Mr Js policy, it would only cover contents stolen from 
their home which belonged to them or family members who lived with them. As Mr M didnt 
live with Mrs and Mr J it thought it was applying the terms of the policy fairly in repudiating 
their claim.
Being dissatisfied with RSAs response to their complaint, Mrs and Mr J referred it to our
service. They said theyd provided bank statements, which showed cash withdrawals and 
therefore proved there was £700 in cash in their house. And they said the money stolen 
belonged to them as it had been withdrawn from Mr Ms bank account to reimburse them for 
expenditure theyd already incurred on his behalf.
Our investigator assessed the evidence provided by Mrs and Mr J and RSA. But they didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. They didnt think there was enough evidence to show 
the stolen money had belonged to Mrs and Mr J. And they thought RSA had dealt with their 
complaint fairly. They werent persuaded it had made an error in declining this claim. But 
Mrs and Mr J disagreed and asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im departing from 
what our investigator has said. Ill explain why
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I can see Mrs and Mr J have gone to some trouble to provide our service with some very 
detailed submissions about why they believe RSA should meet their claim. I want to 
assure them that Ive read everything theyve sent us. I hope Mrs and Mr J will understand 
if I dont address every comment theyve made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on 
what I consider is key to the complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think RSA made a mistake in deciding Mrs and Mr Js 
claim, or treated them unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right.
RSA doesnt dispute that £700 in cash was stolen from Mrs and Mr Js home. But it wont 
cover their claim for the stolen money because it says the money isnt covered by their 
policy as it was withdrawn from Mr Ms account and therefore doesnt belong to them.
The terms of Mrs and Mr Js insurance policy afford them cover for up to £1000 cash if it is 
stolen from their home provided it belongs to the policy holder or a family member living at 
the insured address. I understand that Mr M doesnt live with Mrs and Mr J. So, it isnt in 
dispute that money belonging to him isnt covered under Mrs and Mr Js policy of 
insurance. The crux of this complaint is therefore whether the money that was stolen 
belonged to Mrs and Mr J or to Mr M.
Ive carefully considered the issue of who the stolen money belonged to. It isnt disputed 
that the money was withdrawn from Mr Ms bank account. But Mrs and Mr J assert that it 
belonged to them as they were intending to use the cash to cover the expenses theyd 
already incurred and paid on Mr Ms behalf.
Mr J said Mrs J visited Mr M twice per week to assist him with his washing, cleaning and to 
deliver food, which shed purchased. In addition to paying for his food Mrs and Mr J said 
theyd pay for Mr Ms carers, whod visit him four times per day. So, the money withdrawn 
from Mr Ms bank account would be used to cover those expenses after theyd been 
already incurred. And Ive seen a copy of the debit card issued to Mrs J by Mr Ms bank, 
which shows how she was able to make cash withdrawals.
Mrs and Mr J have provided our service with a handwritten document, which they say 
itemises the expenses theyd paid on Mr Ms behalf. The note is very detailed and its 
clear Mrs and Mr J were keeping a note of the expenditure they were incurring. It appears 
they were paying for things on Mr Ms behalf on a regular basis.Our investigator wasnt persuaded by Mrs and Mr Js handwritten note because they said 
there was no evidence this note was completed contemporaneously. So, it could have 
been written at any time.
Our investigator also stated they hadnt seen receipts to substantiate the expenses Mrs 
and Mr J had recorded as having been incurred. But Mrs and Mr J said, as the expenses 
endorsed on their note consisted of individual items of shopping for household items, it 
was unreasonable to expect them to have retained receipts.
Theres nothing to suggest to me that Mrs and Mr J created their handwritten record of 
expenditure after the burglary took place. And Ive no reason to doubt what they say about 
the expenses recorded. I agree with them that it would be unreasonable to expect them to 
retain receipts. These expenses had already been incurred and recorded by Mrs J by the 
time the cash was stolen. So, I can understand why she may have discarded receipts for 
the items that had been purchased.
Theres no evidence to suggest Mr M would have asked to see receipts or other proof of 
the expenses Mrs J had recorded and she couldnt have predicted shed need them 
following a future burglary. So, I think its unfair to penalise Mrs and Mr J for being unable 
to produce receipts substantiating the information contained on their expenditure record.
Mrs and Mr J have also shown our service carers bills theyve received on Mr Ms behalf. 
These bills are addressed to Mr M care of Mr J. So, Im satisfied Mrs and Mr J were 
paying Mr Ms carer fees. And I think its likely theyd be reimbursing themselves for that 
expense using money withdrawn from Mr Ms account.
In our investigators view they didnt recommend upholding this complaint because they 
said the cash was withdrawn from Mr Ms account to pay for expenses for which he was 
liable. And they thought the fact that the money hadnt been gifted to Mrs and Mr J, and 
they werent able to spend it as they wanted, was significant.
Im not persuaded by our investigators view here. If the money withdrawn from Mr Ms 
account was for future expenses Mrs and Mr J hadnt already incurred it would be proper 
for RSA to conclude that the money still belonged to Mr M. The same argument would 
apply if Mrs J was withdrawing money from Mr Ms account to pass on to him for his own 
personal use. But this didnt happen. And, here, Mrs and Mr J were using money theyd 
withdrawn from Mr Ms account to cover payments theyd already made on his behalf. So, 
in that scenario the money became Mrs and Mr Js once it was withdrawn from Mr Ms 
account.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im persuaded that Mr M had the benefit of 
items and services Mrs and Mr J had already paid for on his behalf. And Im satisfied they 
intended to use the money that was stolen on 4 April 2019 to reimburse themselves for 
the costs theyd incurred in meeting Mr Ms expenses. So, Im able to safely conclude that 
the stolen money belonged to Mrs and Mr J. It follows that I think RSA should cover their 
claim.
I can understand how upsetting and inconvenient it must have been to Mrs and Mr J when 
RSA declined their claim. And I think it would be fair for RSA to pay them £100 
compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience they experienced as a result of 
their claim being declined. Im satisfied this fairly reflects the trouble and upset they were 
caused here.So, for the reasons set out above, my provisional view is that Im minded to uphold 
this complaint and direct RSA to cover the claim Mrs and Mr J made in connection 
with the stolen money. Im also inclined to direct RSA to pay £100 compensation.
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with any additional 
information they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our 
service's last word on the matter.
Mrs and Mr J didnt respond to my provisional decision. And RSA responded to say it 
had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of the fact neither party has presented any new evidence or 
arguments for my consideration, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in 
my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I still think Mrs and Mr J's complaint should be upheld and that, in addition to the paying their 
stolen money claim, RSA should pay them £100 compensation to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience they experienced while their claim was not met.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should 
pay the claim Mrs and Mr J made in connection with the stolen money. It should also pay 
them £100 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience they experienced 
while their claim was not met.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman