DRN-1665700
 
The complaint
Miss T says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in October 2000.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. 
What happened
In March 2000 Miss T applied for a store card by completing an application form while she 
was shopping. In October 2000, PPI was added to her account following a telephone call.
The policy cost was no more than £1.00 per £100 Miss T owed on her store card. The policy 
wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Miss T couldnt 
work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided life 
cover as well as price and purchase protection. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. Miss T disagreed so the complaint has 
been passed to me for final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Miss Ts representative says that it was added to her account without her knowledge  she 
had no idea she had taken out PPI.. 
Unfortunately, AXA hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call recording. It also hasnt 
been able to provide a copy of the call script used at the time. So I dont know what it may 
have said to Miss T when the policy was sold. But based on what I do know of the sales 
process and given the fact that PPI was added some time after the store card application 
was made, I think Miss T would have understood the policy was optional and chose to take 
it. And it certainly cant have been a condition of being granted credit  shed had the card 
for several months already. And the premiums for the policy would have appeared on her 
statements - so if she hadnt agreed to the policy, I think its reasonable to say she wouldve 
queried the premiums shortly after the policy was added to her account. So taking all this 
into consideration, I think Miss T knew the policy was optional and chose to purchase it 
because she saw some value in it in October 2000.
I dont think AXA advised Miss T to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her, but it still had to provide her with clear information about 
the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out - I cant say that AXA did this.As Ive explained, I dont know exactly what information Miss T received about the policy at 
the time of sale. Even if I accept that she wasnt given clear enough information about the 
policy, I dont think this wouldve affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons 
explained below.
Miss T was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for her to make a claim  such as a 
pre-existing medical condition. She told us she was employed and in good health. Miss T 
says she would only have received statutory sick pay if she was away from work due to 
illness. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this; so it could have proved useful 
to Miss T if she had an accident, became ill or lost her job. She could also have benefitted 
from purchase protection and the additional life cover.
Im not satisfied that AXA made the cost of the policy clear enough for Miss T to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But taking everything into account, I think if Miss 
T had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she wouldve thought the policy 
potentially useful. The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the outstanding balance 
was cleared and the monthly cost does not seem to be unaffordable.
Overall, Im not satisfied that AXA did everything it needed to when it sold the policy to 
Miss T. But I think she knew she had a choice about taking the PPI and I think she would still 
have taken out the cover if shed been properly informed about it. 
I have taken into account Miss Ts comments but these do not change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman