DRN-3520752
The complaint
Mrs S complained that Nationwide Building Society didnt give her the full amount of cash 
she withdrew at a branch counter.
What happened
On 22 February 2021, Mrs S went to her local Nationwide branch. She did this every week to 
withdraw £70. As usual she asked staff to give her £10 and put the other £60 in £10 notes 
into her passbook. Mrs S didnt see the cashier put the money into her book, because the lid 
of the cashiers till was up. She didnt check the money, but put the £10 into her purse, and 
put her passbook straight into a zipped pocket within her handbag.
Mrs S then went to buy petrol using money from the £60 cash which should have been in her 
passbook. There was no money there. Mrs S was shocked. She rang up Nationwide, but the 
branch was closed. She reported the problem to the call centre, and went back to the branch 
the next day. 
Mrs S spoke to the assistant manager, and asked to see the CCTV footage, which he 
refused. He told her it showed the money being put in her book. Mrs S complained.
Nationwide didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. It said its tills were carefully checked, and no 
errors had been found. It said the branch had re-checked the till after Mrs S reported the 
problem, and that the assistant manager had also looked at CCTV and had told Mrs S it 
showed no errors. Mrs S hadnt agreed and had accused the cashier of stealing her money, 
and had said she wanted to see the CCTV immediately.
Nationwide said that this hadnt been possible because any requests for CCTV had to be 
submitted and couldnt be viewed immediately. It said the reason was so that it could remove 
anything showing other customers and other members of staff. Nationwide said that its 
assistant manager had remained polite and professional, and it accepted that the cash 
withdrawal had been undertaken correctly by the cashier and had been handed over to Mrs 
S. It said that as Mrs S had only said she wanted to see the CCTV immediately, and she 
hadnt formally asked for a copy to be requested, the CCTV had been deleted and was no 
longer available.
Mrs S didnt accept Nationwides letter, and asked it to review her complaint. She pointed out 
that the assistant manager hadnt told her that she could ask for a copy of the CCTV, and 
she hadnt known until Nationwides letter. 
Nationwides final response letter said the need to request CCTV might have been 
misunderstood because what shed asked for had been to see it immediately. Nationwide 
said that as Mrs S hadnt made a request within 28 days, the CCTV was no longer available. 
It said that statements had been taken from the branch, so the outcome had been fair.
Mrs S wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.  She set out what had happened, and said 
the assistant manager had made mistakes before. The money hadnt been in her book. Mrs 
S said she should have checked the money had been in her book, but shed never needed 
to, because the female cashiers always did put the cash into her book every week. She said 
she didnt tell lies and wasnt a thief. She asked us to look at the CCTV as she believed 
something wasnt right.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. She said she appreciated the money went 
missing, but couldnt say this was due to anything Nationwide did. She said she had no 
reason to doubt the assistant managers account of the CCTV.
Mrs S didnt agree. She said the assistant manager had withheld the information that she 
could order a copy of the CCTV from Nationwide headquarters, which shed have done 
straightaway if shed known. Shed only found out when shed had Nationwides letter. She 
also said that the assistant manager had previously made numerous mistakes and she didnt 
trust a word he said, and no longer went to that branch. Instead she now drove half an hour 
to a different branch where the service was better. Mrs S said that she wasnt dishonest and 
knew she was right, and Nationwide wasnt listening to a long-standing customer in a fair 
and responsible manner. She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs S was very upset about what happened, and I can understand that. Shes 
explained that she had the same routine every week, and that she didnt check it because it 
had never been wrong before. So its not surprising she was shocked.
Ultimately, I cant say for certain what happened here, because I wasnt present. And the 
CCTV evidence had already been deleted by the time of Nationwides final response letter. 
That was disappointing when Mrs S had made it clear that she wasnt satisfied and would 
continue to dispute the matter. So I cant see it, and I cant rely on it for that reason.
Nationwide has said the cashiers till balanced, and has provided us with two statements: the 
cashiers and the assistant managers:
- The cashier, asked for his evidence two months later, said it was hard to remember 
exactly, but he would have put Mrs Ss money into her passbook as requested. 
- The assistant manager said that hed looked at the CCTV and it had showed the 
cashier counting the money, putting it in the book and handing it to Mrs S. He went 
on to describe Mrs Ss accusations that the cashier had stolen the money, and he 
said that shed aggressively stated that she wanted to go and see the CCTV footage 
straightaway. He said hed refused this because it needed to be requested, and 
because he didnt want Mrs S to be allowed through to the secure area.  
Its clear that the previous difficult history between Mrs S and the assistant manager was a 
factor here. I think it meant that Mrs Ss request, and the assistant managers response, 
were probably both expressed more forcefully than theyd otherwise have been. I note that 
theres no mention in the assistant managers statement that he told Mrs S that if she put in 
a request to head office, she could request the CCTV. But by that stage, things seem to 
have been so acrimonious that there wasnt going to be a resolution in the branch.
Its unfortunate that Mrs S wasnt told, until the final response letter, that she could have 
requested the CCTV from head office. I consider its more likely than not that the assistant 
manager didnt tell her she could. But I cant say for certain that this would necessarily have 
solved the issue. The CCTV would probably have been filmed at a distance and may not 
have shown things in sufficient detail for it to have a bearing on my findings. But ultimately, 
as it was unavailable I have to base my decision on the evidence I do have.Here, this ultimately boils down to two peoples word against one. I realise thats not 
satisfactory for Mrs S, but the recollections of the staff members are consistent. And Mrs S 
unfortunately didnt check the cash in the branch. So its difficult for me to say on balance of 
the available evidence that its more likely than not that the cash was definitely missing when 
Mrs S left the branch after the transaction.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman