DRN-2518843
The complaint
Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy sold to Mr S in 1999 when he applied for a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Mr S disagrees, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision. 
Mr S says his main complaint points are that: 
he has consistently stated that he did not want PPI and was under the impression 
that it was not included in any financial products from Lloyds
the entire credit card application form, apart from the employer details section and 
signature, is not in his hand and was completed by the Lloyds representative
he does not recall the PPI option being selected at the time of the agreement
it may be significant that the tick for PPI is different to every other tick made on the 
form which makes Mr S suspect that it was put on after he had signed the form.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. 
I dont know what mightve been discussed about the PPI. But the application form Mr S 
completed made it clear that it was up to him to say if he wanted PPI and its ticked to 
indicate that he required it. 
I accept that this form may have been largely completed for Mr S by a Lloyds representative. 
But I think its likely that the information on the form probably reflected discussions the 
representative had with Mr S. I think its reasonable to expect that Mr S wouldve looked 
carefully over the completed application before signing to make sure it reflected his wishes. 
And I think its fair to say that by signing the completed application he was indicating he 
agreed with the information on the form. 
Ive taken into account what Mr S said about the way the information was put on the 
application form. But I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me to say that someone 
else filled in the form after hed signed it to say Mr S wanted PPI without him knowing about 
it or agreeing to it, just based on what Mr S says. 
I can completely understand why Mr S told us hed found it difficult to recall all the 
circumstances of this sale as this was a long time ago. But I think its likely that Mr S 
wouldve been able to see at the time that the application form showed that having the PPI 
was optional - and it was added to his account when he chose to take it. 
Also, he wouldve been able to see from his monthly card statements if he was being 
charged for PPI. If PPI hadnt been something he had requested or wanted to pay for, I think 
its likely that Mr S wouldve taken this up with Lloyds at the time. I havent seen anything to 
make me think that happened. 
Although Mr S told us he couldnt remember how the PPI was sold to him and Lloyds 
couldnt confirm this from its records, Lloyds said that it would look at this complaint as if it 
had advised Mr S personally to take out the PPI. Given the lack of information available, 
I think this is the fairest way to look at Mr Ss complaint. It means Lloyds not only had to give 
Mr S important policy information in a clear way. It also had to take reasonable steps to 
make sure the cover it recommended was suitable for Mr S.  
It doesnt look to me as if the policy was unsuitable for Mr S based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. Mr S told us he couldnt recall if he was entitled to sick pay from 
his employer  so its unclear how much sick pay, if any, he couldve relied on being paid or 
for how long. 
PPI wouldve covered him in the event of accident or sickness for up to 12 months per claim 
and it wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay Mr S was entitled to from work. So it looks 
like the policy couldve been useful if Mr S needed to make an accident or sickness claim  
particularly bearing in mind that he mightve had some extra costs if he was ill or disabled.  
The policy wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months per claim in the event Mr S lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work  on top of any redundancy money, providing some 
additional financial help in those circumstances. 
Although Mr S has mentioned having some other sickness and private health cover in place, 
he hasnt been able to provide me with any more details. They may have been the sort of 
policies that paid out a lump sum in the event of illness or a hospital stay for instance  or 
critical illness cover, in other words, insurance that paid out in the event of long term, 
serious, life changing or life limiting conditions. PPI provided a different sort of benefit and 
paid out in different circumstances. Having PPI meant that Mr S could be sure hed be able 
to pay the monthly repayments on his credit card if he couldnt work.  
I've also taken carefully into account that Mr S said he had an endowment policy in place 
when he took out PPI. But this doesnt mean that the PPI wasnt still suitable for him. 
Endowment policies are long term investments  and possibly, from what Mr S has said, his 
may have been linked to a mortgage. Setting up PPI alongside his credit card meant he 
wasnt at risk of having to cash in an endowment policy early  possibly when he couldnt be 
sure of getting a good return. Having PPI meant Mr S could keep any endowments running 
to cash in later or provide him with financial security. 
I dont know if Mr S wouldve always had savings to rely on  and I havent seen enough to 
suggest that Mr S had sufficient cash savings in place that wouldve given him a benefit 
comparable to having PPI. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. After thinking carefully about everything that Mr S has told us about his financial situation at 
the time, I havent seen enough to make me think that its likely he had other insurance that 
provided the same sort of cover or paid out in the same circumstances as the PPI he had 
alongside his credit card. And I dont think that the other ways he mentioned being able to 
rely on were dependable in the same way as a policy that guaranteed his credit card monthly 
repayments would be paid. 
So, looked at overall, I think PPI was worthwhile for him and suitable for Mr S in his situation. 
Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I cant see that he wouldve been affected by any of the policys 
exclusions or limitations. So having better information about things the policy didnt cover 
isnt likely to have put Mr S off taking it out.
I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might pay out 
if Mr S made a claim. But it appears to me that Mr S chose to have the policy when he didnt 
have to  so he seems to have wanted this type of cover at the time, even if hes forgotten 
about this now. Mr S couldve cancelled the policy at any time if his circumstances changed 
or he no longer wanted to pay for the benefits it offered him.
Looked at overall, I think its unlikely that Mr S wouldve made a different decision if clearer 
information had been provided. On balance I think he still wouldve taken out the policy. 
This means I dont find that Mr S has lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds mightve 
done wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman