DRN-4029552
The complaint
Mr Y complained about Reach Financial Services Limited (trading as Cover My). He isnt 
happy about the way it sold a GAP insurance policy to him when he bought his new car.
What happened
Mr Y looked to take out a GAP insurance policy after he bought a new prestige vehicle and 
he settled on a policy through Cover My, an insurance broker. However, a couple of days 
after he took out the policy Cover My wrote to him explaining there had been an error and 
that the policy that was provided for him didnt cover cars as expensive as his. It apologised, 
voided the policy (treated it as it never existed) and refunded his premium in full. 
But Mr Y complained to Cover My as he wanted the policy it had offered and said he could 
only get cover for a lot more than he paid for it. Cover My explained again that there was a 
system error that had allowed his car to be placed on cover when it shouldnt have and as 
Mr Y still wasnt happy he complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr Y but didnt uphold his complaint. Although he 
sympathised with Mr Y he thought Cover My had acted fairly when it realised it had made an 
error. It wrote out to Mr Y within a few days of the policy starting to explain that it had made 
an error which he thought was fair in the circumstances. 
As Mr Y didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ys frustration here as he thought he had got his GAP insurance a lot 
cheaper than it ought to have been. Mr Y would like to keep the policy or for Cover My to pay 
the difference towards a new policy which is a lot higher. But that wouldnt be fair on Cover 
My which has simply made a mistake here. And although I can understand Mr Ys 
disappointment I dont think the cancellation of the policy has adversely affected him in the 
circumstances. Ill explain why.
Cover Mys mistake potentially left Mr Y short of cover if there had been a claim in the few 
days the policy was live and it is likely we would have expected Cover My or the insurer to 
have stepped in had there been a claim, but fortunately there wasnt. I know Mr Y was 
worried that the cancellation of his policy would have an adverse impact on him going 
forward. But our investigator checked with Cover My that there was no record kept of the 
policy being voided so this will have no impact on Mr Y. It was simply a matter for Mr Y to 
gain cover elsewhere if he wished once he was made aware that there had been an error 
with the policy as it didnt cover cars as expensive as his. 
Finally, Ive noticed from Mr Ys latest representations that he has highlighted the policy 
documentation Cover My sent stated the policy limit was above the value of his car. But 
Cover My has gone on to explain that this was an error. I know Mr Y feels this isnt fair and 
that Cover My simply doesnt want to honour the agreement, but I think it simply made a 
mistake. And Mr Y has highlighted that he was aware these policies were generally more 
than double what he paid when he researched getting GAP insurance.
So, although I can understand why Mr Y would like to pay less and that the real cost of the 
policy is a lot higher I wouldnt expect cover to remain in place or for Cover My to pay the 
difference to Mr Y for the correct policy. Given all of this, and the fact Mr Y knew there was a 
significant difference in cost for the cover he needed given he researched the position on a 
comparison website before he took out cover in the first instance, Im not asking Cover My to 
do anything further.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman