DRN-4224406
The complaint
Mrs L complains that QIC Europe Ltd declined a claim she made under home insurance 
policy for damage to her garage.
Reference to QIC includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
As the circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, Ill summarise whats happened.
Mrs L removed a wooden structure attached to her garage and discovered cracking 
to the garage. She said the land on the other side of the nearby property boundary 
had been dug away and undermined the garage structure. She got in touch with QIC 
about it in June 2022.
QIC appointed a surveyor who inspected the problem, agreed it was covered by the 
policy, and offered a settlement for the claim. Mrs L thought this wouldnt solve the 
underlying structural problem and took advice from a structural engineer.
QIC then declined the claim by relying on two policy terms. It said ivy growth on the 
garage meant it was in a poor state of repair and, without the wooden structure, it 
was open on one side. It said neither of these things were covered by the policy.
Mrs L complained in April 2023 because she didnt think it was fair to decline the 
claim. She also said the claim had taken too long, communication had been lacking, 
and QIC had declined the claim after offering her a settlement for it.
QIC maintained the claim should be declined due to the two policy terms. It also said 
the damage hadnt been caused by any of the events covered by the policy.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said QIC should 
continue with the claim and pay Mrs L £200 compensation.
QIC disagreed. It provided photos to highlight the ivy growth and lack of a garage 
door. Mrs L provided photos to show how the garage looked when the wooden 
structure was in place. She said it was removed around February 2022. Our 
investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage to the garage caused in a number of specific ways. The 
relevant ways in this case are landslip and malicious damage.
QICs surveyor said the neighbour had dug up to the garage and this had caused the 
damage, although the neighbour denied they were responsible. The surveyor said 
the cause of damage was ground movement.
Mrs Ls structural engineer said excavations by the neighbour near the boundary had 
undermined the garage and caused damage. They gave advice about how to put the 
problem right.
Mrs L has suggested the cause of the damage is negligence by the neighbour when 
digging down near the boundary line. Negligence, in itself, isnt covered by the policy. 
The damage would need to be caused maliciously or in another specific way set out 
in the policy, for it to be covered.
For damage to be considered malicious, I would usually expect to see evidence that 
it was caused deliberately. Although I dont think that can be ruled out definitively 
here, I havent seen any evidence to show thats likely what happened. Whilst the 
neighbours excavation may have been unwise, that doesnt mean it was malicious.
Landslip is defined in the policy as sudden movement of soil on a slope or gradual 
creep of a slope over a period of time. At the boundary, close to the garage, theres 
a difference in ground level  Mrs Ls property is around 1m higher. There seems to 
agreement between the professionals that the excavation caused ground movement 
at the boundary. So Im satisfied the evidence shows landslip, as defined by the 
policy, caused damage to the garage.
QIC has pointed to two policy terms to decline the claim:
owe will not cover the costs of repairs or replacements, where the costs arise 
though you failing to regularly maintain the buildings properly.
oGarages arent covered at all if theyre open on one or more sides.
Looking at the first term, the photos clearly show ivy growth on the garage. But 
neither professional has suggested the ivy growth is the cause of the damage. So the 
evidence doesnt persuade me that the claim costs have arisen due to a lack of 
maintenance  theyve arisen due to the neighbours excavation. That means it would 
be unfair to decline the claim outright as a result of this policy term.
The second term is relevant because, after removing the wooden structure, the 
garage is open on one side. Taken at face value, I think that means the policy didnt 
cover the garage at all, from the moment the wooden structure was removed. But Im 
not persuaded it would be fair to take the policy term at face value here.
The garage wasnt open originally  the wooden structure was effectively an 
extension that covered the entire front of the garage. When it was removed, that left 
one side open. That happened relatively shortly before the start of the claim. It 
hadnt, for example, been left open for years. And the damage hasnt happened 
because one side became open, for example, if vandals had damaged it due to easy 
access. So, in these particular circumstances, Im not satisfied it would be fair and 
reasonable to rely on the policy term to decline the claim.Overall, that means Im satisfied the damage was caused in a way covered by the 
policy  and it wouldnt be fair to decline the claim based on the two policy terms QIC 
has raised. As a result, QIC should now accept the claim. The remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy will still apply.
QIC will need to take steps to settle the claim fairly. I know Mrs L is concerned about 
the stability of the ground, as well as the damage to garage. The structural engineer 
recommended how to provide stability, including a retaining wall. Other options may 
be available, and it will be open to QIC to consider the appropriate options. They will 
be influenced by the extent to which the neighbour is prepared to cooperate.
Mrs L should be aware that QIC cant force the neighbour to pay for any work and/or 
allow QIC to carry out any work on their property  although QIC is entitled to ask the 
neighbour to do these things if it considers that appropriate.
Mrs Ls complaint is also about the way the claim has been handled. At the time QIC 
responded to her complaint, it had been ongoing for around ten months. That seems 
a very long time to inspect the damage and make a settlement offer, then decline the 
claim based on information that could have been known from an early stage. Its 
disappointing to see an offer be made and then withdrawn in these circumstances. 
And it seems Mrs L has had to chase QIC many times for updates during the claim.
Overall, Im satisfied the way the claim was handled caused some avoidable distress 
and inconvenience to Mrs L. I think the £200 compensation suggested by our 
investigator is reasonable in the circumstances.
If Mrs L would like QIC to reimburse the cost of her structural engineers advice, 
shes entitled to share the invoice with it and Id expect it to consider paying.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Accept the claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman