DRN-4027053
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint against St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) is about several
issues. In summary, he has complained about the poor level of service he received in 
respect of a potential transfer of his defined benefits pension scheme; a poor level of overall 
service, including provision of incorrect information and lack of communication. And he is 
unhappy with St. Jamess Places Partner continuing to receive remuneration relating to his
investments.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 7 March 2023. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint were set out in that decision. But to recap, Mr P had 
conversations about the transfer of his then employers defined benefit occupational pension 
scheme in early 2020. Hed been referred to his SJPs partners colleague who specialised in 
advising on defined benefit transfers. The specialist wrote to Mr P on 30 September 2020 
recommending not to go ahead with the transfer. He said this was because he was still an 
active member of the scheme and relatively young in respect of his preferred retirement age.
A note from a meeting held on 16 November 2020 between Mr P and his SJP partner
recorded that Mr P remained keen to review the position with regards to a potential DB 
(Defined Benefit) transfer. However it said there was no point in getting a Cash Equivalent 
Transfer Value (CETV) from the scheme until the advisers were in a position to implement a 
transfer. It said the advisers would need to agree a likely timeline to revisit the matter and 
February/March 2021? was noted.
Mr P sent his SJP partner a pension statement of entitlement on 5 December 2020, as hed
left his employment. He asked about the next steps. His SJP partner replied to say theyd
already discussed the situation. Mr P didnt agree theyd had discussions using the last
statement, and sent another e-mail to his SJP partner on 11 December 2020 saying the
statement confirmed he was no longer an active member of the scheme and that some of
the responses on the topic had been of a quite condescending nature and not what I
believe I should be receiving as a client using a top IFA firm.
I have requested a clear picture on likely CETV & options. Just because SJP have decided
to wait until March, the fact is I am likely to be back in employment in January and thus don't
understand why a further delay is required when that is confirmed.
Mr P subsequently contacted his SJP partner three times in the lead up to Christmas 2020.
Mr P had a call with SJP on 4 January 2021 and he subsequently e-mailed it setting out
issues hed got about the level of service hed received. These included;
Removal of a financial planning forecasting tool
Incorrect figures provided by his SJP partner
A lack of reasoning why the defined benefits transfer couldnt be explored in January 
2021.
Mr P updated SJP in January 2021 saying hed had a productive call with his new SJP
partner and his defined benefit transfer had progressed since they had spoken.
SJP investigated Mr Ps concerns and sent its response to him on 6 May 2021. It said it
understood Mr P was unhappy with the communication provided by his SJP partner and the
confusing information given in relation to the DB transfer. SJP didnt uphold the complaint. It
said Mr P had been informed of the reasons for not making a recommendation (he was still
an active member of the scheme, his age and because his future employment plans at that
time were unknown). It said whilst Mr P had left employment later in the year, the specialist
transfer adviser wasnt happy to make a recommendation to transfer and give up his
guaranteed final salary benefits until Mr P had settled into his new role.
SJP apologised for the time taken to deal with Mr Ps complaint and offered him £250 for this
delay, and £250 for the trouble and upset this has caused.
Mr P replied to say SJPs response didnt address all of his concerns. This included the
approach of the SJP partner and his lack of apology, the partner providing false and
inaccurate information about his portfolio and investments; providing assumptions about his
portfolio knowing the information they were based on were inaccurate; and no
acknowledgment or apology had been provided for the immediate withdrawal of license
access to a financial planning forecasting tool.
SJP replied to say it acknowledged Mr Ps complaint had continued over an extended period
of time, and as a gesture of goodwill to attempt to resolve matters it would offer him £1,000.
Mr P referred his complaint to us. And Mr P also subsequently raised another complaint with 
SJP. This included a complaint about his previous SJP partner still benefiting from fees from 
his portfolio even though hed clearly told SJP he wouldnt remain as its client if that 
continued to be the case. He said he wanted a clear picture of all the fees paid to the 
previous partner from December 2020.
Mr P subsequently requested confirmation of all the fees hed paid to SJP and what had
been allocated to his previous SJP partner. He also wanted details of what had been paid to
the SJP partner since hed instructed SJP in January 2021, and he said that the partner
shouldnt benefit from his investments in any way.
On 4 August 2022 SJP responded to Mr P saying that when Mr P asked it to arrange for a
different partner to take over the servicing of his investments, the new partner agreed to do
so and had discussed the terms of the transfer with Mr Ps original SJP partner. SJP said
any agreement made between its partners with regard to remuneration was a private matter,
and it wouldnt be able to comment on that issue. It confirmed the servicing of Mr Ps
investments was transferred in line with his wishes at the time.
The letter addressed Mr Ps other concerns about the online system displaying incorrect
information. SJP offered Mr P a further £400 for the delays in providing its response and
inconvenience caused.
Our investigator considered Mr Ps complaint. She said it was clear that Mr P had a number
of concerns about the service provided by SJP. And in particular with the conduct of Mr Ps
original SJP partner. She noted that on some occasions professional relationships didnt
work out. And that SJP had arranged for a new partner to assist Mr P.
The investigator said the pension transfer specialists role was to identify whether a transfer
was in Mr Ps best interests, and wasnt just to simply facilitate what he thought Mr P wanted
without any critical thinking. She thought the specialist had done that.However she said it was clear that Mr P wanted to revisit his options when hed left his
employer. And she didnt think Mr P had been given an explanation of why he needed to wait
until March 2021. So the investigator said she understood why Mr P was unhappy as it was
something he was keen to look into.
SJP had said the issues that SJPs partner had experienced with data feeds was outside of
his control. However whilst acknowledging that systems could sometimes fail and provide
inaccurate information, the investigator said she thought Mr P should have been made
aware that the information he was being given may not have been correct.
The investigator had asked SJP why Mr Ps access to the financial planning forecasting tool
had been blocked. SJP had said the tool wasnt something that SJP provided to clients, but
was something the partner had arranged for Mr P on a bespoke basis at no extra cost. It had
said the tool wasnt a standard benefit.
The investigator said Mr P had benefitted from the tool for some time. So she understood he
would have been inconvenienced when he could no longer use it. She thought the partner
should have forewarned Mr P that his access to it would be blocked. However she also didnt
think it was unreasonable for the partner to no longer offer access to it once he wasnt acting
for Mr P.
In respect of the fees paid to the partner, the investigator said Mr P had been receiving
regular services relating to his investments from the partner for a number of years. And
when Mr P opted for those investments and products hed agreed to the various charges
applicable to them. The investigator said she thought the commission arrangements
between SJP and between its partners was its own commercial decision, and this wasnt
something this service could tell them to change.
Overall, the investigator thought that SJP could have provided a better service. She
understood Mr Ps frustration caused by SJP removing the financial planning tool, regardless
of the reason for it, providing inaccurate information, and Mr P having to chase SJP for
replies. However taking everything into account and considering its impact on Mr P, the
investigator concluded that SJPs offer of £1,400 in total was fair in all the circumstances.
In my provisional decision I said Id come to the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator, and largely for the same reasons.
When responding to the investigators assessment Mr P had said he didnt think all parts of 
his complaint had been addressed. I said whilst the investigator might not have specifically 
referred to every single point raised, I thought what was material was that her conclusion 
was there had been some failings in the level of service provided by SJP, but that overall, 
taking into account their likely impact on Mr P, she thought SJPs offer of £1,400 was fair in 
all the circumstances.
I said the £1,400 was at the higher end of what wed normally award for similar failings in 
similar circumstances. And that having carefully considered the matter, I agreed with the 
investigator that £1,400 was fair in the particular circumstances.
I said one of the issues that Mr P had complained about was that he was unhappy with his 
original St.Jamess Places Partner continuing to receive remuneration relating to his 
investments. Like the investigator, I said I thought how commission was paid within SJP and 
between its partners was an internal matter for SJP  albeit I understood the reasons why Mr 
P wouldnt want the partner to continue to receive commissions given the tone of the 
partners communications near the end of the relationship.I noted Mr P had said he would have invested differently if hed known the previous partner 
was still receiving fees. And Mr P had also raised another complaint regarding a lack of 
client service from December 2019, despite him continuing to pay ongoing adviser charges.
SJP had set up a new complaint to consider this issue, which I understood also related to Mr
Ps wifes investments with SJP. I said I thought the issue of whether Mr P would have acted
differently was better dealt with in Mr Ps complaint about the failure to provide an ongoing
service despite paying fees. I thought deciding whether Mr P would have acted differently, 
and when, would depend on a number of factors, including the structure of the charges on 
the investments that have been made over time, and whether early withdrawal charges 
would be applied and their amounts. I said I thought Mr P appreciated this as hed been 
seeking clarification of the ongoing charges and exit penalties that might be applied if he 
moved his investments.
I said I thought that issue was better considered in light of whether SJP did or didnt provide
the service that Mr P said he was paying for, and consideration of what was appropriate in
respect of those charges/Mr Ps position if it was found that they werent. So I said I hadnt 
considered that issue in the provisional decision.
Accordingly, I said my provisional decision was that St. James's Place Wealth Management 
Plcs offer of £1,400 was fair in all the circumstances.
I asked Mr P and SJP to let me have any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me 
to consider before I made my final decision.
Mr P said he had nothing further to add, subject to clarification on what issues were 
outstanding and what ongoing items required review. 
SJP said it had nothing further to add.
I e-mailed Mr P to provide the clarification hed requested on 16 March 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision 
as outlined above. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision as above, my final decision is that 
St.James's Place Wealth Management Plcs offer of £1,400 is fair in all the circumstances. I 
therefore order St.James's Place Wealth Management Plc to pay Mr P £1,400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman