DRN-3918781
The complaint
Mr D and Mr I complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC has provided misleading information 
about associated rewards to their mortgage and theyve lost out as a result.
What happened
Mr D and Mr I applied for a rate switch in May 2022, selecting a 10-year fixed rate mortgage 
with Barclays. The information provided with the rate switch included a document titled, 
Your guide to switching and managing your mortgage online and this included information 
about a reward available to Barclays customers if they had a current account  paid through 
Barclays Blue Rewards scheme. This said if you have a mortgage with Barclays, itll pay £5 
per month as a reward.
The information in the rate switch guide was incorrect and the reward paid for having both a 
mortgage and current account with Barclays was £3 per month not £5. Mr I complained to 
Barclays about the misinformation within the literature supplied. He didnt think it was right or 
fair that Barclays was providing customers with misleading information.
Mr D and Mr I were not a member of the Blue Reward Scheme when the mortgage switch 
was applied for and were members of a different scheme which stopped them from being 
eligible for the Blue Rewards. But Mr I said he intended to cancel the membership he had 
with the other scheme to allow him to join the Blue Reward Scheme. 
Mr D and Mr I feel theyve lost out because of Barclays. The wrong information led them to 
believe theyd be able to earn £600 of rewards over the life of their mortgage. As this benefit 
has reduced to £3 per month, theyd only be able to earn £360 over the life of the mortgage 
and think Barclays should pay them the difference as a goodwill gesture. It will also help to 
compensate them for the inconvenience and time taken in needing to notify it of the mistake 
in its literature. 
Barclays looked at the complaint and apologised for the misleading information and thanked 
Mr I for bringing it to their attention, but it didnt think it needed to do anything else in addition 
to the apology.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and said that she didnt think Barclays needed to do 
anything else. She felt Mr D and Mr I hadnt lost out as they werent members of the reward 
scheme at the time the new mortgage was arranged, so they wouldnt have earnt this benefit 
immediately. She accepted they intended to sign up to the scheme, but until this had 
happened they werent eligible to earn the benefit. 
She said the product literature was generic and not specific to Mr D and Mr I, giving only 
indicative rates of the amount payable under the scheme. And as the mortgage switch was 
applied for ahead of the information about the rewards being sent out, she didnt think it had 
any bearing on their decision to take out the mortgage. Overall, she wasnt persuaded that it 
was reasonable to ask Barclays to do anything else beyond the apology it had already 
provided for the error. 
Mr D and Mr I disagreed with the outcome. They feel a goodwill gesture for the time lost 
notifying it of the error would be fair. They also feel Barclays tried to mislead our investigator 
about their eligibility for the Blue Reward Scheme. Because of this they asked that the 
complaint be passed on for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand Mr D and Mr I will be disappointed by 
this, but Ill explain why.
It isnt disputed that Barclays provided product information that was incorrect. Mr D and Mr I 
realised this and wanted to provide notice of the error as well as express their dissatisfaction 
at being provided information that was wrong. What is disputed is the level of distress and 
inconvenience and whether a payment for this is fair and reasonable.
As Ive said, Mr D and Mr I realised the information theyd been sent was wrong. So I think it 
is reasonable to say there was no loss of expectation, as soon after receiving the product 
information, they let Barclays know this contained an error and the reward amount had 
dropped from £5 to £3 per month. I understand they provided this notice and raised the 
complaint by taking the time to speak with Barclays about it. This will have caused some 
inconvenience, but Ive not seen anything that demonstrates this level of inconvenience was 
above the level it is reasonable to expect is needed when raising a complaint. It isnt fair and 
reasonable to expect that every error is met with a goodwill payment and I think this is an 
example of when an apology is sufficient.
Im not persuaded the misinformation caused a loss of expectation and as our investigator 
said, the product information was generic and not a specific quote to what Mr D and Mr I 
could expect to receive. Mr D and Mr I completed the application for the product switch 
ahead of this being provided, so I think its reasonable to say this didnt impact their decision 
to take the mortgage. 
Overall, Ive seen nothing to indicate theyve lost out and dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to ask that Barclays makes a goodwill payment in addition to the apology it has 
already provided.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr D and Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman