DRN-2081722
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy at how Resolved Claims LTD (RC) dealt with his claim for mis-sold solar 
panels.
What happened
In 2016, Mr C instructed RC to make a solar panel mis-selling claim. RC submitted the claim, 
which was initially rejected. So RC escalated it to the Financial Ombudsman Service, where 
the claim was successful in 2020.
Mr C has complained that RC took four years to resolve the claim when they advertised that 
they aim to resolve claims within nine months. And hes unhappy that RC didnt keep him 
updated. He also said that he liaised with the Financial Ombudsman Service, providing the 
information and doing the work that resulted in the claim being successful. So he doesnt 
think RC are entitled to their fee.
Our investigator said that that RC had progressed the claim without undue delay and 
escalated it quickly once the finance company rejected it. He didnt think RC could be held 
responsible for the time the Financial Ombudsman Service took to resolve the complaint; 
and he didnt think they did anything wrong by not providing regular updates when there was 
no update to give.
The investigator also said that its not unusual for the Financial Ombudsman Service to ask 
for more information, and Mr C wouldve had to provide to them directly, or send it to RC to 
pass on for him. Because of this, the investigator said RC had done what was expected of 
them, and they were entitled to charge their fee.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He says that RC did very little to progress the claim 
once itd been sent to the Financial Ombudsman Service (whove said they had no dealing 
with RC while the claim was being investigated). He feels the lack of input and updates from 
RC means their fees are disproportionate to the work they have actually undertaken and 
that he did the winning work. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Ive seen that Mr C instructed RC to act for him in May 2016. The terms and conditions he 
agreed to meant that RC would charge 29% plus VAT of any compensation received. And 
while RC said we hope to have provided all of our services within 9 months of the 
agreement commencing, Ive seen nothing to show me that they guaranteed Mr Cs claim 
would be completed within this timescale.
The evidence shows that, although RC received the instructions and claim documents from 
Mr C in May 2016, they didnt receive the witness statement until January 2017 (almost nine 
months after the agreement started). And they were unable to submit the claim without this. 
RC submitted the claim in February 2017, and this was rejected in May 2017. RC then 
escalated the claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
It took until early 2020 for the Financial Ombudsman Service to complete their investigation, 
for this to be accepted by all parties, and for Mr C to receive his compensation. This was 
something that was outside of RCs control, and they wouldnt be able to influence how long 
the process took. So I cant hold them responsible for any delays. 
Mr C has sent in an email from the Financial Ombudsman Services investigator, dated 8 
April 2020, which says I havent had any contact with {RC} about your case. But Ive also 
seen that RC submitted the claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service on Mr Cs behalf in 
May 2017. And they said they were representing Mr C in the claim. 
The Claims Management Ombudsman is part of, but separate to, the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. So I cant see why the Financial Ombudsman Service didnt deal with RC as Mr Cs 
representative. But I have seen that the Financial Ombudsman Service acknowledged 
receipt of the claim from RC the claim in July 2017. This acknowledgement, and the email of 
8 April 2020, both confirm the same complaint reference number. As its the same claim, I 
cant agree that RC didnt have any dealings with the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Based on what Ive seen, RC prepared and submitted the claim, and escalated this to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service when the finance company rejected it. This was the work 
they were instructed to do. So theyre entitled to charge their fee.
RC charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. 
This means any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. But, where a 
claim was successful, RCs fee may be more or less than the value of the work they. This is 
the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. So just because RCs fee is higher 
than the value of the work they did for Mr C, this doesnt make their fee unjustified.
Once the matter is with the Financial Ombudsman Service, there is very little (if anything) for 
RC to do. But I disagree with the investigator that this doesnt mean they shouldnt have kept 
Mr C updated. While I wouldnt have expected a monthly update, I wouldve expected an 
update at least every six months  even if this was just your claim is still being considered. 
However, I dont think the failure to keep Mr C updated means that RC cant charge their full 
fee  the work they did on the claim took place before the claim was escalated to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. And because Mr C was in contact with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service himself, then RCs failure to keep him updated didnt cause him any 
detriment. So I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Mr C disputes RCs fees, and has offered a lower amount to settle his account, which RC 
have rejected. As RC are entitled to charge their fee, theyre also entitled to collect it. So I 
dont think theyve done anything wrong by not accepting Mr Cs offer. Nor do I think theyve 
done anything wrong by telling Mr C theyre going to take legal action to recover their fee.My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Resolved Claims 
LTD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman