DRN-2337224
The complaint
Mr G has complained about One Insurance Limiteds handling of his motor insurance policy.
Reference to One Insurance includes their agents.
Background
Mr G took out a policy with One Insurance via a comparison website. During the application 
process the comparison site asked if Mr G had any previous motor accidents, claims or 
losses in the past 5 years, no matter who was at fault or if a claim was made. Mr G 
answered no.
Soon after the policy started, One Insurance found out Mr G had two driving incidents in the 
previous five years that he hadnt disclosed. One of those was whats known as notification 
only meaning an incident happened but no claim was made. The second incident resulted in 
a non-fault marker on Mr Gs insurance record.
One Insurance recalculated Mr Gs premium to factor in the non-fault claim. That resulted in 
an additional charge of £192, including around £60 in fees. But the fees were later waived, 
meaning Mr G had to pay an additional premium of £130.67, which was added to his 
monthly instalments.
Mr G didnt think the additional premium was fair. He brought his complaint to us.
My colleagues provisional decision 
On 10 August 2020 another ombudsman issued a provisional decision. Ive included the 
relevant extracts from his decision below. He said
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im intending to uphold it. 
Ill explain why.
One Insurance have suggested that what Mr G did by not disclosing the previous incident 
amounted to, what is known in the insurance industry as, a careless misrepresentation. And 
theres specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers may do in such a situation. It says that insurers 
may:
cancel the policy; or
tell the consumer that they will settle any future claims on a proportionate basis (or 
apply other exclusions or limitations it would otherwise have applied). But if the 
consumer isn't happy with that approach, they can cancel the policy themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer to simply charge an additional premium, although we think 
its fair for the insurer to give the policyholder the option of them paying the additional 
premium [which would enable] the insurer to then settle any claims in full instead of settling 
claims proportionately. But that can only happen if the policyholder is happy with that.
But while CIDRA gives the insurer the option of cancelling the policy where there has been a 
careless misrepresentation, we think its fair for an insurer to explain to the policyholder 
theres a problem and give them the option of paying the additional premium in order to keep 
the policy going or otherwise to cancel the policy themselves. Thats because the insurer 
cancelling the policy will have serious consequences on the policyholder because they will 
have to declare it when they want to take out insurance later on.
Under CIDRA, Mr G had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. To 
assess whether or not Mr G took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation I have to 
look to see if One Insurances question was clear. Ive reproduced the question above and I 
think it was clear enough for Mr G to have declared the past incident that resulted in a 
non-fault claim. So, I feel Mr G did make, whats referred to in CIDRA as, a qualifying 
misrepresentation. That would mean that One Insurance only had available to them the 
remedies under CIDRA. And as imposing an additional premium isnt one of those remedies, 
One Insurance shouldnt have charged Mr G £130.67 without otherwise giving him the option 
of cancelling his policy without penalty. As One Insurance didn't do that and Mr Gs policy 
has since lapsed, they can't give Mr G that option now. I therefore intend to require 
One Insurance to refund that amount to Mr G together with simple interest at a rate of 8% a 
year from the date he paid it until the refund is made.
I understand this incident has been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr G, so I 
intend to require One Insurance to pay him £100 compensation to address that.
One Insurance didn't reply to my colleagues provisional decision. Mr G agreed with it but felt 
that One Insurance should pay more compensation. He thought a figure of around £150 
would be reasonable.
As my colleague wasnt in a position to issue a final decision the case was passed to me to 
consider.
My provisional decision
 
I took a fresh look at the matter and issued my provisional findings on 27 October 2020. Ive 
copied the relevant extract from that decision below. I said:
Having had the benefit of reading my colleagues provisional decision I agree with his 
conclusions for the reasons he set out. And, with the exception of the amount of 
compensation, neither Mr G nor One Insurance have disagreed with those provisional 
findings. So I see no reason to depart from my colleagues provisional decision. But I will 
address Mr Gs comments that the compensation sum should be increased.
Mr G said that in order to afford the increased premium he's had to spend more time in work. 
So he thinks One Insurance should compensate him for that. But if Mr G had appropriately 
answered the question about whether or not hed had claims in the preceding five years then 
its likely he would have had to pay a higher premium anyway. Thats because most insurers 
would have considered the previous driving incidents and decided those increased the risk 
Mr G posed as a policyholder and quoted higher premiums based on the higher risk. So 
while I think that the manner in which One Insurance imposed the additional premium on 
Mr G caused him some distress and inconvenience I don't think it needs to compensate him 
for any additional time hes spent in work. And I'm satisfied £100 compensation is 
reasonable in the circumstances. That's because it's in line with awards we'd make in other 
cases of similar seriousness.Neither Mr G nor One Insurance provided any further comments.
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr G nor One Insurance objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to 
change it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require One Insurance Limited to:
 Refund Mr G £130.67 together with simple interest at a rate of 8% a year from the 
date he paid it until the refund is made1.
 Pay Mr G £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
One Insurance should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr G 
has accepted my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest 
on that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If One Insurance considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr G how much theyve taken off. They should also give him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.