DRN-3819224
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly refused a claim they 
made on their travel insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have travel insurance as part of a package of services provided by their bank. 
The insurance is underwritten by UKI, and it was responsible for assessing the claim.
Mr and Mrs P were due to go on holiday. A day or so before, a member of their family sadly 
died, and Mr and Mrs P had to cancel their holiday. They were told by the booking agent 
they were too late to do that without losing all the money theyd paid. So Mr and Mrs P 
approached UKI to make a claim on their insurance.
UKI said it wouldnt meet the claim as it said the family member whod died wasnt what it 
defined as a close relation in the policy terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs P appealed this 
decision but UKI didnt change its stance, although it did offer Mr and Mrs P £50 
compensation for the length of time it had taken to re-assess the claim.
Mr and Mrs P dont think this is fair. Mrs P says her relation was like a father to her and UKI 
should accept this and meet the claim. She says other family members going on the same 
holiday have made successful claims through their insurers and UKI should meet theirs. Mr 
and Mrs P rejected the £50 compensation.
We were asked to review the complaint, but our investigator didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. He checked the terms and conditions in the policy and noted that the family 
member who died didnt fall into the definitions used by UKI  so he couldnt say UKI was 
unfair when it relied on them to reach a decision on whether to pay the claim. He thought the 
compensation for a delay of about a week in reviewing the claim was reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid I cant uphold this complaint.
Im very sorry that Mrs P lost a family member that she was close to, especially when it was 
so unexpected.
In these circumstances Id expect UKI to pay a claim if it had evidence that the family 
member fell into the list of relationships it specifies as close. 
Ive checked the policy and Im satisfied that Mrs Ps relative didnt fall into the list of close 
relationships where UKI would refund the cost of the holiday. I cant say UKI was unfair 
when it relied on the list to decide if it should meet the claim.
We did ask Mrs P if she had any evidence that showed her relationship with the relative who 
died could be interpreted in line with the list in the policy. We did that because Mrs P has told 
us how close they were and that the deceased had been like a father to her. Unfortunately 
shes been unable to provide anything that persuades me I should ask UKI to alter its 
decision.
UKI did review its decision when Mr and Mrs P complained, which is what Id expect it to do. 
Its acknowledged this took longer than it should have, and that having to wait an extra week 
would have caused some distress to Mr and Mrs P. I think £50 is a reasonable amount to 
make up for this, given Mr and Mrs P had previously been told the claim wouldnt be paid, 
and their expectations hadnt been wrongly raised.
I do appreciate that some other members of the family have been able to make successful 
claims when this holiday was cancelled. But I can only reach my decision on the specific 
circumstances of this complaint, so I cant take those other claims into account.
Without more substantial evidence I cannot uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman