DRN-2895141
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement
with Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance (Close Brothers).  
What happened
I issued provisional decisions on this complaint in June 2021. Extracts from those provisional 
decisions are set out below.
Mrs J has been represented by her son for much of this complaint but for ease and because
Mrs J is named on the credit agreement, I will refer to her throughout this decision.
What happened
I issued my first provisional decision on this complaint in June 2021. An extract from that
provisional decision is set out below.
I know it will disappoint Close Brothers, but I agree with the investigators opinion in the
main. However, I dont agree with the refund the investigator suggested Close Brothers pay
for lack of use, so I am issuing this provisional decision to explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs J acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our
service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car,
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs J. The car here was about
eleven years old and had already completed about 94,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable
person would expect it to have quite a bit of wear and tear.
But I dont think a reasonable person would expect to inherit a car of this age and mileage if
it had a significant oil leak that meant the car was requiring frequent topping up of large
amounts of oil, and that led to significant engine issues in the first few months of ownership.
As the fault was identified within the first six months of ownership the relevant legislation
explains that we should presume the fault was present when the car was supplied unless the
business can demonstrate otherwise.
Im not persuaded that the independent inspection Close Brothers commissioned does
demonstrate the oil leak, that has led to the head gasket and piston damage, wasnt present
when the car was supplied. Thats because the independent inspector has explained that the
oil leak was long standing. Mrs J had only had the car for five months when the
independent inspector confirmed that the leak was present, and I think its fair to say that a
long standing oil leak would refer to one that was older, and perhaps significantly older,
than five months.
Ive noted that the MOT completed in January 2018 has an advisory for an oil leak. Ive not
seen evidence that leak was ever repaired so that advisory, as the investigator suggested,
may be further evidence that the oil leak pre-dated the supply of the car to Mrs J.
I do, however; note Close Brothers comments that a more recent MOT didnt highlight an oil
leak and that the January 2018 MOT pre-dated the supply of the car by a year and a half.
Although that doesnt eliminate that evidence I accept it does weaken it, but I think the
independent inspectors comments about the long standing leak and Mrs Js testimony that
she was told to keep topping the oil up, is sufficient and compelling anyway and that it
suggests, on balance, the oil leak was present at the point of supply and the current faults
were therefore developing at that point.
So, Im persuaded that the oil leak was probably present when the car was supplied to Mrs J
and it seems more likely than not that that oil leak has been the cause of the fault with the
blown head gasket and piston ring wear that Mrs J now complains of.
The independent inspector thought that contamination from the oil leak had probably caused
the thermostat gasket to fail. As Im persuaded that oil leak was present when the car was
supplied, I think its fair to suggest the thermostat gasket failure was also something that was
either present or developing at that time and should be something Close Brothers put right
for Mrs J.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation allows a business one chance to repair a fault that is present when a
car is supplied to a consumer. Close Brothers havent had that opportunity so they should
collect the car and repair the oil leak and the head gasket and piston ring wear Mrs J has
had identified. Theyll also need to repair the thermostat gasket as thats something Im
persuaded has been caused by a failure that was present when the car was supplied.
Close Brothers will need to investigate the cause of the tapping sound that the inspector
identified. If there is evidence that fault was most likely to have been present when the car
was supplied to Mrs J they should repair it. 
Mrs J has provided information about losses she and her family have incurred as a result of 
the faults with the car. Some of these issues are of a confidential nature and Ill not expand 
on them here. I was sorry to hear about those problems, but I dont think it would be fair to 
suggest there is sufficient evidence that they have been experienced as a result of the failure
of the car or that Mrs J has made sufficient efforts to mitigate any consequential losses. Im
therefore not persuaded to ask Close Brothers to refund any consequential losses.
I do think there is evidence that Mrs Js use of this car will have been impaired. The
investigator suggested that the business refund 10% of all payments Mrs J has made but I
dont think that goes far enough. Mrs J has confirmed she hasnt had use of the car since theindependent inspection was completed so its not fair shes been paying finance instalments
during that time. Close Brothers should therefore refund all finance instalments Mrs J has
paid since the independent inspection on 27 December 2019 and if instalments havent been
received for this period they should waive them.
When the car was inspected in December 2019 the inspector noted the mileage was
100,547 and that Mrs J had therefore completed about 6,500 miles in it in the first five to six
months of the agreement. Thats in excess of average mileage so I think there is evidence
that Mrs J had reasonable use of the car up to the point of failure. Im therefore expecting to
ask Close Brothers to refund any instalments paid since the car failed but they neednt
refund any of the money Mrs J paid towards her finance agreement before then.
Mrs J has been inconvenienced by these matters. Shes had to take the car to be diagnosed
and shes had to escalate her complaint to this service when I think it could have been
resolved earlier. In those circumstances I think Close Brothers should pay her £150 to
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs J has explained that shes had to top up large amounts of oil, frequently. She wouldnt
have had to do that if the oil leak wasnt present. So, Close Brothers should refund any
money she has spent on oil or getting the oil topped up, on provision of receipts from Mrs J.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Close
Brother Limited to:
collect the car and repair the oil leak, blown head gasket, damaged piston rings 
and thermostat gasket at no cost to Mrs J;
investigate the cause of the engine tapping noise. Rectify at no cost to Mrs J if 
Close Brothers cant demonstrate the problem was unlikely to have been present 
at the point of supply;
pay Mrs J £150 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes
experienced;
refund, or waive, all finance instalments due since the car broke down on 27
December 2019 and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement;
refund any money Mrs J has spent on oil or getting the oil topped up, on provision 
of receipts from Mrs J;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Js credit file in relation 
to this issue.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs J asked me to consider reimbursing the cost of the car being clamped; 50% of the
monthly finance instalments and her deposit.
Ive explained why I dont think it would be fair to tell Close Brothers to refund any
consequential losses here and Ive considered Mrs Js request to have 50% of her
instalments refunded but I think, for the reasons Ive already given, that the refund of
instalments I proposed in my provisional decision is more appropriate.Close Brothers wanted me to reconsider my decision. They thought I had placed too much
emphasis on the inspectors comments that the foil leak was long standing and hadnt
considered the car was 12 years old at the time and had completed 6,000 additional miles
over the five months Mrs J had been in possession of it.
Ive thought about what Close Brothers said but it hasnt changed my view of this complaint.
Thats because I think I had considered those issues. In my provisional decision I explained:
The car here was about eleven years old and had already completed about 94,000 miles.
So, I think a reasonable person would expect it to have quite a bit of wear and tear and But
I dont think a reasonable person would expect to inherit a car of this age and mileage if
it had a significant oil leak that meant the car was requiring frequent topping up of large
amounts of oil, and that led to significant engine issues in the first few months of ownership.
But Close Brothers also explained that due to the time that had passed since the complaint
has been with our service they had taken steps to collect the car and sell it at auction. They
said this was due to Mrs J abandoning the car.
Mrs J wasnt aware of that. She explained she had SORN the car off the road and had left it
parked behind a family members house. She also explained that the car wasnt insured. She
was disappointed that Close Brothers had made no attempt to contact her to explain the 
actions they
had taken.
I wasnt aware of Close Brothers recovery actions either and as theyve now sold the car at 
auction it means they are no longer able to get it repaired as I had suggested in my 
provisional decision.
So, Ive thought about how to resolve matters for Mrs J now.
The car can no longer be repaired so Im suggesting Close Brothers allow Mrs J to reject it 
and that they end the finance agreement.
Theyll need to refund the deposit Mrs J has paid and they should add interest to that deposit
as Mrs J has been deprived of that money.
Theyll also need to refund (or waive if not paid) any finance instalments Mrs J has made
since the car broke down on 27 December 2019 as Mrs J has had no use of the car since
then. They should add interest to that refund too; for the same reasons.
Close Brothers will also need to refund any deposit Mrs J has paid as shes been deprived of 
that money.
The finance agreement required Mrs J to
3.2 You must insure and keep the Goods insured at all times under and 5.3  you must 
keep the Goods in your possession or control.
Mrs J has explained that the car wasnt insured and she wasnt aware it had been seized by
Close Brothers so I dont think she could suggest it was still in her possession or under her
control. So, I think it was reasonable for Close Brothers to repossess the car as the terms of 
the finance agreement allowed, the terms had been breached and I think it was reasonable 
to
consider that their car had been abandoned.
But I dont think it was reasonable not to tell this service or Mrs J that they had repossessedthe goods whilst this process was in place.
I therefore think there has been some additional distress and inconvenience caused by
Close Brothers actions. The final decision has been delayed and it would have been 
distressing to have found the car was no longer where Mrs J thought shed left it. I think the 
compensation I was expecting to ask Close Brothers should therefore be increased to £500.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Close
Brothers limited to:
refund any deposit Mrs J has paid and add 8% simple interest per year to that 
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mrs J £500 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes
experienced;
refund, or waive, all finance instalments due since the car broke down on 27
December 2019 and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement;
refund any money Mrs J has spent on oil or getting the oil topped up, on provision 
of receipts from Mrs J;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Js credit file in relation 
to this issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs J accepted my second provisional decision but provided receipts for consequential 
losses she wanted me to consider. I explained in my provisional decision that, I dont think it 
would be fair to suggest there is sufficient evidence that they (the consequential losses) 
have been experienced as a result of the failure of the car or that Mrs J has made sufficient 
efforts to mitigate any consequential losses. Im therefore not persuaded to ask Close 
Brothers to refund any consequential losses.
Close Brothers also accepted my second provisional decision. But they thought the 
additional compensation was a little unreasonable. They explained their reasoning behind 
repossessing the car. They said that Mrs J had been unresponsive, and theyd only had 
sporadic contact with her son. They said they had decided to repossess the car to reduce 
any further detriment and reduce the financial liability.
Whilst I understand Close Brothers reasoning I still dont think it was reasonable not to 
inform Mrs J or her representative of their intended action and I think that action did create 
additional distress and inconvenience. So, Im not persuaded to reduce that compensation.
  
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with sufficient information to change my second provisional decision 
and that now becomes my final decision on this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brothers limited to:refund any deposit Mrs J has paid and add 8% simple interest per year to that 
refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mrs J £500 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes
experienced;
refund, or waive, all finance instalments due since the car broke down on 27
December 2019 and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement;
refund any money Mrs J has spent on oil or getting the oil topped up, on provision 
of receipts from Mrs J;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Js credit file in relation 
to this issue.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman