DRN-3648855
The complaint
Mr P, through his representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as 
Everyday Loans, lent to him when he could not afford it. 
What happened
Mr P took one loan of £2,000 repayable over 24 months from 20 March 2018 and the 
monthly repayments were to be £248.55. The total to repay to Everyday Lending was 
£5,965.20 if he had repaid through to the end of the term. Mr P repaid the bulk of the loan 
early in July 2019 and then a smaller outstanding sum in November 2019. Mr P paid overall 
£5,034.69. 
Mr P complained and Everyday Lending issued its final response letter (FRL) in 
January 2022. In that FRL it said that Mr Ps regular monthly net income was £2,473.68 
which it said it had verified with a payslip. It had checked up on his job, looked at two sets of 
bank account statements and carried out a credit search. Using what it knew combined with 
Office of National Statistics (ONS) data it had calculated that Mr Ps monthly expenses were 
just under £1,731, leaving him with what it said was just over £494 a month disposable 
income. This figure was after taking into account consolidated loans and Everyday Loans 
monthly repayments.  Everyday Lending did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Everyday Lending has sent to us a schedule of the loans it had identified that Mr P owed 
money on, and his other credit and debt situation. I will refer to that in the main body of the 
decision. It had also done an income and expenditure calculation (I&E) spreadsheet which 
I refer to later. 
After Mr P had referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, on of our 
adjudicators looked at the complaint. He analysed what Mr P usually paid each month to 
service his debts, what the effect of the new loan was to consolidate his debts and decided 
that Mr P was not able to afford the loan. He thought that at Everyday Lending had got it 
wrong.
Mr P agreed with our adjudicator. Everyday Lending disagreed. Our adjudicator issued a 
second letter of opinion and after no resolution was reached the complaint was referred to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the overarching 
questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint are:
Did Everyday Lending , each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Mr P would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr P would have been able to do so?
Did Everyday Lending  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending  to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ps ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending  had to think about 
whether repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had 
to ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr P undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending  to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr P. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint. 
The fact that Mr P repaid the loan early is not relevant when considering a complaint about 
irresponsible lending as the period for me to review is the lending decision date which was 
March 2018. 
Everyday Lending has said that Mr P was going to use the capital sum to consolidate debts. 
And that seems to have formed the basis of the rationale to lend. However, Ive seen no 
evidence to show me that Everyday Lending satisfied itself that the debts which were going 
to be paid off using the £2,000 loan capital was so used. Often I see records to show that Everyday Lending had paid those other creditors off directly. 
The Statement of Account it has sent to us for Mr P shows that on 21 March 2018 the 
£2,000 was advanced to Mr P. So, it does not seem to have been the case that Mr Ps other 
debts were paid off with this loan by Everyday Lending directly. Its feasible that Mr P used 
the £2,000 for other matters and remained with his existing debt and the £249 (rounded) a 
month to pay for this loan on top. 
Everyday Lending said it obtained and reviewed Mr Ps bank statements for two months and 
did a credit search. It also checked where he worked. Everyday Lending said it used 
statistical data and figures to calculate the living expense element of affordability. 
The I&E Everyday Lending carried out, under scrutiny, I think was wrong. It used Mr Ps 
salary of £2,474 (rounded). It deducted his rent each month of £650. It used its usual formula  
(35% of income up to a max if £1,000) to get a living expenses figure of £866 (rounded). But 
that living expense figure could have been more than that. And using the bank statements it 
used to review Mr Ps financial situation I think it was more than that. 
Everyday Lending also had a list of what it described as creditor repayments of £1,808 
which it had down as monthly expense. So that came to a negative figure of £850 a month. 
Then the monthly creditor payment consolidating figure was factored in at £1,593 which 
meant that according to Everyday Lending Mr P would have been left with £744. I think 
those figures were incorrect. After deducting the Everyday Lending new loan repayments of 
£249 (rounded) then Everyday Lendings calculations led it to think that Mr P would be left 
with £494. I think that it got this wrong.
Here is a duplicate (adapted) of the debt table Everyday Lending had prepared. 
Type of credit 
agreement/accountBalance Settlement Repayment 
(repayment as 
per the credit 
search) Repayment 
frequency
Payday loan 
(rounded sum)£777 £777 £777 monthly
Payday loan £560 £560 £560 monthly
Payday loan* £350 £0 £108 (£117) periodic
Payday loan* £250 £0 £64.62 (£70) periodic
Payday loan* £137 £0 £63.69 (£69) periodic
Credit card £771 £0 £23.13 monthly
Car finance £10,380 £0 £192 monthly
The credit card and the car finance debts were not going to be included in the debt 
consolidation. But as I have said earlier, I dont think that there was any debt consolidation.
The sums that were calculated to be part of the consolidation were £777, £560, £350, £250, 
£137 which added up to £2,074. So, the £2,000 loan was a bit short to clear them. I know 
that our adjudicator referred to this point. And it substantiates my own view that Everyday 
Lending got it wrong when it thought it was lending to Mr P to consolidate debts. I think it 
was simply adding further debt to his debt burden.
The monthly repayment saving was not what I think Everyday Lending had calculated it to 
be as the payday loans I have placed a star by in the above table had monthly repayments 
which came to £236.31 (or using the credit search monthly repayment figures - £256). The other two payday loans would, in theory, not be costing more each month as they ought 
to have been paid off. 
Added to which, the bank account statements Mr P had provided showed that on both of the 
accounts he was right up to his credit limit on his overdrafts and was spending at least £150 
a month in daily overdraft fees  a figure I have obtained from reviewing those bank 
statements that Everyday Lending saw. The credit card balance minimum monthly 
repayment at 3% was £23.13. And those payments for the overdraft and the credit card 
(referred to above) would not have reduced the balances. Therefore, that debt level would 
have remained much the same.
Everyday Lending had enough information to be able to calculate exactly what Mr Ps 
regular expenditure was on all items  rent, council tax, food, utilities, travel, insurances, 
regular credit commitments, and other items usual to modern living without having to utilise 
ONS data and an in-house formula to get that figure. 
It knew Mr Ps debt situation particularly that he had outstanding payday loans and both 
bank accounts were right up to, or over, their overdraft credit limits which would leave him 
with little room with which to find the cash to pay for the new loan. It had not verified that 
Mr P was going to use the £2,000 to consolidate his loans and thereby reduce his outgoings 
each month. 
My calculations using the information to hand  all sent to us from Everyday Lending  was 
that Mr Ps outgoings exceeded his salary, and he had other loans to pay and Everyday 
Lending had not the assurance to know that the £2,000 loan was going to be used to pay 
down other debt. 
So, I think that on the information Everyday Lending had from its own resources it made a 
mis-calculation as to the affordability of this loan. In the circumstances I think that Everyday 
Lending lent irresponsibly. 
I uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right Everyday Lending should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan,
treat any payments made by Mr P in respect of this loan as payments towards the capital 
amount of £2,000,
If Mr P has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to him 
with 8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
remove any adverse payment information about the loan from Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending  to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Lending  must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and I direct that Everyday Lending 
Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, does as I have outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman