DRN-3741250
The complaint
Mr and Mr B-Ws complaint about Cumberland Building Society (CBS) relates to their 
application for a mortgage which CBS declined.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr L B-W and Mr G B-W called CBS making an enquiry about a re-mortgage. 
Mr L B-W provided details of their income and expenditure explaining that he was currently 
on adoption leave from work. He advised that he and his husband were planning a second 
adoption around November 2022 at which point he said he might take a second period of 
adoption leave without returning to work. 
Mr L B-W said that he also had a number of days of holiday entitlement yet to take and he 
that he might return to work before his pay dropped down to the statutory minimum. He said 
he had no date of return although confirmed he would return to work on the same terms and 
conditions. He confirmed he had not yet had a conversation with his employer about the 
basis upon which he would return to work as he was only very early into his adoption leave 
and he hadnt yet decided what he was going to do.
The advisor told Mr L B-W that she would look at the affordability of the proposed mortgage 
and having done so told him there were no affordability issues once he returned to work. 
She said CBS would however require confirmation of when Mr L B-W was to return to work 
and the terms on which he was returning.
Mr L B-W reiterated that he did not know what plans would be until much later in the year. 
Whilst the advisor confirmed she could proceed with an application she warned that it was 
very likely going to result in no mortgage offer being made until Mr L B-W was able to 
confirm his date of return to work and the basis upon which that would be. Mr L B-W was 
unhappy with this and thought CBS were being discriminatory.
CBS denied it was being discriminatory and said the reason it could not proceed with a 
mortgage application to the point of issuing an offer, was because its lending policy required 
evidence of a return to work and the terms upon which that return was to be made. It 
explained that it was required to consider the affordability of any loan and that meant they 
had to check a borrowers income and expenditure. Where borrowers were on 
maternity/paternity leave it needed evidence that the borrower would be returning to work on 
the same terms as he left so that it could assess whether any changes made the loan 
unaffordable. It said it couldnt do this in Mr L B-Ws case as he hadnt yet made that 
decision. lt also looked at whether the mortgage was affordable on Mr G B-Ws salary alone, 
but found it was not.
CBS emphasised that they treated adoption leave in the same way as maternity leave and it 
had not acted in a discriminatory way. Mr and Mr B-W were unhappy with CBSs final 
response and so approached this service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. 
Our investigator thought that CBS hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with the 
complaint fairly. Mr and Mr B-W didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr L B-W feels CBS have acted in a discriminatory way and may have breached the 
Equality Act. However, its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not 
 thats a matter for the Court who will be able to test the evidence in the usual manner 
which this service cannot do. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. In order to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into 
account including relevant law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. So although its for the Courts to say whether or not CBS has breached the 
Equality Act 2010, were required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, 
amongst other things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint.
Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding this complaint  given that its 
relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. 
If Mr and Mr B-W want a decision that CBS has breached the Equality Act 2010, then theyd 
need to go to Court.
It is also not the role of this service to recommend how financial businesses should conduct 
or arrange their commercial operations and processes. That is a matter for them to 
determine. We dont have the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct 
that they change their policy or procedures. We only look at what happened in the 
circumstances of the individual complaint and check they followed their rules and procedures 
and have applied them fairly. We also dont have power to tell a business what its lending 
criteria should be. That is also a matter for them  for their own commercial judgment. It 
follows that CBS are entitled to assess each application and determine whether it is 
prepared to lend. 
CBS have a lending policy which they apply equally to those on maternity and adoption 
leave. That policy, in part, requires it to assess the affordability of any loan it is offering and 
in doing so those borrowers on maternity/adoption leave are required to evidence what 
terms they will be on when they return to work. It applied this policy to Mr L B-W and the 
rationale is straightforward in that it is trying to assess whether any change in employment 
terms might affect the affordability of the loan. That is logical and sensible. Whilst other 
lenders may have a different policy that is not something I can take into account. It is CBSs 
policy I must focus on and whether it was applied fairly to Mr L B-W.
Having listened to the telephone call between Mr L B-W and CBS advisor, it is clearly 
recorded that he said he would be returning to work at some point. He didnt know when that 
might be, and he confirmed he would need to have a conversation with his employer. He 
hadnt yet had that conversation because he had only just commenced his adoption leave 
and he did not want to commit himself at that point to a return date. That is also entirely 
understandable. He also said that he might extend his leave into another period if he and his 
husband went ahead with the planned second adoption. 
At that time there were a number of potential scenarios for Mr L B-W; he could have returned 
to work when his adoption leave expired; he could have returned before that date; or after it; 
and he could  have gone on to have a second period of adoption leave. Whilst he confirmed that his terms and conditions of employment would not change, that of 
course was predicated on the basis that he would return to work on the same basis as when 
he left. It is possible that he could have returned doing less hours with a corresponding 
reduction in income. At that point he could not confirm what the basis of his return would be 
and thus it was not possible for CBS to carry out their affordability assessment. It is for this 
reason that the application could not proceed, not that he was on adoption leave.  
I accept that Mr L B-W was in a difficult position because he did not want to commit to a 
return date to work. Had he done so that would have crystallised the basis of his return, but 
without that information his application could not proceed. 
That does not make CBSs policy unfair. The policy in my view is fair and reasonable since it 
allows CBS to fully consider an applicants ability to afford the mortgage going forward 
through what is quite obviously a time of considerable change and upheaval. I do of course 
accept that as matters transpired, Mr L B-W did return to work on the same terms and 
conditions, but this was not something that was known at the time he made his enquiry in 
April. So, although Mr and Mr B-W will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say 
CBS has acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
I must also clarify that any overall concerns about business process would need to be 
raised with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They take a principles-based approach to 
conduct regulation, letting businesses choose how they incorporate those principles into the 
way they deal with customers. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman