DRN-3978926
Complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt reimburse him when he fell victim to a 
scam.
Background
In 2020, Mr R fell victim to an investment scam. Hed made an investment many years 
earlier and received the proceeds from it. However, in 2020 he was contacted again and told 
that hed been significantly undercompensated. However, to access the money that he was 
entitled to, he needed to make several tax payments. He transferred over £79,000 using his 
Barclays account in several payments and over a period of around five months.
When he realised hed fallen victim to a scam, he contacted Barclays. It decided it wouldnt 
reimburse him. Mr R was unhappy with that response and so he referred his complaint to 
this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. The Investigator noted that 
Barclays had an obligation to be on the lookout for account activity that was unusual or out 
of character that might be indicative of a fraud risk. She noted that Mr R hadnt made 
international payments from his account before and, furthermore, these payments were 
significantly larger than typical payments from his account.
She considered that, by the point Mr R made his third payment (just over £20,000) that those 
concerns ought to have prompted it to intervene. That payment shouldnt have been 
processed until Barclays had spoken to Mr R to satisfy itself that he wasnt at risk. If it had 
done so, the Investigator concluded, its likely that the scam wouldve been uncovered, and 
Mr R wouldve been prevented from making the subsequent payments too.
Barclays agreed with the Investigator that there was an indication of a scam risk by the time 
Mr R made that third payment. However, in its view, Mr R ought to be considered partially 
responsible for his losses here. Barclays considered that what Mr R had been told by the 
scammers was implausible and that he ought to have taken greater care before agreeing to 
transfer the money. It agreed to refund 50% of his losses from the third payment onwards.
The Investigator reconsidered her position. She was persuaded that Barclays challenge to 
her original uphold was a well-founded one and that it was fair and reasonable for it to hold 
him partially responsible for his losses. Mr R rejected Barclays offer to settle the complaint 
and didnt agree with the Investigators view. As he disagreed, the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that Mr R authorised these payments. Under the relevant 
regulations, he is therefore considered liable for them at first instance. However, Barclays 
had a well established duty to be on the lookout for account activity or transactions that were 
unusual or out of character to the extent that they might indicate that Mr R was at risk of 
financial harm due to fraud.
I agree with the conclusions of the Investigator that it ought to have been concerned by the 
point Mr R made the third payment of just over £20,000. If it had intervened appropriately at 
that point, I think its more likely than not that it wouldve prevented him from making the 
subsequent payments to the scammer.
However, Ive also considered whether Mr R can be considered responsible for his losses. In 
doing so, Ive taken into account what the law says about  contributory negligence but also 
borne in mind the fact that I must decide this complaint on the basis of what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Having done so, I agree that its fair and 
reasonable for him to be considered partially responsible.
The revelation that his £400 investment had actually grown and was now worth £62,000 
wouldve been remarkable and Im surprised Mr R didnt treat it with more scepticism. He 
doesnt appear to have taken any steps to check whether the company that had approached 
him was legitimate nor carry out any research. I dont know what steps the scammers took to 
make this suggestion seem more credible, but Mr R hasnt provided any evidence of the 
communications he had with them. So, based on everything Ive seen, I think he ought to 
have acted more cautiously here. I therefore find it fair and reasonable for Barclays to refund 
only 50% of the money he lost from the third payment onwards.
Final decision
For the reasons that Ive explained above, my decision is that the offer is a reasonable one.
If it hasnt already done so, Barclays Bank UK PLC should
-  pay Mr R 50% of the money he lost to the scam from the third payment onwards
- add 8% simple interest per annum to this sum calculated to run from the date the 
payments were made until the date any settlement is paid to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman