DRN-3850393
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs Ss husband has also sought to join her in bringing this complaint. They are both 
represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around 19 January 2016, Mrs S was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs S decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed. Mrs S is named as the sole contracting party on the solar quote and 
on the loan agreement, which makes her the only eligible complainant under our rules.
On 12 January 2022 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mrs Ss behalf under the Act. 
The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mrs S to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity which she could sell to the national grid;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on her electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan agreement payments.
The CMC also alleged that P had paid Shawbrook commission, and that this had resulted in 
an unfair contractual relationship arising with Mrs S.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs S or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. It 
denied paying commission to the salesman or to P.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs S and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It said:
the solar quote had a table showing the estimated benefits that Mrs S could expect to 
receive from the system over 30 years, but this was misleading as the lifespan of the 
panels is only 20 years;
another table showed the estimated payback time (when the system would break 
even) based on the cash price of the system, without taking into account the cost of 
the finance;
the quote had calculated the electricity savings based on a current unit price of 
electricity of 15.57 p/kWh, when Mrs Ss bills showed she had actually been paying 
10.26 p/kWh in 2015;
that calculation had significantly inflated the estimated benefits from the system by 
thousands of pounds;
the system would not actually pay for itself within its lifespan;
the quote did not go into enough depth to compare the cost of the system with its 
benefits;
P pays its sales representatives commission for each sale (£500 to £750), creating 
an incentive for its salesmen to lie.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mrs S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs S could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs S and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system. The CMC has also 
alleged that P paid Shawbrook commission or gave Shawbrook some other financial 
remuneration. Shawbrook denies that this happened, and I have seen no evidence that it 
did, and so I do not accept it. The CMC also says that P only paid its salesmen for sales, 
and not for sales meetings where there was no sale. However, I dont think that would give 
rise to an unfair relationship, unless this actually led to the system being misrepresented.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing her loss.
As I have said, Mr S is not eligible to complain, but that does not prevent me from taking into 
account what he has told us about what happened.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.Mr and Mrs S say that during a sales meeting Mrs S was told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Mr and Mrs Ss testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide 
on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a very detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mrs S, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to her agreeing to enter into the contract. Mrs S has signed it.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mrs Ss 
version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Mrs S has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on her energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mrs Ss recollections of her meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs S could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. (The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.) This is the first table:
I think that table is clear that Mrs S could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one of 
£204.64. The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs S could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings are given as £239.98 and, when taking 
into account the optional extras chosen by Mrs S, the combined income and savings in year 
one are shown as £660.62. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together on page 8, 
and also in the Key Facts on page 2, so I think this figure was conspicuous.
On page 5 of the quote it says that the cash price of the system is £9,020. As Ive said, 
Mrs S took out a ten year loan to pay for that. So, leaving aside the loan interest for now (Ill 
come back to that later), Mrs S would have had to repay £902 a year over the loan term, 
compared with a benefit from the system of only £660 in the first year. So I think it was made 
clear that the system would not pay for itself within the loan term.
Looking at this in another way, an annual benefit figure of £660 results in an average 
monthly income of about £55. Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be a 
monthly loan repayment due of £118.70 (and this figure does include the loan interest). As a 
result, Im not able to conclude that Mrs S was told that the monthly loan repayments would 
be covered by the FIT payments and savings.
The quote has another section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments 
over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as 
this is the length of the loan that Mrs S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £118.70. (This is incorrect; the loan 
agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £117.39, but the difference  £1.31  is too 
small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it shows the 
expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a 
negative figure for every year of the loan, meaning that the system would never make 
enough money to cover the loan payments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs S could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about 
Mrs Ss version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of 
the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that she was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and savings.
I have also considered the 180 months table, because it has been highlighted, which might 
indicate that it was discussed at some point during the meeting. It shows that for the first 
eleven years the system would not make enough money to cover the loan payments. So 
whichever table is used, it was clear that the system would not make enough to cover the 
loan payments.
I am reinforced in my view by this graph (on page 6 of the quote), which also plainly showed 
that the system would not make enough to cover the loan payments.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs S that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.31 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mrs S, 
so Im satisfied that P did bring it to her attention. On balance Im also satisfied that the 
salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mrs S was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take 11 years for the 
overall benefits that Mrs S could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the 11-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2. The CMC has criticised this part of the quote because the payback time only refers 
to the cash price and not the total cost including the loan interest, and the small print under 
the green graphic which explains this is very small. It says this small print could easily be 
overlooked, making the 11-year timescale misleading. However, this same figure also 
appears in the Putting it all together section, immediately below two other figures which are 
prominently labelled (does not include finance charge). So I think that would have made it 
clear that the payback time was based on the cash price.
(Even if I took a different view about that, 11 years is still longer than the loan term, so this 
reinforces my view in the previous section that the salesman did not say that the system 
would pay for itself during the ten years of the loan.)
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
30 years. This too shows that it would take 11 years for the overall benefits that Mrs S could 
expect to receive to reach the cash price of the system, and 15 years to reach the total 
amount payable under the loan agreement (£14,086). These figures are not affected by the 
figures for subsequent years, so even if the system would not have lasted for 30 years these 
payback figures would not be affected.
On the subject of the lifespan of the system, I think that Mrs S is more likely to have been 
influenced by the benefit in the earlier years than by what she stood to get in 30 years time. 
And I note that the quote says on page 4 that there is a 25 year warranty on the panels, so 
I dont think that 30 years is unrealistic. (The FIT income is only for 20 years, but that is not 
related to the lifespan of the panels.)
Benefit calculation
The CMC has pointed out that the estimated savings on Mrs Ss electricity bills were 
calculated based on a unit price of electricity of 15.57 p/kWh, when Mrs Ss bills showed she 
had actually been paying 10.26 p/kWh in the year before the sale. It argues that P should 
have ascertained the correct rate from her utility bills.
Although I think that is a reasonable point, it appears to have been the industry standard at 
the time to take an average rate based on data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) 
and to use that, instead of asking consumers for their rates on a case by case basis; ONS 
figures were also used to predict the likely inflation rate and increases in electricity prices 
over the coming years. (This meant that unpredictable changes in fixed rates for individual 
customers could be eliminated and the predictions about income in later years would be 
based on national averages.) Under our rules, I am supposed to take into account good 
industry practice at the relevant time,1 and I think that P followed that, and showed its 
working in the quote.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs S to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 DISP 3.6.4R(2) in the FCA Handbook.