DRN-3799526
The complaint
Mr G complains that MBNA Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit card.
What happened
Mr G applied for a credit card with MBNA in June 2017. In his application he said he was 
employed with an income of £30,000 per year. MBNA approved the application and gave Mr 
G a credit card with a credit limit of £3000.
Mr G complained to MBNA and said it had lent to him irresponsibly. MBNA didnt uphold the 
complaint, so Mr G complained to this service. Our adjudicator didnt think MBNA had lent 
irresponsibly.
Mr G didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that MBNA had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr G could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks need to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. The nature 
of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various factors 
including the amount of credit, the amount of repayments, the cost of the credit and the 
consumers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding what is reasonable and proportionate.
MBNA says it used the information provided by Mr G as well as information supplied by the 
credit reference agencies when deciding whether to approve his application for the credit 
card.
Ive looked at the information MBNA used when it approved Mr Gs application. It reviewed 
information from credit reference agencies and found no adverse entries. It used information 
Mr G had provided about his income, which was £30,000 per year. It obtained information 
about Mr Gs other unsecured debt, which was around £11,500, and another consumer 
credit commitment (loan/hire purchase agreement) which was around £3500.
Looking at the credit limit in relation to Mr Gs income and level of unsecured debt, I think it 
would have been proportionate for MBNA to have taken steps to verify Mr Gs income and 
expenditure to make sure that the credit was affordable.
Ive looked at Mr Gs bank statements for the months prior to his application for the MBNA 
credit card. The statements show that Mr G received income of around £1463 each month 
and that he made payments towards his other unsecured debt. He had an overdraft facility 
which he used regularly.
Ive also taken into account that Mr G used the MBNA credit card to transfer around 25% of 
his existing unsecured debt to benefit from a 0% interest rate. This reduced the amount he 
was paying towards unsecured debt overall. 
Based on all of the information Ive seen, I think the credit card appeared affordable for Mr 
G. If MBNA had looked at the information, I dont think it would have seen anything to make 
it think that Mr G couldnt afford to repay the lending.
In conclusion, I dont think MBNA lent to Mr G irresponsibly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman