DRN-3704058
The complaint
Mr S complained Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) unfairly cancelled his 
policy as he supplied incorrect information in relation to his claim under his home insurance 
policy. Mr S has had representation during his complaint, but for ease and simplicity, Ill only 
refer to Mr S.
What happened
Mr S contacted Admiral after a third-party vehicle damaged a boundary wall of his property. 
Mr S said he provided the Police with details of the number plate of the third-party, but they 
were unable to divulge the details of the driver. So, Mr S asked Admiral for help in tracking 
down the driver so he could seek compensation directly from the driver.
Admiral commenced a process of validating the claim. During the validation process, Admiral 
determined that the incident occurred the day before Mr S had told Admiral the incident had 
occurred. Additionally, Admiral identified that Mr S arranged his new policy with Admiral 40 
minutes after the actual incident. As the policy wasnt in place at the time of the incident, 
Admiral declined the claim.
Admiral wrote to Mr S informing him of its decision and set out that incorrect information had 
been provided by Mr S in relation to his claim. Admiral asked Mr S to provide further 
information to validate the claim. Otherwise, it said it would cancel his policy in line with its 
terms and conditions under section 9 Fraud  in relation to the reckless or deliberate 
misrepresentation of information. Admiral said Mr S didnt provide answers to the questions 
it asked, so it cancelled the policy after 14 days.
Mr S is unhappy as he said he never raised a claim with Admiral he only asked for help in 
tracking the third-party driver. Mr S said his original submission of the claim form containing 
the incorrect date was done in error. Mr S wants Admiral to acknowledge there was no 
deliberate fraudulent intent on [his behalf]. He said hes tried to explain many times his 
mistake with the dates. The cancellation of his policy has made it difficult for Mr S to obtain 
insurance at a reasonable price, his premiums have increased significantly, and hes lost his 
no claims bonus. Mr S wants to be compensated for his financial loss and for the distress 
hes suffered.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought Admiral had been 
reasonable to conclude it was deliberately provided with false information. He didnt see 
evidence that Mr S adequately tried to correct this error during the claims process. 
Subsequently, he thought Admiral were fair to cancel the policy in line with the terms and 
conditions. Mr S disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to establish whats more likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities, 
based on the available evidence. Its not my role to determine whether a fraud has been 
committed, but to ascertain whether I think Admiral has been fair and reasonable in reaching 
its conclusions based on the evidence that has been provided.
Mr S said he only asked for help with tracking the third-party driver down. However, this isnt 
the way an insurance company works. When a claim or enquiry is made, I would expect 
Admiral to collect all the information it can in relation to the incident from the insured (in this 
case Mr S) before it contacts the third-partys insurer to try and recover the costs from them. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable when Mr S contacted Admiral that it started its normal 
claims process.
Its worth explaining that during a claim, its normal for an insurer to follow several lines of 
validation in parallel, so not to delay the claim unnecessarily. Mr S said he didnt know why 
Admiral didnt just decline the claim at the outset. However, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Admiral to have progressed the claim in case it needed paying out. It separately carried 
out the other validations it needed to  which in this case included the validation around the 
information Mr S submitted.
Mr S has now acknowledged his insurance wasnt in place at the time the incident occurred 
and has accepted Admirals decision to decline the claim. So, I wont consider the declining 
of the claim itself.
However, Mr S is unhappy that his policy was subsequently cancelled, and this action was 
recorded against his name. This led to the cost of his insurance increasing significantly when 
he sought new insurance as insurers perceived a higher risk with providing Mr S a policy. 
So, I have looked at whether I think Admiral has been fair to cancel the policy.
Admiral said it cancelled the policy in line with the terms and conditions related to fraud. I 
have checked what Admiral said and what the policy states. The policy states if you or 
anyone acting for you recklessly or deliberately misrepresents information we require at any 
time during the period of insurance that would impact either the terms and conditions or our 
ability to offer cover itself, your policy and all other policies to which you are connected 
through Admiral will be cancelled or voided.
We will not pay a claim which is in any part fraudulent, false, exaggerated or if you or anyone 
acting for you makes a claim in a fraudulent or false way, or where we have been given a 
false statement, or any documents which are false or stolen. We will seek to recover any 
costs we have incurred and will not return any premium.
I have checked the general conditions of the policy. Section 9 on fraud states if you, any 
other insured person, or anyone acting on your behalf, provides false, incomplete, 
exaggerated or misleading information, we will do one or more of the following things.the 
list includes cancel your policy immediately.
Therefore, if I think Admiral has shown on the balance of probabilities Mr S has recklessly or 
deliberately misrepresented information, then Im likely to say Admiral has been fair in 
cancelling the policy, as it will have acted in line with the terms and conditions.
Mr S and Admiral have both provided detailed accounts explaining the circumstances of this 
claim and where appropriate they have shared supporting evidence. I have considered all 
this information, and unfortunately, Im going to disappoint Mr S as I think on the balance of 
probabilities Admiral has been fair in cancelling the policy as I think its shown its more likely 
that Mr S did recklessly or deliberately misrepresent information. Im not going to comment 
on every piece of evidence, but I will explain what the key factors have been in persuading 
me to take this decision.Mr S said a previous incident with his chimney made him realise he needed to arrange his 
insurance. However, Admiral has provided evidence which includes images from social 
media and recorded calls about the claim, that Mr S arranged his new policy with Admiral 40 
minutes after the actual incident.
I appreciate Mr S said this was a pure coincidence, but I think its more likely Mr S took out 
the policy in order that he would be covered for the claim. I think if the chimney had been the 
prompt to take out the insurance, hed have arranged it sooner.
When the claim form was submitted to Admiral, he stated on the form the incident occurred 
the day after it had actually occurred. I think at this point Mr S wouldve been aware that he 
took out the insurance policy after the incident and wouldve known he wasnt covered. 
Therefore, whether he ever intended to make a claim or just ask for Admirals support, I think 
he should reasonably have known the damage occurred before the inception of the policy 
and so, he wouldnt have been covered for it.
So, I think having known this, Mr S shouldve shown due care to get the dates correct when 
he submitted his claim. I think it wouldve also been reasonable at this point for Mr S to flag 
up to Admiral that he wasnt covered for the incident. Therefore, I think Admiral has 
reasonably shown that there was good reason to think Mr S recklessly or deliberately 
misrepresented information in relation to when the incident occurred.
Mr S has said the error with the incident date was quickly explained to numerous Admiral 
employees, so I have considered whether there has been any pro-active signposting by Mr 
S to Admiral about the error. Unfortunately, I havent found evidence to support this. I can 
see Admiral carried out its own validation of the claim. Part of this validation was around the 
date of the incident as it had a suspicion it was stated incorrectly on the claim form.
On more than two occasions Admiral asked Mr S to confirm the incident date. During these 
interactions (with the surveyor and with the call agent) Mr S representative provided the 
correct date of the incident (which was one day earlier than hed said on the submitted claim 
form). However, at no point did Mr S signal to Admiral that the incident had occurred before 
the time the policy had been taken out. So, I dont think Mr S has taken any steps to highlight 
or correct the deliberate or misrepresentation of information i.e. the damage was pre-
inception of the policy.
Admiral wrote to Mr S and challenged the information provided by Mr S when he made his 
claim. It asked several questions related to the information Mr S had submitted about the 
incident date. Admiral said Mr S didnt respond to that letter. However, Mr S has shown he 
did reply to a no-reply address rather than the contact information set out in the letter. I 
have reviewed Mr S response and he didnt answer any of the specific questions posed in 
relation to the incident date, he replied please note that we have repaired the wall that was 
damaged by the trailer. We have only ever asked for support in identifying the owner so we 
can claim off them directly. Please close this claim.
I think Mr S avoiding answering these questions and asking for the claim to be closed seems 
inconsistent with his testimony of wanting to correct his initial error on dates.
In summary, whilst its not my role to determine if a fraud has occurred, I think Admiral has 
reasonably proven on the balance of probabilities that Mr S did recklessly or deliberately 
misrepresent information. Following on, it has cancelled the policy in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy, so I dont think it has acted unfairly. Consequently, I think Admiral 
has been fair in recording why it cancelled Mr S policy. I dont think Admiral wouldve offered 
the policy in the first place if it was aware of the facts. I think the misrepresentation has led to 
Mr S getting cover under false pretences. Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman