DRN-2450136
The complaint
Mrs T, and Mrs H on behalf of the estate of the late Mr H, say Nationwide Building Society 
mis-sold Mrs T and Mr H a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a personal loan in 1991. 
The loan was in Mrs T and Mr Hs joint names. 
The policy covered Mrs T for accident, sickness and unemployment. It also included some 
life cover for Mrs T and Mr H. The policy would have paid the monthly repayments on the 
loan until Mrs T returned to work, or until the loan was repaid  whichever happened sooner 
 if shed made a successful claim for accident or sickness. And it would have paid the 
monthly loan repayments for up to 12 months if shed made a successful unemployment 
claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs T, and Mrs H on 
behalf of the estate of Mr H, disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Due to the time thats passed, Nationwide no longer has copies of the documents Mrs T 
and Mr H signed. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given that the loan was 
taken out nearly 30 years ago. But Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement and of the 
outline of cover that was sent to the borrowers.
The credit agreement includes a concise table, setting out details of the cost of the loan 
and the PPI. The columns show the principal loan Optional Credit Insurance and the 
total.
I think it was clear from the way the PPI was referred to in the credit agreement that it 
was optional. Ive borne in mind that Mrs Ts pointed out that the form was typed. But 
I think its most likely that the form was completed and printed following a discussion with 
Mrs T and Mr H about the loan, including whether they wished to take PPI. And I think 
they decided to take the cover, knowing that they had a choice  although I can 
understand how Mrs T may no longer remember this, so many years later.
Mrs T says Nationwide didnt recommend the policy, or give any advice about it. And 
Nationwide says it wouldnt have made any recommendation to Mrs T and Mr H about 
the PPI. Based on what we know about the way these policies were sold at the time, 
I think thats likely to be right. This means that Nationwide didnt need to check that the 
policy was suitable for Mrs T and Mr H. But it did need to give them enough information 
to enable them to decide for themselves whether the policy was right for them.
Its possible that the information Nationwide gave Mrs T and Mr H about the policy wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. But Ive explained that I think they chose to take out the 
PPI, so I think they wanted this type of cover, even if Mrs T has understandably forgotten 
this now, so many years later. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs T and Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time, it doesnt look as if they were affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover (for example, provisions about unusual employment 
situations, or existing medical conditions).
Mrs T has told us shed have been entitled to generous sick pay form her employer at 
the time. But the policy would potentially have paid out for longer than this. And it would 
have paid out for up to 12 months if shed been made redundant. Whats more, it would 
have paid out in addition to any payments Mrs T received from her employer. So she 
could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
Mrs Ts told us that the loan was to make a purchase for her. She says that Nationwide 
required her to add Mr H to the loan as guarantor. But although the loan may have been 
for Mrs Ts benefit, Mr H is clearly shown on the credit agreement as joint borrower. 
Mrs T says both she and Mr H had savings when they took out the loan. But Ive borne in 
mind that shed chosen to keep hold of her savings, rather than putting them towards the 
purchase. And having the PPI would have allowed her to continue to protect her savings.
Mrs Ts also mentioned that Mr H owned a property with no mortgage, and that he had 
significant savings at the time, so he could have helped her with her loan payments if 
necessary. But Ive borne in mind that circumstances can change. So I cant be sure that 
Mr H would have been in a position to use his savings to help Mrs T to repay the loan if 
the need had arisen. And I think its unlikely, on balance, that Mr H would have wanted to 
sell or re-mortgage his property in order to help with the loan repayments. So taking 
everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful for Mrs T.
Some policies where a single premium was included for the PPI didnt give proportionate 
refunds if the PPI ended early. And that wasnt always made clear. But Im satisfied that 
Mrs T and Mr H would have been entitled to a proportionate refund of the PPI premium if 
the loan had been repaid early. So theyd only have paid for the period of cover they 
actually used.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs T and Mr H would have been put off 
taking out the PPI even if better information had been provided. So I dont think theyve 
lost out as a result of anything Nationwide may have done wrong.Ive taken account of all Mrs Ts comments, including what shes said about having been 
pressured into taking the policy. But Ive explained that I think it would have been clear to 
Mrs T and Mr H that the policy was optional. And without stronger evidence, I cant fairly 
conclude that pressure was put on them to take out the policy, based purely on Mrs Ts 
recollection of events which took place nearly 30 years ago. So this doesnt change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T, and Mrs H 
on behalf of the estate of Mr H, to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman