DRN-4339510
The complaint
Miss K complaints Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty (Drafty) gave her a line of credit she 
couldnt afford. 
What happened
Miss K approached Drafty for a running credit facility on 17 September 2021 and she was 
given a facility with a £500 credit limit  the limit was increased on one occasion in 
June 2022 to £650. Miss K has had some problems repaying the facility and by March 2023 
the outstanding balance stood at £737, and her facility had been terminated. 
Miss K was given a running credit account where she could either request funds up to her
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to the limit. She was also
able to borrow further, up to the credit limit, as and when she repaid what she owed. To be
clear, Miss K was not given a payday loan.
In Draftys final response letter issued in March 2023, it explained the information it had 
gathered from Miss K before it approved the facility. It concluded given the estimated 
monthly repayment, Miss K was likely to be able to afford the facility. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss K referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, 
where it was considered by an adjudicator. And she thought the checks Drafty carried out 
before initially granting this facility were likely proportionate.
The adjudicator also explained that Drafty also had an obligation to monitor the facility. She 
thought, given how the facility had been used and the value of the credit limit increase that 
Draftys decision to increase the limit was reasonable. She also said Drafty was right to take 
the action that it did when payments were missed which led to the facility being terminated 
and a default being applied. 
Miss K didnt agree, saying while the facility may have been affordable, she could only repay 
it by borrowing other loans. When the credit limit was increased Miss K was paying 4 credit 
cards, 2 high-cost credit loans and car finance. She also provided details of how COVID-19 
impacted on her earnings and due to the amount of debt she had, Miss K went on a 
repayment plan facilitated by a well-known debt advice charity. Finally, she said that her 
income at the time was around £1,050 per month and her outgoings were more than £250.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
In practice, all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. Ive kept all of this in
mind when reviewing about whether Drafty did what it needed to before agreeing to Miss Ks
Drafty facility.
As explained, Miss K was given an open-ended credit facility. Overall, I think that means the 
checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether 
Miss K would be able to both service and then repay her facility within a reasonable
period. Drafty also needed to monitor Miss Ks repayment record for any sign that she
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
In response to the adjudicators assessment Miss K commented on a debt management plan 
and whether Drafty was or wasnt included in it.  Later, Miss K provided more details about 
what happened and it seems that this issue stemmed from a lack of authority with the debt 
advice charity. But, I say no more about this issue here and if Miss K thinks something may 
not have gone wrong than she will need to take this up with the relevant party as a separate 
issue. 
What happened when Drafty approved the facility
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I dont think Drafty needed to have 
made further enquires with Miss K before it approved the facility. It was reasonable for it to 
have relied on the information Miss K provided along with the credit check results it received. 
Ive explained why below. 
Miss K was granted a facility with Drafty with a £500 limit. In the credit agreement, a
hypothetical situation is laid out to show the potential cost to Miss K. This hypothetical 
situation assumed that Miss K did the following:
1. drew down the maximum credit limit on the first day of the facility being provided,
2. she kept to the terms of the agreement and
3. Miss K repaid what she owed in 12 monthly instalments.
Had Miss K done that, shed have repaid Drafty a total of £677.94 meaning twelve monthly
repayments of around £56.49 each.
So, in these circumstances, I think Drafty needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate
checks to understand whether Miss K could make monthly repayments of around £57 as an
absolute minimum.
Drafty says it agreed to Miss Ks application after shed provided details of her monthly
income and expenditure and it carried out a credit check. Miss K declared she worked full 
time and received an income of £1,469.83 per month and she also declared monthly 
outgoings of £250. Even if I were to accept that Miss Ks declared outgoings were too low, she did tell Drafty in 
July 2022 that her outgoings were £675  so even if Drafty had used this figure it would have 
still been reasonable for Drafty to think that Miss K had sufficient disposable income to pay 
and service her facility. 
Drafty also carried out a credit check before the facility was granted, and it has provided the
Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results. 
The results showed that Miss K had eight active accounts and according to the results of the 
credit checks, Miss Ks had defaulted on one account but that had occurred 59 months 
before the facility was approved. So, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Drafty to have 
concluded, from the credit check results that Miss K wasnt likely experiencing any financial 
difficulties. 
I appreciate that Miss K has said her income wasnt as high as she declared, but Drafty 
could only make its decision based on the information it was provided, and at this point in the 
lending relationship I dont think Drafty needed to have verified the information it had  it was 
entirely reasonable for it to have relied on what it was told. 
I think Drafty carried out proportionate checks which showed it the facility was going to be 
affordable for Miss K. I am therefore not upholding the complaint about Draftys decision to 
provide her with a facility. 
Credit limit increase
In June 2022, Drafty increased Miss Ks credit limit from £500 to £650. During the time 
Miss K had the facility Drafty was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and it issued 
guidance on this type of lending and what it says should be expected from lenders when 
granting these types of facilities. Within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 
5.2A.6 says:
If an increase in the amount of credit or in the credit limit is not itself significant but 
would results in there having been, since the last creditworthiness assessment, a 
cumulative increase that is significant, then a further creditworthiness assessment is 
required.
The adjudicator therefore thought it was reasonable for Drafty to have increased the credit 
limit at this time given the small increase that was applied and how Miss K had used her 
facility up to this point. 
By June 2022, she had held the facility for around 9 months and including the initial 
drawdown she had only drawn down a total of 3 times. There wasnt anything in the way that 
Miss K repaid her facility up until this point to suggest that she was having financial 
difficulties or that the small increase in the credit limit would be unaffordable of unsustainable 
for her. So, I do not uphold this element of her complaint.  
Monitoring the facility
Although I dont think Drafty was wrong to have initially provided the facility, that wasnt the 
end of its obligations to Miss K. The relevant section of CONC 6.7.2R says:
(1) A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficultiesCONC 1.3 provides a non-exhaustive list of some indicators, which when present in a 
consumers circumstances, which could be suggestive of potential financial difficulties.
In practice, CONC 6.7.2(1)R meant Drafty needed to be mindful of Miss Ks repayment 
record and how she used the facility and step in if and when she showed signs of possible 
repayment difficulties.
Having reviewed the transaction data, which includes the relationship between when Miss K 
made her drawdowns and the repayments, there isnt anything within that which ought to 
have given Drafty cause for concern up to July 2022. Between October 2021 and the last 
drawdown in June 2022, Miss K drew down a total of 4 times, but importantly, she didnt 
draw every month for example there was no lending in November 2021 or January 2022. So 
her usage of the facility didnt indicate that she was dependent on the facility. 
I appreciate Miss K says that this payment could only have been made by borrowing form 
another lender, but at the time Drafty wouldnt and couldnt have known that. There also 
wasnt anything within the repayments that wouldve indicated to Drafty that she was having, 
or likely having, financial difficulties. 
I can see that Miss K didnt make her July 2022 payment, and so Drafty suspended the 
facility, this meant Miss K couldnt drawdown any further on it until the account was up to 
date, but interest would still accrue on any outstanding balance. I dont consider this an 
unreasonable course of action. 
Miss K then brought the account up to date in August 2022  but by this time her August 
payment was also late.  By paying more than the minimum amount required, as a result 
Drafty removed the suspension from the facility. This wasnt an unreasonable course of 
action for it to take, given that by now the account was up to date, and Miss K had paid more 
than the minimum in doing so. Miss K then drawdown for the final time   a further £100. 
I dont think that Drafty, before the final drawdown needed to take any further action, Miss K 
had missed a payment and was late with the August payment but this was the first time she 
had showed any sign of having any sort of difficulty managing her payments for her facility. I 
also dont think, at this moment in time Drafty needed to take any further action such as 
verifying the information Miss K had previously provided about her income and expenditure. 
Im sorry to hear about Miss Ks circumstances, and it does seem that based on what she 
has told us, Drafty may not have had the full picture of her situation either at the time the 
facility was approved or during the course of her servicing it. But I dont think, given the 
credit limits and how she managed her payments this wouldve led Drafty to have asked 
either further questions or have verified the information Miss K had provided. 
Further payments were then not made, and Drafty then took the decision to default and 
terminate the facility. Given the time since the last payment and considering the Information 
Commissioners Office guidance, I dont think Drafty made an error by defaulting the 
account. 
Having looked at all of the information I am not upholding Miss Ks complaint. An outstanding 
balance remains due, and I would remind Drafty of its regulatory obligation to treat Miss K 
fairly and with forbearance.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Miss Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman