DRN-4009304
The complaint
Miss H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund the money she lost after falling 
victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
In December 2021, Miss H was looking for accommodation to rent abroad due to her plans 
to relocate for work purposes. Miss H says a friend recommended a website where 
accommodation can be rented directly from landlords. Miss H has explained that she used 
this platform as she was hoping to avoid the usual deposits charged by real estate 
companies.
Miss H says after she found a few suitable properties she contacted the landlords and 
emails were exchanged. Unbeknown to Miss H at the time, she was in fact speaking with a 
fraudster. On 10 December 2021, Miss H agreed to proceed with the booking and asked that 
the details be emailed to her. 
The fraudster replied saying the advert was no longer visible on the main property rental 
website as this was for short term rentals and the price would be much higher. They added 
that the long-term rental procedure was different and was made on a separate platform. 
Miss H was told in order to receive a reservation request link shed need to provide 
information that had been requested (copy of driving licence/passport, address and contact 
details). 
Miss H provided the requested information on 16 December 2021 by email and the 
reservation request link was sent to her. The email reservation request she received had the 
branding of a well-known property website. 
On 17 December 2021, Miss H received an email from the fraudster letting her know theyd 
received a new proposal for the rental. They asked her to let them know if she wanted to 
complete the reservation or whether they should go with the other person. Miss H replied to 
say shed proceed with the payment. It appears Miss H flagged the rental period shown on 
the link for the rental property website at this point  I understand Miss H initially discussed a 
two-month rental but that this changed to one month. Emails to the fraudster indicate Miss H 
said shed notify the landlord 15 days in advance of whether she wanted to extend or cancel 
her stay.   
During the above period, Miss H has said she continued to look for properties but explained 
she couldnt find many properties within her budget. She said the property she proceeded 
with was in the area she wanted to move to and was reasonably well priced  cheaper than 
others but shes said it did not look luxurious. 
Believing this all to be genuine, Miss H proceeded to complete the booking via the property 
rental website. Shes said she was provided with a customer support chat in case she 
experienced any issues during the payment. When she encountered problems making the 
payment, Miss H told us she mentioned this on the customer service chat, and it was 
suggested that she make the payment online via a bank transfer. 
Miss H then made an online payment of £1,450 on 20 December 2021. Following this, she 
says she emailed the fraudster to confirm the payment had been made and requested more 
information about the apartment, such as, how to access it. Miss H also says she requested 
a confirmation email as shed not received one. 
Miss H told us she received a reply to say theyd be sending everything to her later, which 
caused her to become suspicious, as booking confirmations are usually automatic. Miss H 
contacted Barclays the same day to report shed been the victim of a scam. 
                                                                                                 
On becoming aware of the scam, Barclays contacted the receiving bank (the account the 
funds were sent to) but unfortunately received a response to say no funds remained. It 
considered Miss Hs claim under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) 
to which it is a signatory. Having done so, it held Miss H liable for the money shed lost to the 
scam. It said sufficient warnings were presented on Barclays Mobile Banking (BMB) prior to 
the payment being made. It also said Miss H hadnt carried out any research on the online 
platform or the landlord. They didnt consider shed taken reasonable steps to satisfy herself 
that the landlord was genuine prior to making the payment. 
Unhappy, Miss H brought her complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into 
things and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. In summary, she didnt think Miss H 
had a reasonable basis for belief at the time of making the payment. She said Miss H had 
accepted that the rent for the property was cheaper than the average rate and required no 
deposit. Our Investigator thought this ought to have raised concerns with Miss H that it was 
an unrealistic deal and ought to have led to her carrying out further checks. She considered 
the price to be too good to be true. She added that Miss H didnt sign any paperwork or 
agreement for the rental property before proceeding to make the payments towards the rent. 
She also thought who Miss H was asked to pay ought to have raised concerns. Overall, our 
Investigator thought there was enough going on that should have led Miss H to ask further 
questions before proceeding to make the payment. 
Our Investigator also thought about whether Barclays had done enough to protect her at the 
time she made the payment. She didnt think the payment Miss H made was so out of 
character or unusual considering the previous account activity that it would have been 
apparent to the bank that she was at risk of financial harm from fraud. As she concluded the 
payment wasnt so unusual or out of character, it followed that she didnt think Barclays 
needed to provide an effective warning. 
Miss H disagreed with our Investigators opinion. In her reply, Miss H said our Investigator 
had neither considered that she was signed off work at the time with depression and anxiety 
nor had she taken into account that she was in the UK and was more vulnerable to the 
circumstances  renting a property abroad when she was in a different country. 
As an agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
Prior to progressing this complaint for a final decision, our Investigator requested further 
information from Miss H, but she didnt respond with any further submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so, I have reached broadly the same conclusions as those of the Investigator 
and for similar reasons. I realise this will be a disappointment for Miss H, so Id like to explain 
why.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss H and I can understand why she wants 
to do all that she can to try and recover the money shes lost. She was tricked into sending 
money for what she believed was an accommodation rental but didnt receive anything in 
return. Shes been left out of pocket as a result of this scam. 
However, the main cause of Miss Hs loss was the fraudster who deceived here. It does not 
necessarily follow that Barclays is responsible for reimbursing her. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
Barclays should have reimbursed Miss H under the provisions of the CRM Code and 
whether it ought to have done more to protect her from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud.
It is accepted that Miss H was tricked into making the payment. She thought she was 
making a payment to secure a property rental abroad. 
But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Miss H to receive a refund of the money under the 
CRM Code. The CRM Code requires a certain level of care to have been taken by Miss H 
too.
The CRM Code 
As Ive mentioned above, Barclays is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances and it is for Barclays to establish that a customer failed to meet 
their requirements under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to fully reimburse a customers loss if it can 
establish that - amongst other things - that customer made the payment without having a 
reasonable basis for believing that:
- the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; 
- the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
- the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Having regard for the requirements of the CRM Code, Ive taken into account all of the 
circumstances of this case, which includes Miss Hs knowledge and wider circumstances as well as the complexity of the scam. I think the concerns Barclays has raised about whether 
Miss H had a reasonable basis for belief about the points listed above are sufficient to 
support its position that she failed to meet her requirements under the CRM Code in making 
the payment she did. Ill explain why.
Ive carefully considered the price Miss H was paying for the property/apartment abroad. I 
understand the payment of £1,450 was for one months rent. Ive not been provided with a 
copy of the advert or property information Miss H wanted to rent. From what Ive seen and 
been told, the apartment was in the area she wished to relocate to. In her submissions to us, 
Miss H said the property was reasonably well priced  acknowledging that it was cheaper 
than others. But Im mindful that she also commented that she couldnt find properties in her 
budget. Miss H told our Investigator that she wasnt familiar with the prices abroad, but her 
friend had suggested the apartment might be cheaper because it was not luxurious (more 
old fashioned). Our Investigator reached out to Miss H to ask more questions about her 
friends comments and whether this was the same friend who had recommended the website 
to her. She also enquired whether this friend lived in the country Miss H was looking to 
relocate to. Unfortunately, Miss H hasnt replied to this request for information, although I 
note from other information shes provided that shes referred to a friend who wasnt living in 
the same location as the one she was moving to. 
With all this in mind, Ive based my findings on the evidence available to me and on the 
balance of probabities - that is what I think is more likely than not. Having done so, Im 
persuaded Miss H more likely than not had a reasonable degree of knowledge of the rental 
prices abroad, given that shes told us shed spent time looking for rental properties on the 
website  which appears to have been across a number of weeks. Shes told us she 
continued to search for properties after her initial contact with the landlord and up to when 
she contacted them back. Im persuaded it was recognised by Miss H that the advertised 
price was cheaper than other properties shed seen, by her own testimony. I think this ought 
to have prompted her to act more cautiously than she did. While there has been reference to 
comments made by her friend on this aspect, in the absence of any further details providing 
further clarity to this, Im afraid I dont find this changes my conclusions on this point. I also 
havent seen anything that suggests Miss H questioned the price being what it was with the 
landlord. 
Further, Miss H explained that she didnt sign any contract or receive any 
documentation/paperwork in relation to the rental of the property. She added that, as shed 
found the property on the website recommended by her friend, which was part of a big 
group, she fully trusted it was a marketplace where landlords advertised properties. I accept 
that a friends recommendation would have provided her with some degree of reassurance. 
And while I can also understand her personal position regarding the website, Im not 
persuaded it automatically follows that all the properties advertised are genuine or verified 
unless expressly stated. 
In this case, I do accept it wasnt possible for Miss H to view the property in person, as she 
was in the UK at the time and the property was abroad. But it appears in this case that 
Miss H seemingly accepted and took what the fraudster had told her at face value. I think 
there were factors here that ought to have led Miss H to a greater degree of checking and a 
more cautious approach. 
Miss H commented that, due to her profession, she took lots of steps to protect herself and 
read everything. But here, shes told us she didnt receive any paperwork, that there werent 
many steps she could take to verify the legitimacy of the landlord, but she thought it was all 
genuine. She said this was because, the pictures of the apartment were good, there was a 
description of it, and the apartment was advertised on a big platform where she had 
expected the platform to have verified the advertisement as genuine. Ive considered this carefully, but as explained above, I think there were factors present that ought to have fairly 
and reasonably prompted her to have taken further steps to satisfy herself of the legitimacy 
of the person she was transacting with. 
Miss H told us shed attempted to make the payment via the well-known property rental 
website that shed been directed to, but this didnt work. Miss H says it was suggested that 
she make the payment by bank transfer. Our Investigator asked Miss H what happened on 
this website, whether Miss H initiated the customer support chat and, asked her what she 
was told. She also asked Miss H how she received the account details she made the bank 
transfer to. In the absence of a response to these questions, Im unable to fully understand 
exactly what happened here. So, I can only reach a finding based on the available evidence. 
In earlier submissions, Miss H said she did question why the payment was being made to a 
UK account when she was looking to make a payment for a rental abroad. Miss H says she 
was told that the landlord was now living in the UK having returned. Miss H told us that this 
didnt raise any alarm. Ive thought carefully about this, but I note the payment was made to 
an account name that was different to the person Miss H was in contact with - believed was 
the landlord, the website her friend recommended or the well-known website she was 
directed to. And while I accept it is possible that the owner of a property might no longer live 
in the same country as the property, I still think Miss H ought to have been concerned about 
who she was being asked to make the payment to. I think this ought to have fairly and 
reasonably prompted her to ask further questions to satisfy herself that she was paying who 
she expected to pay. 
With everything in mind, on balance, Im not persuaded the steps Miss H took gave her a 
reasonable basis for believing she was dealing with a legitimate person or that the payment 
was for genuine goods or services, and so the exception to reimbursement under the CRM 
Code has been fairly applied by Barclays. 
That said, I have considered Miss Hs comments about her wellbeing and mental state at the 
time. Miss H doesnt consider our Investigator took into account that shed been signed off 
work at this time. So, Ive also thought about whether Miss H might have met the CRM 
Codes definition of a vulnerable customer at the time of the payment. If that were the case, 
then Barclays would be required to reimburse Miss H regardless of the applicability of the 
CRM Codes exceptions. 
Miss H has suggested that she was vulnerable at the time of the scam. Shes told us she 
was signed off at the time from work due to suffering depression and anxiety. Shes also said 
she was in the UK at the time and not in the country where she was looking to rent the 
property. Miss H has referred to those living abroad being more aware of what was 
happening and so she was in a vulnerable position. 
Having carefully considered the information provided  what Miss H has said  I find on 
balance that she did not meet the CRM Codes definition of vulnerability. As explained by our 
Investigator, the CRM Code defines vulnerability as circumstances where the victim couldnt 
reasonably have been expected to protect themselves from the scam. 
While I accept Miss H circumstances may have made things more difficult for her, I dont find 
it more likely than not that she was vulnerable to the extent that it wouldnt have been 
reasonable to expect her to have protected herself. I say this because, Miss H by her own 
testimony took her time searching properties and wasnt pressured by the need to make an 
immediate decision. She herself said there were weeks between the emails she sent to the 
landlord and the time she got back in touch with them. I want to emphasise though that this is not to underestimate the circumstances she was in at 
the time, or the subsequent impact the scam has had on her. It is simply that I dont find the 
evidence would justify a finding that Miss H was unable to have taken further steps to protect 
herself here. I dont find Barclays assessment under the CRM Code was unfair or 
unreasonable.
Should Barclays have done anything else to prevent the scam?
Good industry practice requires that regulated firms such as Barclays engage in the 
monitoring of customer accounts and to be on the lookout for suspicious or out of character
transactions with an aim of preventing fraud and protecting customers from financial harm.
And under the CRM Code, where it identified a risk of a customer falling victim to an APP
scam, it was required to provide that customer with an effective warning.
We now know, with the benefit of hindsight, that Miss H was falling victim to a scam. But
based on the information that was available to it at the time, I dont consider Barclays 
wouldve had any reasonable basis for coming to that conclusion. Having reviewed her 
transaction history for the period leading up to the scam, Im not persuaded that the payment 
would have stood out as out of character or unusual  whilst I recognise the payment was a 
lot of money to Miss H, Im not persuaded the amount of the payment was so remarkable 
given the previous account activity that it ought to have caused Barclays concern. 
I note Miss H has commented that previous payments were made to existing payees and 
other accounts she held for herself. While the scam payment was made to a new payee, I 
dont find this in and of itself indicative that Miss H was falling victim to a scam in the 
absence of any other factors. Here, the payment Miss H made was not too dissimilar to 
previous payments shed made  with there being a previous payment for £1,700 in 
June 2021. The payment also didnt clear the account balance  something which would be 
a strong indicator of fraud risk. So overall, I dont find the payment so remarkable that it 
ought to have put Barclays on notice that Miss H was at risk of financial harm from fraud.  
Im mindful Barclays in its final response letter say sufficient warnings were presented on 
BMB prior to the payment being made. But, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont 
think the CRM Code required that Barclays display an effective warning as part of the 
payment process, and Im not persuaded it wouldve had any grounds for intervening to 
question the payment with Miss H before allowing it to be processed. 
All in all, I cant reasonably conclude that the payment should have stood out enough from 
Miss Hs previous account usage for Barclays to have been concerned that she might have 
been at risk of financial harm from fraud. It follows that Im satisfied Barclays is not obliged to 
refund Miss H the money she lost on the grounds that it didnt provide an effective warning.
Once it was made aware of the scam, the available evidence shows Barclays acted quickly 
and appropriately to try to recover the funds Miss H had sent, but no funds remained to be 
recovered. Unfortunately, it is not unusual that scammers will quickly move funds on leaving 
nothing to be retrieved and the evidence supports that being the case here. 
Based on the evidence available to me I dont think there is anything further I could 
reasonably have expected from Barclays in the attempts it made here to recover Miss Hs 
lost money.
In saying this, I want to reiterate that I am extremely sorry to hear about what happened to 
Miss H, and I am sorry she has lost out. But I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for the 
actions of the fraudster here. I can only look at its assessment of Miss Hs fraud claim under 
the CRM Code and any other obligations it had at the time.For the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied Barclays considered her claim 
appropriately under the CRM Code and isnt liable to refund her for any other reason.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Hs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman