DRN-3839500
The complaint
Miss M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) gave her incorrect information  on 
accessing and moving funds from her account and took too long to transfer money for her. 
She would like more compensation than the £250 HSBC has offered.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Miss Ms frustration. As I understand it when she switched her current 
account from HSBC  to another provider she had to close her savings account which 
was dependent on having a current account with HSBC. There is no dispute that it 
took over two weeks for Miss M to transfer her funds to another provider. HSBC  has 
acknowledged this , apologised and offered £250 compensation for the for 
inconvenience. I do think its appropriate for Miss M to get some compensation for 
the time taken to transfer her funds.
Miss M has told us in the past she had received more compensation than the £250 
HSBC has offered and made the point that the money she wanted to transfer was a 
significant sum. She would like £500 compensation. I dont know the details of any 
previous payments Miss M has received but just because a previous payment was 
higher doesnt mean the sum HSBC has offered here is wrong. 
I dont doubt that the transfer caused some distress and inconvenience for Miss M 
apart from the delay in the transfer it seems she had numerous contacts with HSBC 
to effect the transfer, was told it would be done by a certain time and wasnt and had 
had to contact HSBC to progress her complaint. I think HSBC has adequately 
acknowledged this in its offer of £250 compensation. 
I have considered if there are other factors that I can consider with regard to 
compensation but I dont think there are. Based on all the information I have seen I 
think HSBC has made a fair offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made a fair offer.
In full and final settlement, if it has not done so already, HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Miss 
M £250 compensation for the inconvenience incurred  in transferring her funds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman