DRN-4011312
The complaint
Mr A complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) caused delays when 
dealing with a claim under his motor insurance policy. He also says their communication with 
him was poor.
What happened
Mr A was involved in a car accident on 30 July 2022, he made a claim under his motor 
insurance policy with Admiral. They referred the car to an approved repairer (AR) who 
advised before inspecting that the car could potentially be a total loss, based on the level of 
front-end damage. So, it was decided that one of Admirals engineers would look at the 
photos of the car to decide if it would be a total loss or if they would go ahead and repair the 
car, no quotation for repairs had been completed at that time. 
On 4 August 2022 Mr A called to get an update on the status of his claim and was told 
Admiral were waiting for the AR to send through the pictures for an engineer to consider. Mr 
A said he would also send copies of the pictures to Admiral. 
Mr A called Admiral again on 6 August 2022, to ask for the engineers decision on his claim. 
As this was a Saturday the engineer wasnt available and so he asked for a call back on the 
Monday. 
On 8 August 2022 at lunchtime Mr A called Admiral to say he hadnt had the requested call 
back and he wanted to know the status of the claim. Admiral told him that the file was waiting 
to be allocated to an engineer to be reviewed, they explained the timescales for this to him 
but said they had marked it as urgent.  Mr A called back a further two times the same day 
asking for an answer on his claim.
On 10 August Admirals engineer said that it was possible they may be able to complete a 
repair on Mr As car and wanted the AR to provide a quotation so this could be decided. Mr 
A was informed of this when he called in on the same day.
The approved repairer provided a quotation for repairs on 12 August 2022, this was passed 
back to Admirals engineer to review. Mr A called again on the same day for an update and 
also raised a complaint. He said Admiral were delaying his claim and that communication 
was poor, he said he wasnt getting updates from them unless he called in and when he did 
call, there were long wait times.
On 15 August 2022, Admiral deemed Mr As car a total loss and let him know, they told him 
a salvage agent (SA) would be in contact with him to collect his car and in the meantime the 
total loss team would work on valuing his car and would be in touch. 
On 17 August 2022, Mr A called for an update and was told the total loss team were still 
working on his claim. The provided him with an offer on 18 August 2022.
On 24 August 2022, Mr A called to ask when his car would be collected by the SA. Admiral 
contacted the SA who said they had tried to call Mr A a few times but hadnt been able to 
reach him as the calls went to voicemail.
Admiral contacted Mr A by email, as they were also unable to reach him by phone and the 
collection was arranged and the claim was settled by 1 September 2022.
Admiral upheld Mr As complaint to them admitting some delays and lacking communication, 
they awarded £150 compensation for this, and said if he had suffered any extra expenses 
due to the delay, they would be happy to consider them.
Mr A wasnt happy with this response and so brought his complaint to this service. He said 
the compensation offered was insulting. He said as Admiral hadnt taken his car into a 
garage, thy hadnt provided him with a courtesy car. Which meant he had to borrow a family 
members car to be able to get to work. He said this had cost him circa £300 in fuel. He also 
said it had caused inconvenience to his family member and he had given the car back to 
them before his settlement was paid to him, so he had to buy another car. He also said the 
stress of this had affected his mental health.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint in summary he said:
Mr As policy didnt provide for a courtesy in a total loss situation so, Admiral hadnt 
done anything wrong here in not providing one.
Mr As fuel bill was not an extra expense as he would always have had to pay for 
fuel, either with his own car or with a courtesy car.
He didnt think the overall length of time to settle the claim was exceptionally long 
and Admiral had accepted there were some delays and poor communication and the 
compensation they had offered for that was fair and in line with our approach. 
Mr A disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read and considered the whole file, Ive reached the same outcome as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain, but in doing so Ill keep my 
comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point, its not because I 
havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the 
right outcome.
Under the Damages section the terms and conditions of the policy say:
IMPORTANT
If we instruct an approved repairer or another company to provide you with a 
courtesy car, it will be covered under your insurance policy. A courtesy car will not be 
provided until the repairs have been authorised.
As repairs were never authorised for Mr As car, he was never entitled to a courtesy car 
under the policy so Admiral didnt need to provide him with one, as such I cant fairly say 
they did anything wrong here. Because of his car being a total loss, there was always going 
to be a time where Mr A was going to be without a car. However, I do think it took longer than it should have to decide Mr As car was a total loss. I 
believe based on what the AR had already said Admirals engineer could have made the 
decision on this when he looked at the photos of the damage on 10 August 2022. So, I think 
there was an unnecessary seven day delay caused here. 
 
Mr A has explained that he borrowed a car from a family member and during the time he 
was without his car he spent circa £300 on fuel getting backwards and forward to work. He 
told us this was not only inconvenient for him but also for the family member. 
While I do understand this caused inconvenience to Mr A, Im unable to consider an 
inconvenience to his family member as there is no cover under the policy for this.
Mr A would always have had to pay for fuel whether it was for the family members car, his 
own car or a courtesy car if he had been entitled to one. So, I dont consider this to be an 
additional expense that he incurred as a result of the claim. It follows that I dont think 
Admiral needed to cover the cost of this or take it into account when compensating him.
Mr A did make numerous calls to Admiral, and Ive seen at least two occasions where he 
should have been called back but wasnt. On both of those occasions he called in again on 
the day Admiral were supposed to him. So, its impossible for me to know if Admiral would 
have made those calls had he not intervened, but Admiral have accepted they could have 
communicated better here and so Ive not looked into that matter further.
Mr A was also upset at call waiting times, which I understand can be frustrating, but I can 
see he was able to make use of other ways of communicating such as web chat to 
communicate with Admiral. And while he was clearly anxious to get his claim progressed 
and felt he needed to call as often as he did, there were times when he called two or three 
times on a given day and I dont agree that was needed to help move the claim forward. 
Ive thought carefully about how Admiral have compensated Mr A and while I completely 
empathise with the frustration Mr A felt during the claim process, Ive had to also consider 
that following any accident there is always an element of inconvenience dealing with a claim.
We would normally expect a claim of this nature to be settled in three or four weeks. And in 
Mr As case the time frame was outside of this by a few days, which ties in with the delay 
mentioned above. Ive also considered that the SA said they had tried to contact Mr A to 
arrange collection of his car but werent able to. This leads me to say Mr A was without his 
car or settlement of it for a maximum of seven days longer than necessary. Mr A did have 
the use of another car during that time so we wouldnt expect Admiral to compensate him for 
loss of use during this time, but had he not had the use of a car we would say that £10 per 
day would have been fair.
Given Admiral awarded £150 for the delay and the poor communication, Im satisfied their 
award is reasonable and in line with what Id have expected in the circumstances.
I know Mr A will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Admiral can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman