DRN-3983801
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the service he has received from Brewin Dolphin Limited (BDL) in the 
management of his investment portfolio. He says he has lost a significant amount of money 
and the worry has impacted on his health. 
What happened
Mr P has been a client of BDL since 2007. His portfolio has always been managed on a 
discretionary basis. He held an investment account and a stocks and shares ISA. Over the 
years Mr P added additional funds to his account.
In 2022 Mr P became concerned about the performance of his portfolio and inaction on his 
account and he didnt think he was receiving the service that he should, so raised a 
complaint with BDL.
BDL responded. It outlined the recent service Mr P had received and said;
Sales had taken place on his account in March 2021 to utilise his capital gains tax 
(CGT) allowance for the year and investment was made in his ISA to use his 
2020/21 allowance. 
Further funds were added to the portfolio in May 2021 and were invested between 
May and June in line with the risk strategy and approach previously agreed. 
No additional action was taken until March 2022 when further trades took place to 
use the CGT and ISA allowances. Although no further trades were made in that nine-
month period, the portfolio remained in line with his requirements. 
Mr P was concerned about the lack of proactivity and had referred to the shares 
where the price had risen and then fallen back. But BDL confirmed trades can be 
made for several reasons and the portfolio was managed over the longer rather than 
shorter term.
BDL detailed the contact it had had with Mr P from August 2020 to March 2022. It 
didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint about portfolio management and general 
service/contact. 
There was a delay in the transfer of £12,500 in February 2022 and BDL apologised 
as it concluded that additional communication with Mr P would have avoided any 
confusion. 
Overall, BDL didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr P wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator who considered the complaint reviewed Mr Ps account with BDL since its 
inception and thought it should be upheld. He said;
He outlined the history, values, and risk levels of Mr Ps account since it opened in 
2007.
Mr Ps attitude to risk (ATR) had become riskier since 2010 and the investigator 
didnt think Mr P would have been comfortable with this. 
The benchmarks aligned to those risk levels and the assets Mr P was exposed to 
didnt match his medium risk profile that was agreed to and overall, the portfolio 
management wasnt suitable for him. 
Mr P had complained about when BDL had sold his holding of InterContinental 
Hotels Group, but the investigator explained the portfolio was managed on a 
discretionary basis and any trades were at the discretion of the manager. 
He couldnt see that Mr P had suffered any loss because of the delay in the cash 
transfer. 
The investigator was satisfied that reviews were carried out on a regular basis. 
To put the matter right the investigator thought BDL should compare the performance 
of Mr Ps portfolio with the FTSE Private Investors Income Total Return Index and 
pay him the difference if he had suffered a loss during the period his portfolio was 
with BDL.
BDL should also pay Mr P £250 for the distress and inconvenience he had been 
caused. 
BDL didnt agree with the outcome and made further submissions about the risk profile for 
Mr Ps portfolio and when those changes had occurred. Mr P also made additional comment 
about the losses and the charges he had incurred.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first say that I havent addressed every point that Mr P has raised. I dont mean any 
discourtesy by this, but I am focusing my consideration on the crux of the complaint. 
After doing so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. I think the risk Mr P was exposed to was unnecessarily high for his 
investment objectives and his portfolio was invested outside of the investment remit for those 
risk profiles which I dont think was right for Mr P. I will explain why. 
Mr P opened his account with BDL in 2007. I have a copy of the handwritten completed 
Account Opening Form. At the time Mr P was single and employed earning under £30,000 
per year. He had property valued at £225,000 with a mortgage attached of £67,000 and he 
held PEPs/ISAs. He invested £75,000.
Clearly Mr P was seeking a discretionary investment service because he didnt have the 
knowledge or experience to make his own investment decisions. BDL needs to be able to 
demonstrate that it made suitable investments under the discretionary mandate taking into 
account the agreed attitude to risk and investment objectives.
Without any investment experience  with the exception of small holdings of Lloyds and BT 
Group valued at around £2,000 which were held outside of the portfolio  Mr P would have 
been totally reliant upon BDL to make suitable investments on his behalf. Its recorded that 
his investment objective was for capital growth. And from the information I have, I think its 
the case that Mr P did want to make his money grow more than it would have done in 
savings.But I havent seen sufficient documentary evidence to satisfy myself that BDL invested       
Mr Ps portfolio in line with a level of risk that I think he was prepared to take bearing in mind 
the initial funds were new to Mr P as a result of a gift from his mother during her lifetime and 
then later the funds he inherited from her estate. 
Its clear at the beginning of the relationship in 2007 that it was agreed Mr P was a medium 
risk investor. Any income was to be reinvested and Mr P didnt envisage taking any capital 
out, so the funds were available for longer term investment. Mr P felt that any of the funds 
his mother gave to him during her lifetime remained hers as he wanted to be in the position 
to provide her with financial help if needed. 
Mr P opted for a discretionary service with a balanced return between income and growth. At 
the time BDL had three risk categories, low, medium, and high risk. Mr P chose a medium 
attitude to risk which was defined in the document as;
May incorporate direct equity investment in larger or medium sized companies, fixed 
interest securities and Collective Investment Schemes. The portfolio may contain a 
proportion in smaller companies or less liquid investments. 
I think Mr Ps classification and the above definition wasnt an unreasonable reflection of    
Mr Ps requirements or the type of investment that would be suitable for a medium risk 
investor. 
The change to Mr Ps investment profile occurred in March 2010 when BDL wrote to him 
with New Client Risk Categories. It explained that this was being done to increase the 
number of risk categories which it hoped would improve its customers understanding and 
choice in the level of risk taken and types of assets it may recommend for clients portfolios. 
It said the new categories bore no relation to the previous categories. 
At a result of the new categories Mr P was classified as a Progressive Risk investor and the 
portfolio was comprised of circa 12% in cash and fixed interest, with the balance invested in 
global equities and other investments. The Progressive Risk investor was looking for a total 
return from the portfolio with the bias towards capital appreciation. Under the New Risk 
Categories Mr Ps Progressive Risk profile equated to BDLs new Growth Return category. 
The portfolio was to be measured against the APCIMS Growth index, but Mr P was told the 
portfolio would continue to be managed for his individual needs rather than the strict 
requirements of the benchmark. A guide was enclosed with the letter about the new profiles 
and benchmarks. 
BDL has given us a copy of a file note further to a discussion with Mr P in June 2010. His 
mother had transferred some further funds to him and the file note suggests that during that 
discussion it was stressed to Mr P that he had to be happy with the strategy of investing in 
the stock market and if he felt it was too much risk, he shouldnt do it. Unless the adviser 
heard otherwise, he would continue to drip feed into the market and look to achieve returns 
over the next five to ten years but the advisers overriding concern was meeting their 
objectives. 
But Mr P wasnt an experienced or knowledgeable investor. I think he would have been 
reliant on BDL to choose the right risk profile for him when the new ones were introduced, 
and which would have been similar to what had previously been agreed. While its clear that 
Mr P was happy to invest in the stock market and for the longer term with a requirement for 
growth, I dont think it was necessary to expose him to such a level of risk as a Progressive 
risk investor in order to achieve his investment objectives. I think Mr Ps lack of investment experience meant that he trusted BDL and the decisions it made on his behalf, both for the 
classification of the risk he was prepared to take plus the underlying investment decisions. 
Mr P was given an update by BDL on 4 April 2012 which confirmed that Mr P was still a 
Progressive Risk investor. 
The December 2012 terms and conditions show that BDLs risk profiles ranged from (a) 
Cautious with Lower Risk through to (e) Aggressive Total Return - High Risk. The Growth 
Return or Progressive Risk that Mr P was categorised as being was fourth out of the list of 
five, the second highest risk rating. 
The description for clients in this category said;
Clients in this category understand that the level of potential return on their 
investment should increase as a result of taking greater risk. They understand that to 
achieve the potential for higher returns, their investment could be substantially 
reduced at times, but that over the longer term they could achieve a higher level of 
return than an Income and Growth Return client.
However, as Ive mentioned above, I think BDL could have satisfied Mr Ps investment 
objectives and requirements without exposing him to the level of risk it did. I think a risk 
rating of four out of five to be of a higher level of risk than was necessary for him to take and 
one that he would have been comfortable with. 
The Contact Report further to a phone call dated 13 November 2013 recorded that Mr Ps;
investment time horizon is still 10+ years and his attitude to risk, aims and objectives 
and capacity to bear losses have not changed. [Mr P] has significant capacity for loss 
as he does not need the capital or the income for the portfolio and is taking a long-
term view with his investments. He is not likely to take the capital out any time soon 
but is happy with what we are achieving here with the portfolio.
While I accept that Mr P was happy to take a long-term view with his investment, I disagree 
that he had a significant capacity for loss. This money was important to him. It was money 
given to him by his mother which he said was hard earned by both his mother and father 
during their lifetimes. And I dont think Mr P was in the financial position to recoup a 
significant loss to his capital. He was coming towards the end of his working life and theres 
no indication  with the exception of his house  that Mr P had any other substantial capital 
he could have relied upon. Im not satisfied that such an opinion held by BDL about his 
significant capacity for loss was right taking into account all of his circumstances and the 
origin of the funds invested. 
The April 2015 Client Service Review said that Mr P was still employed but considering 
changing however, nothing was imminent. The portfolio was still managed on a Progressive 
Risk  Growth Return basis. As and when Mr P was to receive inheritance from his mother, 
and potentially consider retirement, his aims and objectives might change. He received an 
additional £50,000 from his mother which was to be invested.
 
Mr Ps investment objectives were recorded as Capital preservation is key at this stage; you 
want to ensure that the cash is not eroded by inflation and is available should your mum 
need it. This suggests to me that even though Mr P wanted growth for the portfolio he 
wouldnt be happy with any risk that wasnt necessary in order to achieve his investment 
objective of growth from a medium risk profit. The September 2016 Investment Review shows Mr P was now classified as a Risk Level 6 
(Moderate Investment Risk)  Capital Growth investor and this continued through to the 
February 2019. By August 2019 Mr Ps mother had unfortunately died and Mr P inherited 
funds and house sale proceeds. At the time its recorded that Mr P still wanted capital growth 
but understandably his aims and objectives may change because of retirement. A further 
£150,000 was invested into Mr Ps portfolio in 2020. 
There was a client meeting in August 2021 and Mr P had recently retired, didnt have a 
mortgage and was in a strong financial position. He had taken his pension of £1,200 per 
month and had invested the pension lump sum with BDL. Mr P didnt need income from the 
portfolio and was happy with the way things were. The advice review document concluded 
that Mr Ps capacity for loss would have little practical impact on his daily life and the risk he 
was exposed to was commensurate with that. 
While I accept that any loss Mr P may have incurred would have little impact on his daily life 
 he was in a financially comfortable position and taking his pension  but I dont think Mr P 
would have felt as comfortable if he had suffered losses. And I think this is made clear by the 
fact that Mr P did raise a complaint which was triggered by the loss in value of his portfolio 
from July 2021 onwards. 
While its recorded throughout the relationship that Mr P understood investment and stock 
market risk, I dont think he fully understood the level of risk that BDL was exposing him to. 
And I say this despite the risk questionnaires he completed as I would question his 
understanding in giving answers because during the relationship with BDL until he made his 
complaint, I cant see he had suffered any significant losses. So, I dont think he would have 
thought too hard about the answers he gave to those questionnaires as overall he trusted 
what BDL were doing for him as he had no reason not to. In any event, I would have 
expected BDL also to have taken into consideration what it knew about Mr P and his 
circumstances and objectives  that was part of its role as discretionary manager. 
I accept that Mr P was looking for capital growth for the majority of the time that he was 
invested. I also accept that the investment manager had discretion to make investment 
decisions outside of BDLs strategic asset allocation and to vary the approach for Mr P. But I 
dont think Mr P would have had the knowledge to have understood the risks implicit in some 
of the investments that were made on his account. 
I say this because of the make-up of Mr Ps portfolio. And which Im satisfied exposed Mr P 
to a higher level of risk than implicit in the categories he was exposed to after the change in 
2010 from medium risk to progressive risk and then onto Risk Level 6. The latter 
categories I think were too high a risk for his investment objectives in any event. Mr Ps 
circumstances and investment objectives suggest to me that he was more suited to a lower 
level of risk than the risk he was exposed to by BDL, such as the medium risk or similar as 
agreed at the outset. 
Ive been given portfolio valuations from April 2012 onwards. Those valuations show that 
from July 2014  with only one exception  Mr Ps portfolio was always underweighted in the 
lower risk category of fixed interest securities compared to the benchmark used. And 
correspondingly it was overweight in equities  both UK and international. While its clear 
that Mr P was happy with a growth mandate for his portfolio, I dont think this should have 
been at the expense of exposure to lower risk investments to the extent that it was. 
And even though I know that BDL commented on the make-up of Mr Ps portfolio in some of 
the correspondence Ive seen and that it was bespoke, I think its more likely that Mr P 
wouldnt have grasped the different types of investment being invested into or the respective 
levels of risk he was exposed to because of that. BDL has referred to the bespoke service it provided but theres nothing to suggest that Mr P needed such a service to invest outside of 
the benchmark his portfolio was compared with or that he ever agreed to it. 
And adding to that risk of the overweight position in equities is the exposure to overseas 
equities compared to the benchmark for UK equities. From July 2015 onwards the valuations 
include both UK and overseas equity investment under the one heading of equities so I cant 
identify the split, but prior to that they were split between the two;
July 2012  Mr Ps UK exposure to UK equities was 19.8% compared to the 
benchmark of 47.5%. Overseas equity exposure was 48.9% while the benchmark 
was 32.5%.
July 2013  UK equity exposure was 28.6% compared to the benchmark of 47.6% 
and the overseas exposure was 49.4% compared to the benchmark of 35%.
July 2014  Mr P was exposed to 35.8% to UK equities while the benchmark was 
45%. The overseas exposure was 48.2% compared to the benchmark of 37.5%.
In its response to the investigator BDL said that it wasnt necessary for Mr P to have 
understood the funds he was investing into. And I dont disagree with that  that was the role 
of BDL acting as discretionary manager. But  and despite Mr P having his account for 
several years  its evident he didnt have much investment knowledge and I think its 
unlikely he would have understood the risks implicit in overweight positions with overseas 
exposure such as political and economic instability, currency fluctuations, and regulatory 
differences.
So while the underweight positions in fixed interest and overweight positions in equities  
particularly overseas equities  might have driven the growth for Mr Ps portfolio, it inevitably 
also posed a downside, and not one that I am satisfied Mr P either fully appreciated or 
needed to take in any event. 
Its clear that Mr P wanted capital growth but not at the expense implicit in the higher levels 
of risk he was exposed to. Overall, and taking into account Mr Bs circumstances, objectives 
and how important this money was to him, I think his money was exposed to risks Im not 
persuaded he was willing or able to take. 
I am satisfied that the risk he was exposed to wasnt suitable for him taking account of his 
personal and financial circumstances that Ive already outlined. The risk he was exposed to 
was in my opinion unnecessarily high for the growth he wanted. The risk profiles were too 
high risk for him in any event and the investments that were made were outside of the 
benchmarks used for those risk profiles, thereby exposing him to additional risk. 
So, and taking all of the above into account, and in the particular circumstances of Mr Ps 
complaint Im upholding it for the reasons given and BDL needs to put the matter right. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put     
Mr P as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr P would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr P's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must BDL do?To compensate Mr P fairly, BDL must:
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
BDL should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mr P £250 for distress caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
portfolio Still exists 
and liquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the BDL should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if BDL 
totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr P's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Brewin Dolphin Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Brewin Dolphin Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr P in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman