DRN-3339584
The complaint and what happened
Mrs N complains Barclays Bank UK PLC wont reimburse money she lost when she fell 
victim to a scam. She also complains that as part of that scam, she took out a loan for 
£50,000 but it didnt do enough checks to ensure it was affordable for her. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Mrs N saw an advert for investing on a social media platform, that was endorsed by a 
well-known celebrity. She was contacted by an agent working for McoinMarket. She 
did some research but didnt find much information about them. She was persuaded 
to invest, with those investments made through Jubiter, a cryptocurrency exchange. 
Between April and July 2019, Mrs N invested around £115,000 with McoinMarket. 
Some of that money came from savings, and she borrowed £50,000 from Barclays in 
June 2019. She told Barclays the money was for home improvements. 
Mrs N tried to send a £50,000 payment to the investment. But the payment was 
suspended by Barclays as it thought it looked suspicious and that she might be being 
scammed. Mrs N was required to go to branch, where she informed staff the money 
was being sent to a friend abroad for home improvements. She says shed been told 
to say that by the agent so there wouldnt be a delay on the funds reaching it. The 
£50,000 payment wasnt made, but Mrs N instead sent approximately a further 
£53,000 in separate, much smaller transactions. 
Mrs N realised she had been the victim of a scam when all of her funds were lost. 
She raised a chargeback claim through Barclays for transactions which occurred 
between May and June 2019 for around £57,000, but that was defended. Barclays 
also said Mrs N had met its lending criteria for the loan. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint is part. Barclays hadnt provided any evidence 
to show it had carried out a proportionate check to ensure the loan was affordable 
and sustainable for Mrs N, and our investigator didnt think it was affordable. So she 
said the capital borrowed should remain payable, but that Barclays should reimburse 
any interest and charges associated with the loan. The investigator didnt uphold Mrs 
Ns complaint in relation to the transactions, as the requisite evidence wasnt 
provided to likely succeed at a chargeback claim, and she didnt find the transactions 
unusual; and when Barclays did intervene, Mrs N gave them a story about the loan 
funds and continued sending money to the scammer. 
Mrs N accepted the outcome. Barclays hasnt yet responded to the view. 
Barclays was informed by our operational contact team that anything that had ben upheld 
would be put on an ombudsmans desk after 25 February 2022. Im satisfied Barclays has 
had sufficient opportunity to consider the view and provide any further submissions. Its now 
appropriate to move this complaint to this final stage. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of this 
complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
A chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by card scheme providers  in this case, 
VISA. It arbitrates on disputes between a customer and a merchant where they 
havent been able to resolve matters themselves. The process is subject to the rules 
of the scheme  which are set by VISA  and there are only limited grounds on which 
a chargeback can be raised. 
Although Mrs N was dealing with a company called McoinMarket, her payments were 
sent to Jubiter, a currency exchange. The service provided by it would be to convert 
Mrs Ns money into cryptocurrency  I understand that service was provided and so 
there wouldnt be any chargeback rights under the scheme. Im afraid her 
subsequent transfer of funds to McoinMarket wouldnt give rise to a valid claim. In the 
event, Barclays did attempt a chargeback, but that was defended. And Mrs N didnt 
meet VISAs deadline to provide further information for Barclays to take that further. 
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if 
theyre duped into making that payment, for example to an investment scam. There is 
no dispute that Mrs N authorised the payments.  
Whilst Barclays, along with other payment services providers, should be monitoring 
accounts and be on the lookout for unusual transactions or other signs of fraud, I 
dont think there was anything so unusual or uncharacteristic about Mrs Ns 
payments that ought to have alerted Barclays that she might have been at risk of 
financial harm. Most of the payments had been for £10,000 or less. And Mrs N had 
received in and made payments out, of similar if not far higher sums, including to 
investments, in the months leading up the payments in dispute. And Mrs N regularly 
made payments to new payees and international payments.
I am aware that Barclays did, in fact, intervene when Mrs N attempted to make a 
payment of £50,000, even though she had made payments of a similar amount in the 
past. And it required Mrs N to attend branch as it thought she might be victim to a 
scam.  But Mrs N wasnt honest with Barclays about where the money was going. I 
appreciate she was told to say what she did by McoinMarkets agent. But this ought 
to have raised suspicions with her, why was there a need to be dishonest, if all was 
above board with her investment? By not being honest she didnt help the bank to 
help her. I therefore dont uphold this part of the complaint.     
I turn now to the loan. Before lending, a lender ought to ensure it has completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself any lending is affordable and 
sustainable. Different amounts of borrowing would result in different types of checks 
being done; for example less checks are likely needed for someone borrowing 
£1,000 than £20,000. Mrs N was borrowing £50,000 and I think most reasonable 
people would agree that outside of a mortgage, that is a substantial sum to borrow. 
Barclays said Mrs N met its criteria to lend. But it hasnt shown what that criteria was 
or how she met it.  Nor has it shown what checks it did to ensure Mrs N could 
sustainably afford the borrowing.  From the limited information we do have - the 
statements - it would appear Mrs N sometimes had disposable income at the end of 
each month but that amount varied and quite often her debits exceeded the credits 
into the account. This loan had a monthly repayment of over £950. Had Barclays 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, I think it would have been clear that 
Mrs N would have struggled to sustainably afford repayments to the loan and so it 
shouldnt have leant. I therefore uphold this part of Mrs Ns complaint. I do, 
nevertheless, need to take into account that Mrs N has had the benefit of the loan 
funds, albeit she lost that money to a scam. I therefore agree the investigators redress recommendation that Barclays doesnt need to write off the loan, but it 
should waive any interest and charges associated with it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ns complaint in part. I require 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Remove any interest applied to the loan  effectively making it interest free. It should 
rework the loan balance as if all payments made to date have been used to reduce 
the capital balance. And Mrs Ns repayments going forward should be purely capital; 
and
Remove or refund any charges that make up any part of the loan balance. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman