DRN-2753071
The complaint
Miss M complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly allowed her to open two credit card 
accounts which were unaffordable.
What happened
Miss M says she opened two NewDay accounts. The first was opened in 2014 and credit 
limit increases were applied until the account was closed in 2016. The second account was 
opened in 2017. Miss M says the lending was unaffordable as she had a gambling problem. 
She would like any charges and interest refunded as well as any adverse information 
removed from her credit file. And 8% interest added to that refund.
NewDay says it acted fairly by opening both accounts and carrying out appropriate checks, 
but it accepts in respect of account one that it shouldnt have increased the credit limit. It has 
refunded interest and charges but says it will not remove any adverse information from Miss 
Ms credit file and will not pay the interest.
Miss M brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought appropriate and 
proportionate checks were carried out when the accounts were opened. But as NewDay 
accepted the credit limit increases on account one were inappropriate then it should pay 8% 
interest on the refund of charges and interest. The investigator also thought any adverse 
information should be removed from Miss Ms credit file.
NewDay doesnt accept that view and says the refunds were offered as a goodwill gesture 
rather than as a result of a mistake. It says no adverse data was recorded on Miss Ms credit 
file.
Miss M accepts the investigators view
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint in part.
Lenders should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any credit applications or 
on any later decisions to increase the credit limit.
There is no real dispute here by Miss M or NewDay that such appropriate checks were 
carried out when both accounts were first opened. And I make clear that I agree that such 
checks were carried out and the initial lending decisions on both accounts were appropriate 
and the offered credit limits relatively low.
I have looked carefully at NewDays final response letter and Im satisfied it accepted it 
shouldnt have allowed the credit limit increases and fairly refunded the interest as well as 
the charges. I find that letter made no mention of them being refunded as a goodwill gesture 
or that the letter suggested NewDay hadnt made a mistake. I think NewDay was clear in 
that response and I dont sure why it now says the payments were as a gesture of goodwill 
or that it may not have made a mistake. I make it clear that I think NewDay accepted it made 
a mistake and I agree with its original decision that the credit limit increases were 
unaffordable.
The only real question for me to consider is if NewDay should do anything further to put 
matters right. This service takes the view that, where as in this case interest and charges are 
refunded to customers, simple interest at 8% should also be paid. I can see no reason why 
NewDay shouldnt pay that interest in circumstances where it accepted it made a mistake.
The investigator recommended the interest should be paid from August 2020 which Miss M 
agrees to and so I will not interfere in that calculation. I appreciate NewDay says no adverse 
information was reported on Miss Ms credit file and so I will not make an order in respect of 
that. I dont think Miss M has provided evidence of any such adverse information in any 
event. 
Putting things right
NewDay should pay 8% simple interest on the refunded balance of £589.28 from 19 August 
2020.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order NewDay Ltd to pay Miss M 
8% simple interest on the refunded amount from 19 August 2020 until payment is made. If 
NewDay Ltd is required to pay tax on that amount to Her Majestys Revenue and Customs, 
then it should provide Miss M with a certificate of that deduction.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman