DRN-3288937
The complaint
Mr J complains that he wasnt aware he was invested in an Instant Savings Account (ISA), 
and he didnt consent to it despite what National Westminster Bank Plc (the business) 
says. 
He also says that he didnt receive a cheque  containing a payment of around £1,400  as 
suggested by the business.   
Mr J says he was mis-sold the ISA. In short, he says the investment was too high risk for an 
inexperienced investor.  
What happened
The business partly upheld the complaint. In short it said that the recommendation was too 
high risk and Mr J shouldve been advised to take a small risk with his investment. So, by 
way of compensation, it offered Mr J redress based on the Bank of England base rate  for 
50% of his investment. 
Otherwise, the business said it followed Mr Js written instructions (dated 25 May 2007) to 
close the investment and issue a cheque containing the proceeds, which it did on 27 May 
2007. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The business provided the point of sale documentation  including a copy of the 
signed application form and recommendation letter  confirming its advice to Mr J. 
He was therefore aware of the investment and agreed to it. 
The business also provided a signed copy of the withdrawal request form dated 25 
May 2007 from Mr J, in which he wrote please send cheque. It also provided a copy 
of the letter sent to him confirming his withdrawal request. 
The business couldnt provide proof of sending the cheque, or more details of where 
it was cashed, but the account balance is now nil. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, hes satisfied that the cheque was sent, 
received and cashed by Mr J. 
The confirmation letter suggests that Mr J wouldve been expecting a cheque for 
£1,452. If he didnt receive the cheque, its likely that he wouldve raised an issue. 
The above notwithstanding, Mr J shouldnt have been advised to take any risk with 
his money, let alone take a high risk. Therefore, the business should calculate 
redress using the average rate from fixed rate bonds for the entire investment. 
The above notwithstanding, he thinks the business offer to pay £100 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience, plus £18 for the financial loss  based on the low 
risk benchmark  is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Mr J disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In short, he said: 
He wanted more evidence that the cheque was cashed.  
He was unwilling to accept the investigators view until he saw proof of payment.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Theres no direct evidence of the cheque being cashed, however there was evidence 
from the business of a cheque being requested and subsequently sent. So, in the 
circumstances, its likely that the cheque was received, or it wouldve been chased up 
at the time. 
The business partly agreed with the investigators view. In summary it said theres enough 
evidence to show that on balance the cheque was issued and received. If the cheque had 
gone missing, Mr J wouldve contacted the business, but he didnt, which suggests he 
received the cheque. It has no control over which account the customer uses if they have 
other accounts. However, it maintains that its redress is fair in the circumstances. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint. 
Whilst on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that Mr J didnt know 
that he was investing in an ISA in 2005, or that he didnt agree to this, on balance Im 
satisfied its more likely, than not, he received and cashed the cheque in response to his 
written instructions to close the investment in 2007.   
The above notwithstanding, I dont think the recommendation was suitable for Mr J. In the 
circumstances, and on balance, I agree with the investigators recommendation to award 
redress based on the no-risk benchmark. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Js strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry that hes suffering 
from poor health. 
Mr Js provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr J, and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats  on a balance of probabilities  more likely than not to have happened.
Although Mr J now says that he wasnt aware of investing in the ISA, on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely than not that he was at the point of 
sale in 2005.  In my opinion, the meeting with the business, signed application form and policy 
documentation, including the recommendation letter, make reasonably clear that he was 
investing in an ISA. 
I note the recommendation letter  address to Mr J and his wife at the time  dated June 
2005, states: 
Your attention is drawn to these important points
A maxi ISA has been recommended, as you anticipate paying in a lump sum later this year, 
and want the facility to contribute up to £7,000. 
I have fully explained the difference between MAXI and MINI ISAs, including subscription 
limits. As you have now made an investment into a Maxi ISA this means that, for the current 
tax year, you cannot, in addition, subscribe to a Mini ISA. You also confirmed to me that you 
do not have any other ISAs in the current tax year with any other managers. This new ISA is 
the first and only one you will be investing in this tax year.
If Mr J didnt read the documentation or misunderstood the advice  but didnt raise an issue 
at the time  I cant blame the business for this. I also think its likely he agreed to invest £80 
a month into the ISA, so I think its likely he knew, or ought reasonably to have known, where 
the money was going every month. 
In my opinion, any suggestion that the business did all this without Mr Js authority or 
knowledge and he simply didnt know (so didnt raise any concern) is unlikely. Despite what 
Mr J now says, he hasnt explained why he thought he wasnt investing in an ISA at the time. 
I appreciate its possible that Mr J may now not recall what he invested in (16 years ago), but 
if thats the case, I cant blame the business for this. Im mindful that hes been through a lot 
over the years. 
But just because the business cant now provide proof of the cheque being sent, doesnt 
mean that it wasnt. In this instance, and on balance, I think its more likely (than not) that in 
2007 the business sent Mr J the cheque in response to his written signed instructions to do 
so, as well as subsequently sending him a confirmation letter to his address - that it had on 
file. 
I note Mr J says hes unwilling to accept the investigators view unless he sees proof of 
payment. But given the passage of time  16 years since the advice was given and 14 years 
since the investment was closed  Im not surprised that the business is unable to provide 
more information about this investment and payment. So, I cant blame the business for not 
being able to do so.  
According to what Mr J says, he spent two years paying £80 a month into the investment  
but without knowing what he was paying for  and after asking the business to end the 
investment  and ceasing to pay the monthly contributions  he then didnt get anything. I 
think its unlikely that Mr Js memory of what happened in 2007 is accurate as it is very 
unlikely that he would have done nothing if he didnt get the money he was expecting. I think 
it is more likely than not he would have chased up the business if he didnt get the money at 
the time. 
Im mindful Mr J says that he didnt have an account set up at the time, although this might 
explain why he asked for a cheque, as it would have enabled him to cash his money 
anywhere that he wanted. Just because there isnt evidence of where he cashed the cheque, doesnt mean that he didnt do so. Im mindful that his account balance with the business is 
nil, which would suggest that the cheque was cashed. 
Even if I were to accept that the cheque went missing  which I dont  I dont accept that Mr 
J wouldnt have received the letter confirming his instructions, and therefore wouldnt have 
raised an issue if the instructions werent from him, or if the investment was news to him. In 
any case, on balance I dont accept that having paid into the investment for two years he 
simply didnt notice anything at all.  
In my opinion, any suggestion that the request to cancel the investment containing Mr Js 
signature wasnt from him but coincided with Mr J deciding to stop paying into the investment 
when the cheque was cashed without his knowledge or authority, is highly unlikely. On the 
face of the evidence, and on balance, Ive seen nothing to suggest that there was any 
fraudulent action in this case. 
The above notwithstanding, I dont think that Mr J shouldve been advised to take a risk with 
his investment. In other words, I agree with the investigator that redress should be calculated 
using the average rate from fixed rate bonds, for the whole of Mr Js investment, with 8% 
interest added to any loss.  
I note it was recorded that Mr J was in his mid-50s, married, employed but planned to retire 
at 65 years of age. He (purportedly) had a net disposable monthly income of around £1,500 
and had recently bought into a franchise business. His wife had no income of her own. 
It was also recorded that Mr J was concerned about not having any significant savings or a 
pension and hoped to build capital in advance of his retirement. He wanted to save for 10 
years and add a lump sum to his investment in future. He also hoped to pay off his mortgage 
from a property sale. But Mr J also needed an emergency fund of £5,000, but he only had 
£2,000 saved, and there was a shortfall of £17,300 a year on the required retirement income 
and actual expected retirement income.
It was also recorded that Mr Js attitude was a middle of the road approach where the 
investment is diversified to spread risk and that he was willing to accept fluctuations, but in 
the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think that was correct or accurate. I note he was 
therefore advised to invest in the Balanced Fund which I dont think was suitable for Mr J 
either and carried risk. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, given Mr Js uncertain financial circumstances he 
shouldnt have been advised to put his money at risk. Im mindful that he was the 
breadwinner, hed just invested in a new business, he had an outstanding mortgage that 
hed hope to pay off before retirement, and he had a shortfall in the required emergency 
funds. 
Im also aware that despite his disposable monthly income, he said he had a budget of £160 
which would suggest that it probably wasnt an accurate picture of his finances at the time, 
and that on balance his finances were far more strained. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think redress should be calculated using the no risk 
benchmark, as suggested by the investigator. That said, Im mindful that Mr J isnt due any 
money as a result of the calculations carried out by the business, nevertheless I think its a 
fair outcome in the circumstances. 
I note the investigator, despite having suggested that the business should calculate redress 
using the no-risk benchmark, also thinks the business recommendation for redress is fair. If 
the business still wishes to pay Mr J £18.41 compensation based on its own calculation, thats a matter for the business. In the circumstances its not something I can ask it to do. 
That said, I think the £100 compensation offered for the distress and inconvenience caused 
is broadly fair and reasonable.  
I appreciate Mr J will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive not given him what he wants. But on 
the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and 
give Mr J what he wants.
Putting things right
National Westminster Bank Plc should calculate and pay redress using the average rate 
from fixed rate bonds benchmark, with 8% simple interest on any loss. 
National Westminster Bank Plc should also pay Mr J £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, if it hasnt done so already. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr J redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman