DRN-4208430
Complaint
Mr G has complained about a personal loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable and was therefore irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr G with a loan for £4,386.00 in July 2022. This loan had an APR 
of 58.4% and a term of 60 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£11,340.00, including interest, fees and charges of £6,954.00, was due to be repaid in 60 
monthly instalments of just under £190. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Gs complaint and she thought that Everyday Loans 
ought to have realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr G with his loan. So she thought that 
Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. 
Everyday Loans didnt agree so the case was passed to an ombudsman for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Gs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr G could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before Mr Gs loan was provided. The results of which showed that Mr G was already using 
a significant proportion of his monthly income to repay existing credit commitments. 
Im also concerned that Everyday Loans relied on the use of average data to calculate             
Mr Gs living expenses when arriving at its monthly disposable income figure. This is despite 
the fact that Mr Gs credit file showed and the bank statements Everyday Loans obtained 
clearly showed that he didnt fit the profile of the average borrower. 
Indeed, Everyday Loans own underwriting notes state that Mr Gs bank statements showed 
high risk and irregular transactions inconsistent with its statistical data. And even then I dont 
think its unfair to say that the repayments to this loan would be taking Mr G right to the limit 
of what Everyday Loans considered to be his disposable income.
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr G has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Gs financial position reflected his 
choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 
Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Gs version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Gs existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr G. 
As Everyday Loans provided Mr G with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr G ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr G lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong and that 
it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr G
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr G by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr G paid on his loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr G to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information recorded about this loan from Mr Gs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman