DRN-3707363
The complaint
Mr Bs representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on his behalf that
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Lloyds Bank PLC.
In summary, the CMC says:
Mr B was exposed to too much risk, given his lack of investment experience.
The fund currently holds 55.73% in equities, and the remainder in cash and bonds, 
therefore the decision to invest in the fund was inappropriate.
What happened
In late August 2022, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms part of my final decision. In the decision I said:
provisionally Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says Im unable to
safely say that the recommendation to invest in the OEIC  invested in the portfolio  was
unsuitable for Mr B.
The CMC has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and
considered carefully. However, I hope that Mr B wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by the CMC, and Lloyds, and reach what I think is an independent,
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, I think the advice
to invest in the portfolio was broadly suitable for Mr B. I note that he was in his early-40s,
married and in employment with a reasonable income and net monthly disposable income. I
note he had no plans to retire until he reached the age of 65 and so had a longer-term
investment horizon.
I note he had almost £27,000 in savings from both personal and joint savings with his wife.
He had no financial dependents, debts or liabilities and wanted investment advice regarding
the future  Im satisfied he was in a reasonable position to invest.
Its fair to say that certain questions were asked of Mr B to arrive at the conclusion that he
was a balanced risk investor, out of secure, cautious, balanced, progressive,
adventurous and specialist risk categories. I note balanced was the third of the risk
categories and there were three higher risk categorises ahead of it. In the circumstances,
and on balance, Im satisfied that Mr Bs risk appetite was discussed and that he was willing
to take a balanced risk approach  in the medium to long term  with a portion of his money
to meet his objective.
I note balanced risk was defined by Lloyds as follows:
A Balanced approach means investments carry a risk of loss of capital value but have the
potential for capital growth and/or income over the medium to long term. Typically they do
not have any guarantees and will fluctuate in capital value.
It could be argued that a balanced risk was reasonable and maybe necessary given his
objective to achieve better returns over the medium to long term, and higher returns than he
wouldve got in a bank account (to beat inflation).
Despite what the investigator says about the asset allocation in 2011, its not clear what it
was in 2008/9, so in the circumstances, Im not persuaded to uphold this complaint on the
basis of what it was in 2011  two years after the point of sale.
In any case, Im unable to say that a rough split between equities  a lot of which were in UK
equities  and bonds meant the recommendation to invest in the OEIC was unsuitable. I
note the business says the recommendation had a low to medium' risk rating.
By way of snapshot, I note Mr B answered Ten to Agree (sic), (in relation to the regular
savings) and Tend To Disagree (in relation to the lump sum investment) in response to the
following question:
I am concerned about the impact of inflation on my money over the medium to long
term and am prepared to take a risk to compensate for this.
Mr B answered Tend To Disagree (in relation to regular savings) and Strongly Agree (in
relation to the lump sum investment) in response to the following question:
Keeping my money intact is more important to me than the impact of inflation on it.
He also answered Tend To Disagree (in relation to regular savings) and Strongly
Disagree (in relation to the lump sum investment) in response to the following question:
I want the best opportunity for long term growth eve (sic) if this means significant ups and 
downs in its value during the investment term.
In the circumstances, and on balance, Im satisfied its possible for Mr B to have a cautious
attitude to risk in relation to the lump sum investment, and a balanced risk in relation to the
regular savings investment. Mr Bs answers also tend to suggest that he was willing to
accept a greater risk with his regular savings than he was with his lump sum investment. I
note the next category up on the scale from cautious is balanced.
In this instance, its not just the investment itself that determined how much risk Mr B was
willing to take  Im not persuaded that it was simply investment led  his risk appetite also
encompassed the amount he wanted to invest, how often, for how long and what his
financial circumstances were at the time. I agree with the business that his collective
answers to the risk-based questions wouldve also been considered and important.
For example, its possible for an investor to take a higher risk with a smaller amount of
money whist employed, than it is for an investor with a large lump sum, when retired with nomeans of replacing loss. The process itself is dynamic and has to be assessed on the basis
of individual circumstances including what other investments have been made and level of
risk taken.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im satisfied that
Mr Bs risk appetite was reasonably considered and that he was recommended a product
that carried no more risk than he was willing to take for that money and the recommendation 
met his key objective for capital growth.
I note Mr B, of his own volition, decided to invest £100  rather than £50 as advised. This
doesnt suggest that he had any concerns about the level of risk he was taking with this
portion of his money. Even if the amount he decided to pay rendered the risk unsuitable 
and Im not suggesting that it did  its not something I can blame the business for.
Mr B cant be stopped from doing what he wants to do even if its going over and beyond the
advice. I note he kept the investment for six years before surrendering it. This doesnt
suggest that he had any issues with affordability, needing access to cash or was unhappy
with the advice he received.
Given the length of time  almost 15 years since the sale of the portfolio and almost seven
years since it was surrendered  Im not surprised the business doesnt have more
documentation available. Businesses arent required to retain information indefinitely, so its
not something I can blame Lloyds for.
On balance Im satisfied that the key policy documentation provided made reasonably clear
the nature and operation of the investment. In any case, theres nothing to suggest that Mr B
couldnt take a balanced risk approach or even higher if thats what he wanted to do with a
regular savings investment, having invested a £10,000 lump sum in a capital protected
product.
I note that Mr B might be unhappy with the returns upon surrender, but Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest that he was given any guarantees about the level of return. Just 
because he didnt receive a better return doesnt mean the recommendation was unsuitable.
I note Mr B remained invested during one of the worst global financial crises  I cant say
that this wouldnt have had an impact on his investment(s).
I appreciate Mr B will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached a different conclusion to the
investigator. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, provisionally Im unable to uphold this
complaint and give Mr B what he wants.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider before I considered my final decision. 
Lloyds responded and said it had no further points to add.
The CMC also responded but disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, it made 
the following key points:
It appreciates that consumers can have alternating Attitude to Risk (ATRs) between a 
monthly investment and a lump sum investment, however this wasnt the case with 
Mr B and Ms G. 
The answers provided in respect of the regular savings ATR werent based on a maximum and minimum amount.
So, whilst it has been suggested that individuals could have higher ATR when 
considering a small amount of their spare income, there wasnt any basis for knowing 
how much was being considered for investing. Clearly, with an investment of £20 a 
month Mr B could take a higher risk, than with an investment of £1,000 a month. 
In the circumstances, its far more likely, their ATR wouldnt be significantly higher 
than the lump sum investment.   
The adviser made clear that the investment was suitable for their monthly 
investments and that if they had more money, they could invest it in the same funds  
without incurring additional costs  and its for this reason they were happy to follow 
the advisers suggestion and invest £100 a month each.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, notwithstanding the latest submissions from the CMC, my decision not to 
uphold this complaint remains the same, principally for the same reasons as set out in my 
provisional decision. 
In other words, Im satisfied that no new material points have been made that persuade me 
to change my decision. In this instance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, 
and have been considered by me, in my provisional decision.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says Im still unable to
safely say that the recommendation to invest in the OEIC  invested in the portfolio  was 
unsuitable for Mr B.
Taking the CMCs last point first. Whether or not it was the advisers suggestion that Mr B 
could invest any spare addition sums, Im satisfied that he decided, of his own volition, to 
double the amount of the recommended monthly investment. 
It seems to me this was an amount that Mr B could afford to invest every month, and take a 
greater risk with, without it materially impacting his life  and he was evidently content to do 
so. Mr B probably couldve increased the monthly amount by a much smaller sum but didnt 
 I cant blame the business for this.    
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, the above would 
also suggest there were likely to be discussions about possible monthly contributions  in 
terms of risk, and what Mr B could afford to invest. 
In other words, on balance Im unable to safely say that a risk assessment  in respect of the 
regular savings  took place without a discussion on what amount Mr B could afford to 
invest. Given his financial circumstances, I think it highly unlikely that a contribution of 
£1,000 a month, or any amount near this sum, was ever considered likely.  
In the circumstances, and on balance, I still think its possible for Mr B to have a cautious
attitude to risk in relation to the lump sum investment, and a balanced risk in relation to the
regular savings investment. 
Mr Bs answers to the ATR questions also tend to suggest that he was willing to accept a 
greater risk with his regular savings than he was with his lump sum investment. I note the 
next category up on the scale from cautious is balanced  out of secure, cautious, balanced, progressive, adventurous and specialist risk categories. I also note balanced 
was the third of the risk categories and there were three higher risk categorises ahead of it. 
So, in the circumstances, and on balance, Im unable to agree with the CMC that this was 
significantly higher risk than his lump investment. 
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, its not just the investment itself that determined 
how much risk Mr B was willing to take  Im not persuaded that it was simply investment led 
 his risk appetite also encompassed the amount he wanted to invest, how often, for how 
long and what his financial circumstances were at the time. I agree with the business that his 
collective answers to the risk-based questions were also considered and important.
I appreciate Mr B will be thoroughly unhappy that I still havent changed my decision and 
havent given him what he wants. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask 
Lloyds to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr B what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman