DRN-3236384
The complaint
Mr G complains that Skipton Building Society broke Conduct of Business Sourcebook
(COBS) rules by giving him misleading information about an interest rate enquiry.
What happened
Mr G contacted Skipton Building Society on 27 January 2021 via their online portal, as he
wanted to know if Skipton were planning to reduce the interest rate on his account in the
near future as he had more funds that he intended to add to his account.
Mr G received a response to his query which informed him that they currently dont have any
plans to change the interest rate. The agent also added that if this was to change then Mr G
would be informed 2-3 weeks before this happened by post.
Mr G replied to the agent and he said that he felt it was a risk for him to transfer a significant
amount of money into his account as a third party building society had just reduced their
interest rate and he was worried that Skipton may follow suit. A different online agent replied
to Mr G. He said that as the original agent had mentioned, there were no plans to reduce
interest rates in the near future.
Mr G received a letter from Skipton dated 1 March 2021. The letter informed him that they
were going to reduce the interest rate on his account from 1.01% gross variable to 0.5%
gross variable on 17 March 2021.
Mr G complained to Skipton. He said that the time lapse between his online messages and
Skiptons decision to reduce his interest rates led him to assume the agents he spoke to
would have been aware that a change in interest rates would be imminent. Mr G said that he
believed the information given to him was unfairly communicated to him and he felt misled
by the agents. Mr G said that he believed that Skipton had breached COBS rules and he
wanted compensation for this.
Skipton partially upheld Mr Gs complaint. They said that they were unable to uphold the fact
that they had reduced his interest rate and confirmed that the staff who messaged Mr G
were not aware of the interest rate reducing when they messaged Mr G. They quoted some
of the terms and conditions from the account to explain how they could change the interest
rate.
Skipton said that they did not believe that they should be using the term near future or any
timescale when communicating with their customers regarding queries about variable
interest rates. Skipton offered Mr G £30 compensation as a way of an apology for their agent
using the term near future. Mr G did not accept the compensation as he felt the offer was
paltry and he said Skipton had breached the COBS rules, specifically 4.1.1.
Mr G brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator said that Skipton had followed
their terms and conditions and had also followed COBS rules including 4.1.1, so he wouldnt
be asking Skipton to do anything further.
Mr G asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said his complaint was always in
relation to misleading information from Skipton colleagues, which affected his ability to make
an informed decision rather than the terms and conditions around Skiptons variable interest
rate changes. He said his complaint is based on the grounds of Skipton not meeting the
definition of COBS 4.2.1 or COBS 4.1.1.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has made a number of points to both Skipton and this service and Ive considered
and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
Ive considered what Mr G has said about Skipton breaching COBS 4.2.1 and COBS 4.1.1
and that the Skipton agents who messaged him have misled him. But Im satisfied that the
agents didnt mislead him and Ill explain why.
The first agent responded to Mr G in January 2021. She said, we do not currently have any
plans to change the interest rate. Im persuaded that as per COBS 4.2.1 that this is fair,
clear and not a misleading comment. The interest rate was not changed for more than a
calendar month after the communication.
I wouldnt expect Skipton staff to be told of impending interest rate changes more than a
month before they communicate it to their customers, so Im persuaded that the contents of
her message were accurate. She also explained to Mr G that if interest rates were to
change, then he would be communicated by post, which Mr G was in March 2021. Ive seen
nothing in the message to say that the Skipton agent had mislead him here and Im satisfied
that she was factually correct.
Ive then considered what the second agent told Mr G. This is where Im persuaded that
some of the terminology could have been clearer, but to a limited extent. I say this as he
says as (the first agent) said, we dont have any plans to reduce the rates in the near
future. The agent used the term near future. I agree that this term is open to interpretation
and subjective. While someone may view this term as being a month or two, another person
may consider this to be days or weeks. So I do think the agent could have used a different
phrase, such as the first call handler to reiterate they didnt have any current plans to reduce
the interest rate.
Again, while the choice of words could have been better from the second agent, Im satisfied
that the terminology used wasnt misleading. I say this as the online agent again is
messaging in January and the letter was sent out in March regarding the changes to the
interest rate, so I wouldnt expect them to be aware that Skipton would be reducing the
interest rates at the time they messaged Mr G. He also gave Mr G the telephone number to
speak to Skipton about any alternative options, so Im not persuaded that these are the
actions of someone who is trying to mislead Mr G.
Ive noted the strength of feeling Mr G has that Skipton agents have misled him and he
mentioned that they had broken COBS 4.1.1. But Im persuaded that he was provided with
appropriate information about interest rates in good time, in an appropriate medium in an
easily understandable language and in a clear and comprehensible form in order to make an
informed decision. Mr G has said that the information he was given affected his decision. ButI can see that Mr G made his additional deposit two weeks after he was given this
information and for a fraction of the amount he indicated he would deposit in his messages
to Skipton. So Im not persuaded it would be reasonable to disregard the first message he
received from Skipton, or to disregard the terms and conditions of the account just because
someone used the term near future.
Mr G may not think that the term near future is clear. But the second agent used the same
terminology that Mr G used himself on his original query. So its possible that hes only used
that phrase because Mr G used that phrase first. But as Ive previously mentioned, that can
be a subjective term. So as Skipton has said that the language could have been clearer, Ive
considered whether their offer of compensation has been fair. Im persuaded it is and Ill
explain why.
Mr G would have been aware from the first agents answer that the interest rate could fall.
And she explained that Mr G would get written notice of at least two weeks if the interest rate
fell. So Im not persuaded that the term near future would contradict what the first agent
told Mr G. Our investigator has already explained to Mr G that the terms and conditions of
the account, that he had agreed to showed the interest rates could be reduced (as well as
increased) at any time in the future. So Im not persuaded that the second message was
contradictory, especially in light with the comments from the first agent and the terms and
conditions, so Im not persuaded that the terminology used would have a significant impact
on Mr G. But I am persuaded the terminology could have been clearer.
Mr G was also aware that another building society had recently reduced their interest rates
on some accounts. So I am satisfied that Mr G would always know this is a possibility with
Skipton also  hence his original enquiry. I can understand Mr Gs frustration that the interest
rates had been reduced shortly after he added a lump sum in his account on 15 February
2021. But Ive seen no evidence that the online agents would have been aware of this at the
time they spoke to Mr G.
In summary, I agree the terminology used could have been clearer. However, I dont
consider this is sufficient to enable me to conclude that Skipton should pay higher
compensation. I know Mr G thinks the amount of compensation is paltry and diminutive and
Skipton should pay him more compensation. But I agree that £30 is a fair and reasonable
amount of compensation to reflect the subjective terminology used by the Skipton agent.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Skipton accepted the provisional decision. Mr G did not accept the provisional 
decision. In summary he said he disagreed that £30 was a reasonable amount of 
compensation as Skipton deemed it appropriate to speak to the member of staff to ensure 
they dont mislead future customers in this way. He said this justifies a higher compensation 
amount as he believes the £30 is paltry and insulting. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr G has said regarding how the compensation should be higher than 
£30, especially as Skipton have spoken to the staff member regarding the wording that was 
used with Mr G. But Im not persuaded that the second agent was misleading, even if 
Skipton have said the language used could have been clearer and fed this back to the agent. 
I say this as I wrote the following paragraphs which addressed whether the wording used 
was misleading in my provisional decision: Mr G may not think that the term near future is clear. But the second agent used the same terminology that Mr G used himself on his 
original query. So its possible that hes only used that phrase because Mr G used that 
phrase first. But as Ive previously mentioned, that can be a subjective term. 
Again, while the choice of words could have been better from the second agent, Im satisfied
that the terminology used wasnt misleading. I say this as the online agent again is
messaging in January and the letter was sent out in March regarding the changes to the
interest rate, so I wouldnt expect them to be aware that Skipton would be reducing the
interest rates at the time they messaged Mr G. He also gave Mr G the telephone number to
speak to Skipton about any alternative options, so Im not persuaded that these are the
actions of someone who is trying to mislead Mr G.
I agree the terminology used could have been clearer. However, I dont consider this is 
sufficient to enable me to conclude that Skipton should pay higher compensation. I know Mr 
G thinks the amount of compensation is paltry and diminutive and Skipton should pay him 
more compensation. But I agree that £30 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation 
to reflect the subjective terminology used by the Skipton agent.
In summary, Mr Gs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr G will be disappointed with the 
decision, but I hope he understands my reasons. 
My final decision
Skipton Building Society has already made an offer to pay £30 to settle the complaint and I
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Skipton Building Society should pay £30 to Mr G. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman