DRN-4056267
The complaint
Ms and Mr R complain that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) made errors 
when dealing with their claim on their home buildings insurance policy and caused 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience when they tried to resolve the issue.
References to Ms R, or Mr R, will include the other.
RSA are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the broker. As RSA have accepted they are accountable for the actions of the 
broker, in my decision, any reference to RSA includes the actions of the broker. 
There are several parties and representatives of RSA involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to RSA.
What happened
On 2 December 2021 Ms and Mr R reported to RSA, their home buildings insurance 
provider, that they had damage to their property caused by a storm.
RSA sent out its approved loss adjuster to assess the damage and complete a report.
The claim was accepted and RSAs loss adjuster calculated the rebuild costs of their 
property at 140% of the sum insured. Therefore it said the sum insured was inadequate. It 
said that the building was underinsured by 21%. RSA adjusted the settlement amount by this 
percentage.
In April 2022 it was found the valuation in the policy was correct. And RSAs loss adjuster 
had made an error when calculating the  re-build valuation. 
On 22 April 2022 RSA accepted its approved loss adjuster had made errors and had 
miscalculated the sum insured. It accepted due to admin errors it had delayed payments and 
Ms and Mr R  should have received payments sooner. It paid £250 compensation and £200 
for potential interest earned if the payments had been received in a timelier manner.
As Ms and Mr R were not happy with RSA, they brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and acknowledged  
the upset and frustration caused to Ms and Mr R. However they said RSA had acted 
appropriately and responded fairly with the level of compensation offered.
As Mr R is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
decision to be made.
What I provisionally decided - and why
In this case it is not in question that RSAs loss adjuster made an error in its valuation 
calculations for Ms and Mr Rs property. This was due to it calculating the rebuild value as if 
their house was constructed from stone. In fact only the barn conversion was built from 
stone and the rest of the house was self-build of other materials.
I saw that Mr R spent time contesting these findings with RSA. RSA initially defended its loss 
adjusters recommendations. However eventually it acknowledged there had been an error. 
RSA then accepted the buildings cover included in Ms and Mr Rs buildings policy was 
correct and it should not have reduced its settlement offer by 21%. I saw it said it would pay 
the outstanding amount. It also offered compensation of £250 and recompense of £200 for 
potential interest earned. I also saw that RSAs approved loss adjuster also offered £250 
compensation.
The issue in this case is Ms and Mr R do not feel the compensation paid by RSA fairly 
reflects the operational failings of the three organisations that were involved in their claim 
and the length of time taken to make a settlement.
I looked at the details of the policy and found the construction of the walls was clearly 
defined as timber. And therefore the valuation of their property had been included 
adequately in their policy according to BCIS rates. 
I think if RSA and its approved loss adjusters had checked the policy information when it 
initially started to assess Ms and Mr Rs claim, it would have highlighted the difference in 
what it had recorded the walls of their house being built of and what the policy said. It could 
then have checked for certainty if the walls were stone or timber before completing its 
valuation calculations and progressing any further with the claim. If this had been checked it 
would not have made the error in saying the property was underinsured.  
Ms and Mr R cannot be held responsible in anyway for this error. They should not have 
needed to spend time proving they were adequately insured to RSA. Full settlement for the 
claim could have been paid from the start. If RSA had been more thorough in its processing 
and checking of the claim,  Mr R would not have needed to spend time pushing to resolve an 
issue that could have been avoided.
I understand after their property was damaged by the storm it would already be a worrying 
time for Ms and Mr R. In such a situation there will always be some stress but the errors 
made by RSA and its suppliers added unnecessary additional stress to an already difficult 
time. 
Therefore, I intend to uphold Ms and Mr Rs complaint and require RSA to pay a further £500 
in compensation. Making a total of £750 compensation from RSA and £200 for potential 
interest earned. RSA should also ensure any payments previously offered by the broker is 
also paid to Ms and Mr R.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr R responded to say 
RSA had twice quoted a clause it alleged was from their policy that justified its legal 
position to reduce the claim. Mr R said he contested this on both occasions as it was 
different to the one in their policy. Mr R said he asked for the source of the quote to be 
confirmed but never received a reply. Mr R said the use of an incorrect legal clause on 
more than one occasion to justify a decision that was penalising them, raises grave 
concerns around how RSA operates and conducts their core business.RSA responded to say
The decision is disproportionate to the events that occurred. It said Ms and Mr R have 
already been paid £850 compensation and the increased compensation in the 
provisional decision is unreasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Mr Rs comments
Although I didnt list every point that I took into consideration in my provisional decision, I 
have already acknowledged that RSA got several things wrong during this claim before 
accepting it had made any errors. My findings have taken into account that it made mistakes 
when quoting the policy terms and conditions.
My decision can only look at the merits of this specific complaint. I cannot comment on 
RSAs overall operational process and potential issues that may occur due to the way RSA 
operates its core business.
In response to RSAs comments
Ms and Mr R have not already been paid £850 by RSA. RSA have paid £250 
compensation plus £200 loss of potential interest. The figure RSA have quoted includes 
and amount of £250 paid by RSAs appointed loss adjuster and £150 offered by the 
insurance broker. 
The compensation awarded is for RSAs repeated failure to identify and rectify errors 
made by its supply chain. And its own failures when it relied on incorrect policy clauses 
more than once when processing Ms and Mr Rs claim. These errors caused avoidable  
stress to Ms and Mr R. As RSA have accepted responsibility for this complaint it should 
pay a further £500. The total compensation due from RSA is £750. 
Based on the evidence Ive reviewed, I maintain my provisional decision and require RSA to 
pay Ms and Mr R a further £500 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Ms and Mr R a total of £750 in 
compensation and £200 for potential interest earned. Less anything already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman