DRN-3735805
The complaint
A limited company, that Ill refer to as C, has complained about Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limiteds settlement offer in relation to a claim for business interruption cover under its 
business insurance policy. 
Hiscox uses agents to deal with claims on its behalf. For ease, I will refer to Hiscox 
throughout this decision but that should be read as including anything said or done on its 
behalf by its agents.  
Mr T, as director of C, has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened 
C is a coffee shop. In March 2020, C contacted Hiscox to make a claim for business 
interruption, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. C said that as a result of the Government 
restrictions imposed in March 2020, it had to close its business from 21 March to 
4 July 2020, which resulted in a loss of revenue. 
Hiscox initially rejected the claim. However, it reconsidered Cs claim after the Supreme 
Court issued its judgment in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Business Interruption 
Insurance test case in January 2021. The FCA asked the courts to consider a sample of 
policy wordings and how they should respond to the pandemic, one of which had the same 
wording as Cs policy with Hiscox. 
Hiscox confirmed in June 2021 that it accepted C was required to close between 21 March 
and 4 July 2020 and that its claim was covered. Hiscox assessed the claim based on 
average revenue for year ending July 2019 and, having made various deductions for costs 
savings, made an offer of settlement in July 2021 of approximately £18,500.  
C was not happy with the amount offered and made a number of submissions in support of 
the complaint. Ive considered everything C has said but have summarised the main points 
below: 
Even when it could reopen on 4 July 2020, there were restrictions on the way it could 
operate which affected business. This has not been accounted for in the settlement. 
The policy has a 12 month indemnity period, therefore the other periods of business 
interruptions as a result of Government restrictions for up to 12 months from 
March 2020, should also be included in the settlement.
Hiscox has deducted the furlough payments its staff received, business rates relief 
and other fixed costs from the expected revenue figures, which is not right and not in 
line with the guidance provided by the FCA. 
The policy does not mention reductions. Its charges and business expenses did not 
cease and were not reduced. 
It also suffered loss of stock (refrigerated stock and display items) due to the 
lockdown, which has not been accounted for. 
Hiscox calculations have not allowed for monthly/seasonal trends in business 
revenue. January and February are usually its lowest intake, from March it increases 
peaking in July/August, there is then a slight reduction again until the lead up to 
Christmas when its income peaks again. 
Revenue had been increasing year on year before 2020. The rate of growth should 
be applied to all the months covered. Doing so means its claim for the period March 
to July 2020 is £67,393 and £161,000 for the entire 12 month period (without 
deductions of any saved costs). 
After C complained, Hiscox agreed to review the settlement, taking into account seasonal 
fluctuations and growth trends. It reviewed its offer using previous achieved income in the 
12 month period February 2019 to February 2020 and calculated the growth trend as being 
6.72% (C had said it thinks it was 7.74%). As a result of this review, in October 2021 Hiscox 
increased the settlement offer to £19,920. 
Hiscox maintained that the indemnity period was March to July 2020, as it said the event 
was the Government restriction that meant C was unable to use its premises (hindrance or 
restriction of use is not enough to trigger cover under the policy) and this ended in July 2020. 
It also maintained that it was entitled to deduct the furlough payments, as this was a saving 
for C, and deductions for other expenses that C saved on during the indemnity period, 
including business rate relief, rent, service charge, postage, stationery, travel, advertising 
and bank charges. Finally, Hiscox said there was no cover for loss of stock. 
In June 2022, Hiscox said it would also pay interest of at 8% per annum on the settlement 
offered in recognition of the time taken to settle the claim (based on the dates it could have 
made payment of the claim in 2020) and £500 compensation for the delay and trouble 
caused by the matter. However, Hiscox based the interest on the initial settlement offer of 
£18,531, and not the revised offer of £19,920.
Hiscox sent C a cheque for the amount offered but C returned it. Hiscox then paid it direct 
into Cs bank account in July 2022. C again returned the payment, as it refused to accept 
any payment until the complaint had been resolved. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied Hiscoxs settlement offer was in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
C does not accept the Investigators assessment. As the Investigator was unable to resolve 
the complaint, it was referred to me.  
C has also made claims for further periods of Government restriction in November 2020 and 
January 2021.  Hiscox turned these down, as it says the policy terms changed after the first 
claim, to exclude any Covid-19 related claims. As they are separate claims, and subject to 
different policy terms, I am only going to address the first claim for the period from 
March 2020 in this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Its evident from Cs submissions that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a significant financial 
impact. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
I have considered the section of cover that both parties agree is relevant to this claim below: 
The policy provides cover for loss of gross profit, including increased costs of working, as a 
result of business interruption under the following term: 
Public Authority
7. Your inability to use the business premises due to restrictions imposed by public 
authority during the period of insurance following
b) any occurrence of a notifiable human disease within one mile of the business 
premises.
The policy sets out how it will assess the loss of gross profit as follows: 
How much we will payThe amount we pay for each item will be calculated as 
follows:
Loss of gross profit 
The sum produced by applying the rate of gross profit to any reduction in income 
during the indemnity period plus increased costs or working or alternative hire costs, 
less any business expenses or charges which cease or are reduced
Business trends
The amount we pay for loss of gross profit will be amended to reflect any special 
circumstances or business trends affecting your business, either before or after the 
loss, in order that the amount paid reflects as near as possible the result that would 
have been achieved if the insured damage, insured failure, cyber-attack or restriction 
had not occurred. 
Rate of gross profit defined as
The percentage produced by dividing gross profit by your income during the financial 
year immediately before the date of any insured damage, insured failure or 
restriction.
I do not think there is any debate about the rate of gross profit but C is unhappy that 
deductions have been made and with the growth rate applied. 
The policy term above makes clear that business trends will be taken into account and 
Hiscox agreed to do so. While there is a slight difference in the growth rates that each party 
think should apply, I am not persuaded that the rate applied by Hiscox is unreasonable. 
Hiscox says Cs rate was based on a shorter period of time and it has taken the average 
growth over a lightly longer period. It has also taken account of seasonal trends. This seems 
reasonable to me and I have not seen any evidence that the calculations made by Hiscox 
are unreasonable or not in line with the policy terms. Having worked out the loss of income/revenue over the indemnity period, Hiscox then 
deducted savings in costs that it says C had over the same period as a result of being 
closed. The policy term above, which sets out how loss of gross profit will be calculated, 
makes it clear that Hiscox is entitled to deduct any expenses or charges which cease or are 
reduced during the period of indemnity. 
C is unhappy that Hiscox deducted the value of the furlough payments it received for staff. I 
will deal with this separately below. Hiscox also deducted savings it said C made in relation 
to general fixed costs (service charge, travelling, advertising, bank charges, business rate 
relief and general wages savings, not related to the furlough payments).  
C disputes these deductions but I have not seen any evidence that the deductions were not 
valid. Hiscox is entitled to deduct any savings made. Without any other evidence that these 
expenses were paid by C during the indemnity period, I am not persuaded that the 
deductions made by Hiscox, which resulted in the offer of £19,920, were unreasonable. 
I asked Hiscox to confirm it still stood by this offer and I am pleased to report that it has 
confirmed it will. 
Furlough payments
The relevant part of Cs policy (set out above) explains how the reduction in income would 
be calculated. I think the wording makes it clear that any charges and expenses saved 
during the indemnity period would be deducted from the claim settlement. 
The furlough payments received by C represent a saving on Cs normal wage bill, which is a  
saving of expenses of the business. It doesnt seem fair to me to require an insurer to pay for 
an expense of a business for which the business has already been compensated from 
elsewhere.
In reaching a decision, amongst other things I have to consider relevant law and I think the 
following judgment is helpful when considering this complaint: Stonegate Pub Company Ltd 
v MS Amlin Corporate Member Ltd and others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm). Thats because, 
one of the issues considered by the Court was whether payments received by a policyholder 
under the furlough scheme were to be taken into account when calculating the sums 
recoverable under the policy. The Court found that payments received by businesses for 
furlough should be taken into account when calculating any indemnity as they did diminish 
the insured loss.
So, I think Hiscox was entitled under the terms of the policy to deduct the amount C received 
in respect of furlough payments from its settlement of Cs business interruption claim.
Stock
The policy covers business contents, including stock for certain insured events under the 
property  contents section of the policy. This specifies that refrigerated stock is covered if 
it is spoiled as a result of a fault or power failure, or damage caused to the stock.I do not think there has been any damage to the stock as a result of failed or faulty 
refrigeration units or any other damage. 
The claim is for business interruption losses and it does not extend to stock lost as a result 
of being closed.  I do not therefore consider that Hiscox has acted unreasonably in not 
paying the claim for loss of stock. 
Indemnity period 
The policy defines the indemnity period as being:
The period, in months, beginning at the date of the insured damage or insured 
failure, or the date the restriction is imposed and lasting for the period during which 
your gross profit is affected as a result of such insured damage, insured failure or 
restriction, but for no longer than the number of months shown on the schedule. 
The months shown on the schedule is 12 months.  
The insured restriction is the closure of the business due to restrictions imposed by public 
authority during the period of insurance following the occurrence of Covid-19 within one mile 
of the business premises, which happened in March 2020. This is the insured event. 
I have to now consider whether the losses sustained by C throughout the maximum 
indemnity period are as a result of that one incident. Having done so, I dont think the losses 
were as a result of this one incident because I think that the cause of Cs loss in March 2020 
was different to the cause of the loss which occurred from 4 July 2020 onwards.
The policy only covers losses arising from an inability to use the premises, as a result of 
restrictions as a result of a notifiable human disease occurring within a mile of the premises. 
After 4 July 2020, C was able to use its premises so the insured event (the inability to use 
the premises) had ended. It follows that any losses arising from the date C was able to 
reopen in July 2020, were not directly as a result of the Governments enforced closure and 
Cs inability to use its premises that first arose in March 2020. They were the result of other 
restrictions on movement and other factors. 
I therefore consider Hiscox has acted reasonably in determining the indemnity period as 
being 21 March to 4 July 2020. 
Interest and compensation
C submitted the claim to Hiscox in March 2020. It was not until July 2021 that Hiscox 
accepted the claim and make a settlement offer.
Whilst I understand the difficulties insurers faced with claims of this nature, the clarity 
provided by the courts in the test case has shown that C had a valid claim and that the 
decision to decline the claim in 2020 was incorrect.  I do therefore think that the underwriters 
should have paid Cs claim sooner. 
My role is to consider what a business might or might not have done wrong and to put a 
customer back in the position they would have been in had things happened as they should 
have. Because Hiscox turned down Cs claim, it was without funds that it should have had. 
Hiscox has already offered to pay interest on the settlement offered based on the dates that 
it could have made payment towards the claim at 8% simple per annum, which is our usual rate, up to 26 July 2022 when Hiscox made its final offer. Hiscox has said if the claim had 
been accepted when first submitted, it would likely have made a first interim payment on 
21 May 2020 and then on 21 June and 21 July with the final payment on 4 August 2020. The 
way it has calculated the interest is generally in line with the way we would assess interest 
and I think this was fair and reasonable. 
I also note that in October 2021, Hiscox said C could accept the settlement offer on an 
interim basis while other matters were reviewed. And an email in July 2022, stating it would 
send the payment said it would have no bearing on Cs right to continue his complaint to this 
service. I therefore do not consider that it needs to pay interest on the settlement beyond the 
July 2022.  
However, as mentioned above the interest needs to be recalculated based on the higher 
settlement offer of £19,920. 
Hiscox also offered £500 compensation for the delays in meeting the claim. I can only make 
an award that recognises the impact on the eligible complainant. In this instance, the eligible 
complainant is a limited company, rather than any individual. A limited company cannot 
suffer distress or frustration and so I cant make an award in this category. I can make an 
award for inconvenience. Having considered all the circumstances, I think the compensation 
offered is reasonable and do not intend to make Hiscox pay any more.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold the complaint in part and require Hiscox Insurance 
Company Limited to do the following: 
1. pay the sum of £19,920 in settlement of the claim, together with interest at 8% simple 
per annum for the first months amount from 21 May 2020, the second months 
amount from 21 June 2020, the third months amount from 21 July 2020 and the final 
instalment from 4 August 2020 all until 26 July 2022.
2. Pay the sum of £500 compensation for the delays in dealing with the claim, as 
already offered.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman