DRN-2136869
The complaint
Mrs C and Miss C complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc avoided (cancelled from the start) 
Mrs Cs policy and didnt notify them.
What happened
In July 2019 Mrs C took out car insurance with AXA. Her daughter, Miss C, was a named 
driver on the policy. In late 2019, AXA identified the policy may have been set up by an 
unregulated broker (ghost broker). So, AXA decided to avoid Mrs Cs policy. On 31 October 
2019 it sent a notice to the email address on record (Miss Cs email), advising it would avoid 
the policy in seven days. On 7 November 2017 it sent a further email confirming the policy 
was avoided and there was no insurance. 
But Mrs C said Miss C didnt receive the emails. And so, they didnt realise the policy had 
been avoided until January 2020 when Miss C was stopped by police. The car was then 
impounded, and Miss C was charged with driving without insurance - although these 
charges were later dropped.
Mrs C complained to AXA about both the avoidance and the lack of notice. AXA didnt 
uphold the complaint. It said it had acted in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
But AXA later acknowledged it would have been better for Mrs C to also receive postal 
correspondence and offered £125 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mrs C didnt think this was fair, so she brought these concerns to our service. 
When explaining its decision to avoid this policy, AXA initially said Mrs C had made a 
reckless misrepresentation in relation to the information provided. But it later said it hadnt 
relied on misrepresentation to avoid the policy. Instead, AXA said it relied on the following 
term:
If we suspect fraudulent activity has taken place on your policy either by you or someone on 
your behalf, we may cancel by giving you 7 days notice in writing to either the email or the 
last postal address known to us. This includes if your policy has been set up by an 
unauthorised or unregulated intermediary.
I have noted that this term doesnt mention avoidance, which is what AXA did here, but 
cancellation. And I have looked at whether AXA were entitled to avoid or cancel the policy 
below. 
AXA said it relied on this term because the policy was set up in a fraudulent way by a ghost 
broker to obtain a cheaper price. AXA told us it had identified a large number of policies 
which were set up in this way  but it couldnt share this information with our service due to 
data protection concerns. AXA stressed selling insurance is a regulated activity, and its 
important not to turn a blind eye to unauthorised ghost brokers. 
In relation to its attempts to contact Mrs C, AXA told us it had notified her via email and 
wouldnt have risked sending a notice via post due to the potential fraud risk connected with 
the ghost brokers involvement.
After reviewing all of the evidence our investigator upheld Mrs Cs complaint. They said it 
wasnt fair for AXA to avoid the policy without evidence of a qualifying misrepresentation. 
And they thought AXA should have made an effort to contact Mrs C by more than one 
method before avoiding her policy. AXA disagreed so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA initially told our service that Mrs Cs policy was avoided due to a reckless 
misrepresentation. Misrepresentation is also suggested in the avoidance notice AXA sent to 
Mrs C. The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA) does 
allow insurers to avoid policies under certain circumstances. 
According to CIDRA, AXA may have been entitled to avoid the policy if it could show the 
ghost broker deliberately misrepresented information that was relevant to the insurers 
decision to cover Mrs C. AXA may also have been entitled to avoid for misrepresentation if it 
could show Mrs C was reckless in checking the accuracy of the information given at 
application when it was provided to her to check. But whilst Im aware AXA had a correct 
email address for Miss C, I havent seen any evidence from AXA that any incorrect 
information was relevant to the insurers decision to cover Mrs C. And thats because AXA 
has since told us misrepresentation wasnt the basis of its decision. So, whilst our 
investigator has asked for more information - this hasnt been provided. Given this, based on 
the information available to me, I dont think its fair for AXA to avoid the policy based on 
misrepresentation.
Instead, AXA has said the policy was avoided because a ghost broker was involved in the 
setup. AXA has told us it considers the setup of the policy by an unauthorised intermediary 
as fraud. And its said that a customers innocence or lack thereof is irrelevant. AXA has 
relied on the following term to explain their decision:
If we suspect fraudulent activity has taken place on your policy either by you or someone on 
your behalf, we may cancel by giving you 7 days notice in writing to either the email or the 
last postal address known to us. This includes if your policy has been set up by an 
unauthorised or unregulated intermediary.
I recognise ghost broking is an unregulated activity that causes significant problems within 
the insurance industry and should be taken seriously. But my role here is to decide if AXA 
has treated Mrs C fairly in the circumstances. Having reviewed the information available to 
me, I dont think it has. In particular, I dont think its provided enough evidence to support its 
reliance on this policy term. 
Firstly, this policy term allows for cancellation, not avoidance, which is what AXA did. 
Avoiding is cancelling a policy from the start as though it never existed, where as normal 
cancellation would be from the moment AXA chose to end the policy. AXA acknowledged 
this term doesnt technically allow for avoidance, but said it did this because it allowed the 
return of all of Mrs Cs premiums. Im not persuaded by this reasoning, as AXA still could 
have chosen to refund the premiums even if it had cancelled the policy. Although I recognise 
there would then be a period on cover which it wouldnt have received premiums for. But overall, I dont think this matters here because I dont think either approach was 
reasonable in these circumstances  Ill explain why.
 
Under the Insurance Act 2015 an insurer is entitled to cancel or avoid a customers policy for 
fraud. But this is a very serious matter. It means that the cancellation or avoidance will be 
registered on internal and possibly external insurance and fraud databases. It will also have 
to be declared in future insurance applications which can increase premiums or make it 
difficult for a consumer to get cover. 
Taking this impact into account, I would expect AXA to show us strong evidence that fraud 
has occurred before cancelling or avoiding the policy on these grounds. In other words, I 
would expect AXA to provide evidence that a ghost broker knowingly misrepresented 
Mrs Cs information to lower her premiums and/or qualify her for insurance she would 
otherwise not have been entitled to.
But AXA hasnt provided this evidence.  Its clear there is some data in Mrs Cs policy details 
which is inaccurate  the occupation of both her and her daughter is incorrect and their 
relationship is listed as partners not mother-daughter. Yet AXA doesnt appear to have 
checked with Mrs C that this information is different from what she provided at the point of 
application. Ive also seen no evidence to show this information would have made a 
difference to the terms AXA would have offered. And whilst I appreciate AXA has said its 
difficult to share this data with our service, I also havent seen any evidence the person who 
set this policy up was a ghost broker. So, without any evidence to support AXAs suggestion 
fraud occurred here, I dont think its fair to avoid or cancel the policy for fraud.
And even if AXA was to provide this evidence, I would also expect it to demonstrate on 
balance that Mrs C knew or ought to have known about the fraud. Whilst this isnt a 
requirement set out in the terms and conditions of the policy, given the very serious 
consequences of policy avoidance and cancellation on the individual consumer, I would 
expect a fair approach to be taken. And I dont think its fair to permanently disadvantage 
Mrs C if theres no evidence she knew or ought to have known the insurance was taken out 
fraudulently. In such circumstances, Mrs C would be as much a victim of fraud as the 
insurer. 
I can understand why, regardless of whether Mrs C knew or ought to have known it had 
been set up by a ghost broker, AXA might not want to continue this policy. And AXA has 
explained that allowing the policy to continue fuels ghost broking activity. Its also possible 
Mrs C may not have paid the correct premiums if not all her information was accurate. But I 
dont think its reasonable to suggest her innocence is irrelevant. If theres no evidence 
Mrs C was or should have been aware of the potential fraud, and theres no evidence of 
misrepresentation, then I think its fair to expect AXA to give Mrs C the option of cancelling in 
the first instance. This ends the fraudulent policy and the ghost brokers involvement in a 
way thats fair to everyone involved. 
So, Ive thought about whether the evidence indicates Mrs C knew or ought to have known 
of the potential ghost broker involvement  but I dont think the evidence suggests this. 
Mrs C told AXA she thought her son-in-law got her this quote and that someone set it up for 
him through a well-known price comparison website. Mrs C says they were then sent a link 
from this comparison website through which they took out the policy. Mrs Cs son-in-law has 
since told our service he used the comparison website directly. He told us Mrs C wasnt 
particularly clued up on using the internet, so he thinks she misunderstood him. 
Whilst there is a slight discrepancy here in what Mrs C and her son-in-law told us, I think the 
explanation for this seems reasonable in the circumstances. I say this taking into account the 
fact Mrs C asked her son-in-law to help her get the quote in the first place. And I have also noted Mrs C doesnt sound overly certain about how he did this in the call to AXA. She said I 
think my son-in-law and then she can be heard consulting with her daughter about the 
comparison website used. 
AXA also hasnt shown me that Mrs Cs policy was substantially cheaper, such that I think 
the lower price should have alerted her to possible fraud. And I dont think its unreasonable 
for a consumer to believe a link from a well-known price comparison website to a well-known 
insurer was legitimate. So, I dont think theres sufficient evidence here to suggest Mrs C 
knew or ought to have known this was potentially fraudulent. 
Given this, I think AXA should have given Mrs C the option of cancelling her policy before it 
cancelled it for her. And in the circumstances, I think its likely Mrs C would have done so. I 
say this as the alternative would be AXA cancelling it for her which would have 
disadvantaged her as outlined above. But Im aware this would all be dependent on whether 
she received AXAs communications. And this is also important in considering Mrs Cs 
complaint that AXA didnt tell her that her policy had been cancelled. 
So, Ive considered Mrs Cs complaint that her daughter didnt receive AXAs notification. 
AXA has evidenced that it emailed to warn Mrs C it was avoiding the policy, and then again 
once it had done so. Give this, Im satisfied it did attempt to communicate its decision to 
Mrs C. AXA also feels its likely Mrs C knew what had happened, as the email address it 
used was correct and it also refunded the entire years premiums.
But Mrs C said Miss C didnt get these emails. Mrs C says theyve since checked the email 
account again, including junk mail, but the emails arent there. Mrs C also told AXA she 
didnt check the current account it refunded the money to very often, so she hadnt noticed 
the refund.
Where the evidence is incomplete or conflicting, I need to decide whats most likely to have 
happened.
Ive noted that Mrs C didnt ring AXA to complain until after her daughter had been pulled 
over, which was around two months after the policy was avoided. Mrs C has also explained 
that her daughter is a blue badge holder and is reliant on her licence to get around. 
Given the importance of the ability to drive to Mrs Cs daughter, I do think its unlikely she 
would risk driving without insurance for several months. And I also think its unlikely Mrs C 
would have waited two months if she felt she had cause to complain. 
Ive thought about the refunded premiums and I recognise this wasnt a small amount of 
money. But its not uncommon for individuals to have more than one current account. And if 
that account is reserved for specific purposes or isnt someones primary account, I dont 
think its implausible that someone might not check this for a couple of months. Which is 
what Mrs C has told us happened.
Taking all of this into account, I think its most likely AXAs emails went into Miss Cs junk 
folder. I say this as junk email folders often periodically delete emails. And this seems to me 
the most likely explanation for what happened here, explaining both why the emails werent 
received and why they are no longer there, despite the fact AXA clearly sent them. 
Mrs C feels that AXA should have done more to contact her. AXA has said this was an 
online policy so it wouldnt have used other methods of communication. Its also said it 
wouldnt have sent post in these circumstances because it was concerned the address might 
have been fraudulent (and incorrect) based on the potential ghost broker involvement.But I have noted this contradicts what it previously told Mrs C when it offered her £125 as a 
goodwill gesture. It also seems to me that if AXA had concerns over the accuracy of the 
contact information it held, this applied to all of the details, not just the postal address. 
This would include the email address it relied on to notify Mrs C. Whilst I appreciate this 
email address turned out to be correct, AXA didnt know that at the time. 
Ive raised this with AXA and it told me that the welcome email sent when the policy was 
taken out had not been returned undelivered. AXA acknowledged that the lack of a bounce 
back is not a guarantee that the email address doesnt belong to someone else. But they 
thought it was likely someone would have contacted them if theyd received an email about 
insurance they were unaware of.
 
But I dont find this argument persuasive here. If a ghost broker was responsible for the 
fraudulent email account, they wouldnt get in touch with AXA. And I also dont think it can be 
taken as likely that someone else would take the time to contact a company if they received 
information about a policy that wasnt theirs  people are busy and natural suspicion of spam 
and fraud may lead others to delete rather than report.
I appreciate this was an online policy which would normally be dealt with by emails only. 
But in this case AXA suspected fraud. And AXA had other information available to it which 
could have been used to try to contact Mrs C or make further enquiries to check the details 
were correct - this included a contact telephone number, a car registration and a postal 
address.
So, in these specific circumstances, where the ghost broker involvement has brought into 
question the accuracy of the contact information, it seems to me unreasonable not to either 
make further enquiries to verify the information, or attempt multiple methods of contact to 
ensure Mrs C received the notification. I say this taking into account the serious potential 
consequences of someone unknowingly driving without insurance. And had AXA done this, I 
think its likely Mrs C would have received the notification and become aware that her 
insurance had been avoided. 
I think AXAs failure to do enough to notify Mrs C for the avoidance ultimately led to Mrs and 
Miss C driving without insurance. Given my earlier findings, had AXA acted fairly in this 
case, I also think Mrs C would have received and accepted its offer to cancel her own policy. 
So, I think AXA should do the following to put Mrs C and Miss C back in the position they 
should have been in:
Update any internal and external database to show Mrs C cancelled the policy. 
AXA should remove any references to avoidance, insurer cancellation, or fraud on 
these databases.
Provide Miss C with an indemnity she can produce, if for any reason the crown 
prosecution decides to reconsider its decision to discontinue prosecution. 
Refund the costs of the car impound and legal fees Mrs C and Miss C have incurred, 
providing these are not recovered through the justice system.
But AXA has already refunded all of Mrs Cs premiums. And had Mrs C cancelled her policy, 
she would only have been refunded premiums for the remainder of the policy term. 
Given this, I think its reasonable for AXA to deduct the costs of Mrs Cs premiums from the 
policy inception until 7 November 2019 (when the policy should have been cancelled) at the 
rate Mrs C agreed to when she took out the policy, from any payment it makes. Ive 
considered the cancellation fee that is usually applicable, but I think it would have been 
reasonable for AXA to waive this in the circumstances given it would have been asking 
Mrs C to cancel the policy. Ive then thought about the trouble and upset caused to Mrs C and Miss C here. Its clear 
both have been impacted by whats happened. Miss C has had to endure months of worry 
as the CPS only dropped the charges against her in late August. Shes also spent time 
liaising with solicitors in connection with this. And has left her anxious at a time where she 
also happens to be pregnant. Mrs C was also clearly upset and worried by the charges. 
Both were inconvenienced by the car being impounded. And Mrs C has had to spend time 
trying to resolve this with AXA. I dont doubt this has been a very difficult time, particularly for 
Miss C.
I think this was partially caused by AXA acting unfairly. But I have thought about the fact that 
had Miss C checked her junk mail more regularly, its likely shed have seen AXAs 
notifications. This was an online policy with default communication set to email so I think its 
fair to say Miss C had some responsibility here. If Miss C had received AXAs notification, 
some of this upset could have been avoided. And whilst its unfortunate the emails went into 
the junk folder, this wasnt AXAs fault. Im aware AXA has offered Mrs C £125 as a goodwill 
gesture. Taking everything into account, I think an additional £300 payment, so £425 in total, 
fairly reflects AXAs role in the trouble and upset to Mrs C and Miss C here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint. I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Update any internal and external database to show Mrs C cancelled the policy. 
AXA Insurance UK Plc should remove any references to avoidance, insurer 
cancellation, or fraud on these databases.
Provide Miss C with a letter of indemnity if for any reason the crown prosecution 
service decides to reconsider its decision to discontinue prosecution. 
Refund the costs of the car impound and legal fees Mrs C and Miss C have incurred, 
providing these are not recovered through the justice system.
Im aware AXA Insurance UK Plc have offered Mrs C £125 as a goodwill gesture. 
It should pay this, if it hasnt already done so. And then it should pay them a further 
£300, so £435 total, for the distress and inconvenience theyve experienced.
AXA may deduct the costs of Mrs Cs premiums from the policy inception until 7 November 
2019, at the rate Mrs C agreed to when she took out the policy, from any payment it makes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman