DRN-3642213
The complaint
Mr N has complained that The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited has declined his income 
protection claim and avoided his policy.
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties so I wont repeat them in detail here. In summary Mr 
N applied for an income protection policy in November 2021. The application form asked 
questions about his medical history over the previous five years. Mr N made no disclosures 
in response to any of the medical questions. When he submitted a claim under the policy in 
January 2022, Shepherds Friendly Society noticed that he had several conditions which 
hadnt been disclosed.  As it wouldnt have offered cover if the questions had been answered 
correctly it declined Mr Ns claim and voided the policy. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld, he didnt find that 
Shepherds Friendly Society had done anything wrong. Mr N appealed. He said that he 
answered the questions honestly and his GP supported him.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it 
isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every 
individual point to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome regarding this policy. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
Shepherds Friendly Society has found that Mr N failed to take reasonable care when 
answering the questions on the application form relating to his health. The questions it was 
concerned about were:
Apart from anything your client has already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have they seen a health professional for:
Raised blood pressure, raised cholesterol or any condition affecting blood or blood vessels, 
for example anaemia, excess sugar in the blood, blood clot or deep vein thrombosis?
Any condition affecting their stomach, oesophagus, or bowel, for example Crohns disease, 
ulcerative colitis?
Any condition affecting their lungs or breathing, for example asthma, emphysema, sleep 
apnoea, sarcoidosis?
Having received his medical records from his GP it was apparent that Mr N had seen health 
professionals for several matters in the five years before the application. These included 
raised cholesterol and stomach/oesophageal conditions. He also had a diagnosis of asthma.
Ive carefully considered the medical evidence before me and I cant say that Shepherds 
Friendly have treated Mr N unfairly. I say this because the questions werent answered 
correctly. I havent disregarded Mr Ns GPs letter  however Mr N was asked if hed seen a 
health professional for the issues listed, and the GP records show that he had. For 
completeness I would add that Shepherds Friendly Society is entitled to rely on the answers 
given in the application form to determine whether it will offer cover. It is not obliged to 
request medical reports at the application stage.
Im satisfied by the underwriting evidence Ive seen that had the correct answers been given 
Mr N wouldnt have been offered a policy as he would have required in excess of two 
exclusions. This means that this was a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. 
Shepherds Friendly Society has classified the misrepresentation as deliberate/reckless 
which means that under CIDRA it is entitled to avoid the contract and refuse all claims. I 
have noted Mr Ns submissions regarding his application. He has said he puts the error 
down to not reading the questions fully and understanding them and that he always asks for 
help when filling in forms but on this occasion he attempted to do it himself. I appreciate too 
that he is not claiming for a condition related to the issues he failed to disclose. Nevertheless 
in all the circumstances I find that Shepherds Friendly Societys classification is fair.
I recognise that Mr N will be disappointed by my decision, but I cant say that Shepherds 
Friendly Society have treated him unfairly by avoiding his policy and declining his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman