DRN-3851057
The complaint
Miss F complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) didnt do enough to protect her when 
she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss F received a call from a scammer who was impersonating Starling. She was 
told thered been some unusual transactions on her account. After being advised to 
move her savings into her main account, she was then prompted to accept or reject a 
payment of around £1,250. She said she was advised to make the payment to 
protect her money, under the promise of a refund in a few days. So, while she was 
manipulated into doing so, I agree that Miss F authorised this payment. 
As Miss F authorised the payments, the starting position  in line with the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs)  is that Starling would have been expected 
to follow the payment instructions and Miss F would be liable for the payment.
But, taking into account the law, relevant regulations and good industry practice at 
the time, Starling would have been expected to monitor accounts and identify 
suspicious activity, such as that which appears unusual or out of character. In 
situations where potential fraud is identified, it would be expected to intervene and 
attempt to prevent losses for the customer. In this case, the payment was made to a 
legitimate merchant. And I dont consider the payment to have been high enough to 
have flagged with Starling. 
I also note that Miss F had made payments in recent months that far exceeded this 
disputed payment  of £10,000 and £4,000. I accept that these genuine payments 
were made to an investment, rather than to a retailer. But this doesnt change the fact 
that the £1,250 payment, being substantially lower, wouldnt have appeared unusual 
or uncharacteristic to Starling. On that basis, I dont think it was unreasonable that 
Starling didnt intervene with the disputed payment. 
Miss F has mentioned her age and her vulnerability. But I note that Starling wasnt 
aware of her vulnerability at the time of the scam. I dont think Starling acted in error 
by allowing Miss F to use her account in the same way it would allow others to. And 
while Miss F feels that this spending was unusual for someone of her age, her recent 
spends (as outlined above) would suggest this amount wasnt significantly unusual 
for her, even if it differed from her usual day-to-day spending.
Ive thought about what action Starling took to recover the funds when it was aware 
Miss F had been the victim of a scam. But the funds went, via card payment, to a 
legitimate merchant for what was most likely a genuine order  albeit not one placed 
by Miss F. So, Starling wouldnt have been able to stop or recover the funds. And 
while it doesnt appear that a chargeback  a voluntary process  has been pursued, 
this is likely to be unsuccessful on the basis that the genuine merchant, in receipt of 
(most likely) a genuine order will likely have fulfilled it.  
While Im sorry that Miss F has been the victim of a cruel and manipulative scam, and I 
appreciate the impact this is likely to have had on her, I dont think Starling can fairly be held 
liable for the loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman