DRN-4263548
The complaint
Miss M complains that Studio Retail Limited, trading as Studio (Studio), irresponsibly 
gave her a running account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In May 2016 Studio granted Miss M a catalogue account credit facility. Studio went on to 
grant at least two further credit limit increases. 
In this decision I am only considering the credit limit increase that was granted after 
February 2017  that is, in March 2017, when the credit limit was increased from £625 to 
£775. Thats because our investigator previously made a jurisdiction finding that part of the 
complaint, about the account opening and initial credit limit increase, had been made too 
late. 
Ive seen that the account went into default in March 2023. 
In February 2023 Miss M complained to Studio to say that it should not have granted her 
the account and credit limit increases as she was in financial difficulty before the account 
was opened and that adequate affordability checks werent carried out, either at that 
point or when the credit limits were increased.
Our investigator didnt think Studio had acted unfairly in the way it managed the 
account. Because Miss M disagrees, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Studio will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about 
our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Before providing credit and increased credit limits to Miss M, Studio says it carried out a 
credit check using a credit agency to decide on the amount of credit it was able to offer. 
It also told us that Miss Ms account was then assessed on a regular basis from the 
credit check information. Similarly, the credit limits were then set using the same type of 
updated information plus regular observation of Miss Ms management of the account.
Its possible that Studios checks werent sufficient. I cant know for sure since Studio 
no longer has the full credit check details it used at the time of the increase. But even 
if the checks werent as good as they should have been, I dont think better enquiries 
would have caused Studio to think the initial credit limit or the subsequent credit 
increase were unaffordable. Ill explain why.
Miss M provided us with her credit report to help us understand her financial situation at the 
time. Ive reviewed this but given what Ive seen Im unable to  say that Studio acted unfairly 
or that the account wasnt affordable at the time of the March 2017 credit limit increase. Ive 
seen that Miss M already had some other credit borrowing in place but seemed to be 
managing to meet those repayment commitments. Im unable to say that Ive seen enough to 
show or suggest that Miss Ms financial circumstances were deteriorating, or at risk of 
deterioration, at the time. There was no adverse information shown against existing or earlier 
credit commitments, such as evidence of late payments or arrears that had led to adverse 
markings being added to her credit file. 
I also say this given that her management the account up to this point had generally 
been good. At the time of the credit limit increase Miss M owed only £20-30 and had 
had no missed or late payments previously. So I agree with our adjudicator that Miss 
M appears to have been able to meet the repayments required before this increase 
and was able to pay more than the minimum required each month. So there was little 
to suggest she was getting into difficulty.
So, based on the evidence and information Ive seen,  I have to conclude that at this 
point Miss M was managing her financial situation reasonably well. 
Overall, I havent seen enough to persuade me that in March 2017 Studio would or 
should have seen that Miss Ms financial circumstances were in such a way such that 
lending her additional amounts by way of increasing the credit facility available to her was 
unreasonable. And having seen that the monthly payments Miss M was making against 
her outstanding balance each month meant that it was likely to be paid off in a 
sustainable timeframe, I dont think a more thorough affordability assessment at this time 
would have put Studio off increasing the credit limit.
So, although I cant say that all of Studios actions were necessarily appropriate, I dont 
make any award as I dont think Miss M was caused any loss or material distress or 
inconvenience as a result.
I realise that this wont be the outcome Miss M was hoping for and I regret that Im unable to 
help her on this occasion. But I do ask that Studio continues to exercise all reasonable 
forbearance with her with regards to the current outstanding sum and takes all necessary 
and appropriates steps to explore available options to help her to reduce it in a sustainable 
and manageable way. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman