DRN-2535492
The complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of C, a limited company, that Harlands Services Ltd repeatedly 
failed to properly administer his ex-clients direct debits.
What happened
Mr A is the sole director of C, a gym, and he represents C in this complaint. C had a contract 
with Harlands under which Harlands was responsible for processing Cs customers direct 
debits for their gym memberships. Cs complaint is that from September 2019 Harlands kept 
processing direct debits for cancelled memberships, and sometimes charged unpaid 
payment fees when these direct debits did not go through. This caused Cs staff to have to 
spend time doing additional work to deal with the complaints made by former customers who 
were affected by this, and it also damaged the companys reputation.1 Mr A also says there 
were some breaches of data protection law, and that Harlands withheld some of Cs money 
after ending the contract.
In August 2020 Mr A cancelled Cs contract with Harlands, with effect from September, but 
the problems persisted because Harlands forwarded the details of ex-customers to the new 
service provider as well as the details of current customers. Mr A has provided several 
emails from ex-customers complaining that their direct debits had started being collected 
again. Harlands says this happened because a backlog of cancellation requests had not 
been dealt with before it transferred Cs data to the new service provider. It also said that it 
had been entitled, under the termination clause of the contract, to temporarily withhold some 
money to cover its possible liabilities, such as chargebacks, and that it would return the 
funds to C in December 2020.
At our investigators request, Harlands put together a spreadsheet of over 50 customers who 
had complained, most of which it conceded were its own fault. There were a few where it 
disputed liability, but the investigator thought Harlands must have been responsible for those 
too, because C had had no involvement with the payment process. He also thought that 
Harlands should have communicated more often with C about the matter. He accepted that 
Harlands was entitled to withhold some of Cs funds to cover its liabilities, in line with the 
contract.
The investigator upheld this complaint in part, and recommended that Harlands should 
provide C with a full list of all the customers it believed were affected so that C could confirm 
if any cases were still outstanding, refund any outstanding cases, refund any related fees it 
had charged C, and pay C £850 compensation for its inconvenience.
Mr A accepted that decision. Harlands did not respond, so this case was referred to me for a 
decision by an ombudsman. I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
1 Mr A has since told us that the problems actually began before September 2019, but he had not 
complained to Harlands about that and so those matters fall outside the scope of this decision.
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clause 17(e) of the contract sets out Harlands right to retain Cs funds temporarily, and so 
I agree that it was entitled to do so. Harlands told the investigator that it planned to return 
this money to C in December, so I will presume that this has now been paid unless I am told 
otherwise. Subject to the funds having been returned, I will not uphold that complaint issue.
I have seen a large volume of emails between Mr A and Harlands, many of which include in 
the email chains messages from Cs customers or ex-customers, mostly complaining about 
continuing to be charged after they had asked to cancel their membership. (I have ignored a 
few emails about other subjects which were not part of Cs complaint, such as memberships 
being cancelled unexpectedly, or problems arising from when the gym had to be closed due 
to the coronavirus lockdown  these issues are outside the scope of this complaint. But the 
majority of the emails that have been provided are relevant to this complaint.)
The emails indicate that many problems were not immediately resolved, in that some 
customers reported that they had received only partial refunds, and others said they had 
been promised a refund but then received nothing some time later. Sometimes the problem 
recurred after it had been dealt with the first time. Mr A chased Harlands repeatedly for 
updates, but in September 2020 he told the investigator that Harlands had stopped 
responding to correspondence. (Harlands has communicated with our investigator since 
then, but not since he issued his opinion in November.)
In this complaint I am only considering mistakes which have been made since September 
2019, so if any of them pre-date that period then I invite the parties to correct me. But I have 
listed the customers names below. (Their names will not be included in the published final 
decision.) I have left out the customers who Harlands said have received full refunds.2
I invite both parties to check the list below, and to confirm which customers are still awaiting 
refunds, and how much. If Mr A thinks any customers are missing from the list then I invite 
him to tell me. If there is still a dispute between the parties about which customers have 
been refunded, then I will ask them for evidence to verify their claims. If Harlands does not 
respond, then I will have to rely solely on Mr As evidence; this may be to Harlands 
detriment.
Once I am satisfied about how much money remains outstanding, I intend to order Harlands 
to pay that amount to C, or else to refund it directly to Cs former customers and to provide 
proof that it has done so.
I am also minded to order Harlands to pay C a further £1,000 for inconveniencing it (rather 
than the £850 proposed by the investigator), and £1,000 for damage to its reputation (this 
matter not having been considered by the investigator).
[I have omitted the list from this final decision, as it will be published.]
My decision is that I am currently minded to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive from the parties, I intend to order Harlands Services Ltd to:
Pay Cs former customers any and all outstanding refunds, once these have been 
ascertained, and to provide proof that this has been done; or alternatively to pay the 
sum of all such refunds to C;
2 In this paragraph of my final decision, I have omitted a sentence from my provisional decision which 
was incorrect. I had said that the number of customers affected was considerably greater than 50. 
I have recounted and in fact it was 57.Refund to C all charges which were incurred under paragraphs 7 or 8(d) of the 
collection services agreement in relation to any direct debit payments that have been 
refunded, or which still remain to be refunded, on the ground that C had earlier 
notified Harlands that they had cancelled their membership (other than any such 
charges incurred before September 2019);
Pay C £2,000 for its inconvenience and for damage to its reputation.
Responses to my provisional findings
Mr A said he had not received all of the funds owed to him under clause 17(e). He said 
Harlands had retained around £4,000. He said that since each direct debit payment was for 
£25, it would require indemnities for 160 payments to explain why Harlands had kept £4,000 
of Cs money, and it had not sent him anything approaching that many indemnity claims.
Harlands replied to my decision and provided the information I had asked for about which 
customers were owed refunds, in a new spreadsheet. Of the 57 customers or ex-customers 
I had identified, Harlands had records of 18 having been wholly or partly refunded. There 
were 36 people about whom Harlands was unable to say whether refunds had been issued 
or not. Harlands did not accept that it necessarily followed that none of those people had 
been refunded. There were three who Harlands said were not owed refunds in the first 
place.
My findings
I have seen evidence that Harlands paid C the balance of the money it had withheld under 
clause 17(e) on 9 December 2020. So Im satisfied that there is no more money owed to C in 
that respect.
I take Harlands point that the absence of information about refunds in its own records (if that 
evidence is taken on its own) is not definite proof that none of those 36 customers have 
been refunded. But Mr A has provided evidence that each of those people raised a dispute. 
So the only evidence on the subject is that those people were probably owed refunds, and 
there is no evidence to show that refunds have since been provided or that no refunds were 
ever due to those customers. I therefore think it is fair and reasonable to conclude, on the 
balance of probabilities, that refunds are still owed to 38 customers (that figure consists of 
two who have received partial refunds and 36 who have not been refunded at all).
For most of those customers, the amount to be refunded is not controversial or complicated, 
and these are set out clearly in Harlands recent spreadsheet. But there are a couple about 
which it is necessary for me to say a little more. Of the two customers who have already 
been partly refunded, one (with the initials AB) has been refunded one out of three contested 
payments, and the two outstanding payments add up to £59.98. The other (initials MR) has 
been refunded two payments, and is still owed a third, which is £20. Another customer (IL) 
was charged a £25 administration fee by her bank when a direct debit which should not have 
been processed was returned unpaid, and I will include that.
There are two customers (GP and JR) about whom I think the evidence is not sufficiently 
clear that I could fairly conclude that refunds are due to them. There is also one customer 
(LA) who cancelled his membership in April 2017, and who complained in 2020 that he had 
continued to be charged again, starting in July of that year. But Harlands has provided 
evidence which suggests that this customer had opened a new account, and I note that this 
customer conceded in his complaint email that it was possible that he had re-started his 
membership and just forgotten about it since. On the balance of probabilities, I think that is 
the most likely explanation.All of these outstanding refunds add up to £1,037.89. I will order Harlands to pay that 
amount to C, rather than refund the customers directly, for two reasons. Firstly, because 
Harlands is no longer responsible for the direct debits, having already handed over 
responsibility to a third party. And secondly, because if the refunds come directly from C, 
then this might help to restore Cs reputation somewhat. (I will provide the refund details to 
Mr A separately, since I cant name the customers in a published decision.)
I will also require Harlands to refund any relevant charges, and pay compensation for Cs 
inconvenience and damage to its reputation, as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Harlands Services Ltd to:
Pay C £1,037.89, being the total financial loss C will incur once it has refunded its 
customers or former customers;
Refund to C all charges which were incurred under paragraphs 7 or 8(d) of the 
collection services agreement in relation to any direct debit payments that have been 
refunded, or which still remain to be refunded, on the ground that C had earlier 
notified Harlands that they had cancelled their membership (other than any such 
charges incurred before September 2019); and
Pay C £2,000 for its inconvenience and for damage to its reputation.
Harlands Services Ltd must pay the above compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it that Mr A has accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, then it must 
also pay simple interest on the total compensation at 8 percent a year from that date to the 
date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A, on behalf of 
C, to accept or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman