DRN-4145035
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, offered to reinstate 
her credit limit if she closed other accounts she had with them, but when she closed those 
accounts Barclays didnt reinstate her original limit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs W but although I agree that Barclays made a mistake here, I 
think the compensation they have offered is sufficient. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The decision to advance or withdraw credit is a commercial decision that Barclays are 
entitled to make. They have an obligation to ensure the credit they advance is affordable for 
consumers and they will therefore review credit limits on an ongoing basis. I dont therefore 
think they did anything wrong when they decided, after one such review, to reduce Mrs Ws 
credit limit. It was a substantial decrease, but as Mrs W was only using around 10-20% of 
the limit and would only be using 50% of the revised limit, I dont think the reduction had a 
financial impact on her, or that Barclays therefore needed to reduce the limit more gradually.
Theres no dispute that Barclays agent made a mistake when advising Mrs W that she 
should be able to get her original credit limit reinstated if she closed her other accounts. That 
meant that Mrs W was deprived of further credit available to her on those accounts, as well 
as the credit that wasnt reinstated on her active account. But the other two accounts werent 
ones that Mrs W was utilising, so it wouldnt be fair to suggest their closure had a financial 
impact on Mrs W either.
Id expect Barclays to compensate Mrs W for the distress and inconvenience they caused 
when they provided inaccurate advice to her. Given the circumstances, however, I think the 
£50 they offered was fair and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman