DRN-3818646
The complaint
Mrs T complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC handled a cash withdrawal that she 
made over the counter.
What happened
Mrs T has a current account with Barclays. In July 2022, she visited a branch to withdraw 
some money over the counter. Mrs T asked for £3,500 in cash, which she intended to use to 
pay a third party. 
The cash wasnt counted out to Mrs T before she took it. In her testimony to our service, she 
says she left the branch thinking shed been handed three bundles of £1,000 each  along 
with another bundle of £500 bound with an elastic band. 
For the three bundles which allegedly contained £1,000, Barclays used banknote wraps to 
hold the notes together. But the amount printed on the wraps it used was £500  not £1,000. 
Barclays says it used these £500 wraps because they better fit the newer, smaller £20 
notes. The bank maintains, though, that the amount contained in each of those three 
bundles was £1,000. 
After returning home, Mrs T says she put the cash to one side for her husband to use the 
next day. She didnt count it. When Mrs Ts husband picked up the cash, he thought that all 
bundles were for £500  given the amount written on the wraps  and he handed everything 
over to the third party with that in mind. But that wasnt the amount due. 
Mrs T realised what had happened and her husband contacted the third party, but they 
denied receiving a larger payment than they were due. So, Mrs T thought that Barclays had 
made a mistake and had indeed only given her bundles of £500  just as the banknote 
wraps indicated. 
Mrs T went back to branch to question the matter. She asked to see any CCTV footage 
which might show what had happened  but the branch manager explained that due to the 
age of the branch, no cameras were in place over the counter area. The branch manager 
also confirmed that the branch had correctly balanced on the day Mrs T made her 
withdrawal, and there had been no till errors. 
The branch manager also reiterated that banknote wraps didnt always correspond with the 
amount of cash in a bundle  and there were several reasons wrappers could be different, 
like a branch running out of the correct type.  
Mrs T complained about what had happened. She felt sure that the bank had given her the 
wrong amount, and she was also unhappy that the branch had refused to take responsibility 
for the cash being incorrectly labelled. 
Barclays wrote to Mrs T with its final response on 25 July. In its letter, the bank said it was 
confident that the correct amount had been given to Mrs T. Barclays explained that all 
bundles of cash are counted and weighed by two members of staff before being put in a 
safe, ready to give to customers as and when needed. Further, the branch Mrs T had visited 
balanced correctly on the day in question. So, there was nothing to indicate that the amount 
Mrs T had been given wasnt correct.
Moreover, Barclays had received a statement from the branch manager which said that 
Mrs T had been shown the size difference between £1,000 and £500 wrapped bundles, and 
shed confirmed that shed received the larger.
Finally, Barclays explained that it has no liability once a customer leaves branch with their 
cash. And customers do have the option of counting the cash theyre given, but Mrs T had 
decided not to do this. 
Mrs T remained unhappy, so she contacted our service for an independent review. An 
investigator here looked at what had happened but, overall, he didnt think there was enough 
evidence to conclude that Mrs T had been given the wrong amount of cash. 
In summary, our investigator said:
Barclays has shown that its process is to hand count, and then weigh, cash before 
its given out in bundles to customers. There was no evidence to suggest this 
process wasnt followed and the bank records indicate that, on the day in question, 
the branch Mrs T visited had balanced correctly. So, theres no evidence to support 
Mrs Ts claim that she was given the wrong amount. 
Mrs T hadnt asked for the cash to be counted out to her. Instead, shed accepted the 
money over the counter and left the branch. And once a customer leaves branch with 
their money, Barclays considers that they are happy with the amount theyve been 
given  which isnt unreasonable. 
Mrs T had been handed three bundles in banknote wrappers and one other, smaller, 
bundle bound with an elastic band. So, it was more likely than not that the larger 
bundles did contain £1,000. And, moreover, if Mrs Ts husband hadnt counted them 
before handing the money over to a third party, Barclays couldnt be held 
responsible. 
Mrs T disagreed, and she asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said that Barclays was 
responsible for ensuring everything was documented correctly and accurately, but it hadnt 
done so. Additionally, Mrs T now said the unwrapped bundle wasnt held together with an 
elastic band. Rather, it was loose cash  which made it harder to tell if that bundle was 
smaller than those held together with banknote wrappers. 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs T feels very strongly about what happened here, and I can certainly 
understand why shes upset and worried about the money she says is missing. So, I think its 
important to say here  at the outset  that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
In other words, what I conclude here will be based upon what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence. Additionally, I should also point out that Ive not commented on each and every point that 
Mrs T has raised. I dont mean any discourtesy by this. Rather, it reflects the informal nature 
of our service. 
Turning to the matter at hand, Ive thought about Mrs Ts request for CCTV footage to show 
just what happened on the day in question. But it simply isnt available and, even if it was, I 
dont think it would make a material difference here. Thats because this dispute is about 
how much Mrs T was given over the counter, and CCTV, to my knowledge, is unlikely to be 
able to confirm that. So, CCTV  or the lack of it  isnt something to consider any further.
 
What I do have, is evidence from Barclays which shows that the branch balanced correctly 
on the day Mrs T withdrew money. And while this might not be absolute proof of what 
happened, it is persuasive. Thats because it allows me to conclude that the amount of 
money left in the branch at the end of the day was correct  not over, not under. And if Mrs T 
was given the wrong amount of cash, Id have expected it to come to light when the branch 
was cashing up at the end of the day. But no such issues were reported. 
On the other hand, Mrs T has provided some photographs of the cash bundles  which I 
understand she received from the third party who was paid them  and theres no dispute 
that the banknote wrappers Barclays used are labelled £500 and not £1,000. While there 
is a pen mark on the wrappers, I cant determine it conclusively to be a signature. I can see, 
though, that the wrappers had been stamped by the branch. 
Ill say here that I think, if the bundles did contain £1,000, then Barclays not marking the 
wrappers in some way  such as crossing out the wrong amount  was entirely unhelpful. 
I can surely understand why Mrs Ts husband, when he picked them up, wouldve thought 
the banknote wrappers were accurate and that each bundle therefore contained £500. I can 
also appreciate why Mrs T sees the wrappers as proof that she was given the wrong 
amount, given they are branch stamped. But while I know this will disappoint Mrs T, I dont 
see things in quite the same way. And I dont consider the banknote wrappers to be 
conclusive proof that Mrs T was given less cash than she asked for. 
I say that because Barclays cash handling process  and the testimony of its branch 
manager  explains that cash is counted by hand by two members of staff, weighed to 
double check the amount and then put into bundles. And Ive no reason to think this process 
wasnt followed on the day in question. The branch balancing, without any discrepancies 
anywhere near to the amount Mrs T says is missing, supports that.
Barclays has also provided an explanation for why it used the banknote wrappers that it did 
here. That being, it was reusing old wrappers which happen to be a better fit to hold the new 
style notes more securely in place. I dont find that implausible, and it doesnt strike me as 
particularly unusual that a bank may want to recycle old banknote wrappers. Nor does it 
seem unreasonable, in my view, to use those old wrappers if they hold notes more tightly 
and prevent any being lost. 
So, on balance, while I acknowledge Mrs Ts view that £500 banknote wrappers shouldnt 
have been used if not correct  and I can appreciate her point here  it isnt enough for me to 
safely conclude that she was given the wrong amount of money. Particularly when I consider 
it alongside the other evidence that has been presented.
Overall, the circumstances surrounding this complaint are finely balanced and it isnt 
possible for me to know with complete certainty what happened. I do truly empathise with Mrs T, clearly this matter has been very distressing for her. But based on the evidence I 
have available, and for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think I can fairly conclude that 
Barclays gave Mrs T less than what she asked for. It follows that I dont have reasonable 
basis to require the bank to pay Mrs T £1,500 to replace the money she says is missing. 
The bank has accepted that it couldve handled Mrs Ts complaint better than it did, 
particularly in branch, and its offered £100 in compensation to recognise those failings. 
From what Ive seen, I think that represents a fair and reasonable offer for the shortcomings 
in the service she received. So, Ill leave it with Mrs T to decide if she now wishes to accept 
this payment. She should contact Barclays directly if she wishes to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman