DRN-3515043
The complaint
G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed its account.
Mr P is the director of G and has brought this complaint on its behalf.
What happened
Mr P has three companies that held separate accounts with Barclays, each of which were 
subject to closure and have formed part of Mr Ps complaint to this service. Ive recently 
decided on another complaint about Mr Ps other business, in which I outlined the 
background of the complaint. As this is known to both sides, I wont go over the details again 
here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold it, for the following reasons:
In order to uphold a complaint, I first need to decide that the bank in question has got 
something wrong. And Ive not been able to find that here. 
Banks can choose who they offer accounts to and can choose to end commercial 
relationships as they see fit. This will usually be laid out in the terms and conditions 
of the account that the customer will have access to when they open it.
This service wouldnt usually interfere with a banks decision about who it offers an 
account to, including where it chooses to end a relationship, unless it were unlawful 
or it hadnt followed the process laid out in its terms and conditions. 
Here I can see that Barclays explained in the account terms that it can choose to 
close an account, and will give two months notice if it does. Im satisfied it informed 
Mr P about the closure over two months before the account was closed. So I find it 
acted fairly by closing Gs account. 
I understand the closure of this account, and others, has caused Mr P and his 
businesses a significant amount of distress and inconvenience and I greatly 
sympathise with his position. But as Ive found Barclays has acted fairly, I cant hold it 
responsible for the consequential losses or impact of the closures. So I wont ask 
Barclays to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P on behalf of 
G to accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman