DRN-3771299
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to stop a transaction 
he had asked them to block.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators opinion.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S asked Nationwide to place a block on a payee Ill call Z and I can see from their 
system notes that they did that on 3 February 2022. They blocked the payee name and the 
payees account number.
Unfortunately, the payee, was able to collect money in March 2022 as Nationwide have 
explained they used a different name and a different account number.
I understand Mr Ss frustration, but I dont think it would be fair to suggest Nationwide were 
at fault for that. They could only block the name and account they were told to block, and the 
merchant had reapplied for the autorenewal with different credentials.
I understand Mr Ss concern for the security of his account, but he was able to obtain a 
refund from the merchant and had he not been able to he would have been able to raise a 
chargeback claim through Nationwide to retrieve the funds. 
But as Ive not found Nationwide have done anything wrong here Im not asking them to take 
any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman