DRN-3619278
The complaint
Mrs P complains ITI Capital Limited (ITI Capital) took too long to sell her holdings and 
make her cash available to be drawn from her pension. She says she suffered losses as a 
result.
What happened
Mrs P had a pension operated by a third party. The pension held a trading account with 
ITI Capital. On 13 January 2021 an email was sent on Mrs Ps behalf to ITI Capital saying 
Mrs P wanted to sell all her trading account holdings and transfer the funds to the pension 
provider. The email asked ITI Capital how Mrs P could do this. Her query was repeated in an 
email on 19 January and an email and phone call on 3 February.
On 5 February ITI Capital emailed saying that all the trades, transfers or cash 
withdrawals, accounts closure requests should be initiated by the [pension] provider only and 
emailed to [email address given] Please contact your [pension] Provider and ask them to 
email us their signed disinvestment request letter. 
On the same day an email for Mrs P to ITI Capital disputed this in part - and said Mrs P was 
able to authorise trades and wanted to sell her shares. The email asked that Mrs P be told 
when this had happened and how much was raised, so she could let her pension provider 
know. A chaser for this was made on 8 February. She received a reply on 12 March, by 
which time her pension provider had already sent a request to ITI Capital.
On 16 February 2021 Mrs Ps pension provider emailed ITI Capital with an account closure 
request. It chased this on 4, 11, 19 and 30 March and 8 April 2021. On 30 March it said it 
had received £1549 but was expecting around £11,000.
On 9 April 2021 ITI Capital sold Mrs Ps holdings, producing around £11500. Her pension 
provider chased these proceeds a number of times in April and also May, at which point it 
expressed concern about where the money had gone. It chased again on 3 June and again 
on 15 June 2021.
Mrs P says the cash was finally sent to her pension provider in mid-June 2021. She says on 
15 May 2021 her pension incurred annual charges comprising a £907 administration charge, 
a £205 income drawdown charge and a £120 investment management charge. She says 
she wouldve avoided these had she been able to close the pension before that time and she 
couldve done so if ITI Capital hadnt delayed things. She actually drew out all the cash sums 
received from ITI Capital and then closed the pension in July 2021.
The pension provider has since agreed to charge for just the part of the year the pension 
was in force rather than for the whole year. So it has charged £205 in total, made up of a 
£151 annual charge, a £34 income drawdown charge and £20 for investment management. 
This is equivalent to paying for two rather than 12 months charges. 
Mrs P intended to draw £9000 from the pension in the 2020/2021 tax year. She has said she 
wouldve been able to use her personal income tax allowance so that she didnt incur income 
tax on this. She says that due to ITI Capital delaying things, the £9000 wasnt drawn in the 
2020/2021 tax year but in the following tax year. This resulted in her incurring basic rate tax 
on that whole amount at 20% or £1800 in total. This is because she started to draw her state 
pension in January 2021. So she received a few months state pension payments in the 
2020/2021 tax year - but received a full years worth in the following tax year, which used up 
more of her tax allowance and she had none left to cover the £9000 withdrawal.
Mrs P has also said she may have lost out on dividends due to stocks going ex-dividend in 
the period. She also points out her funds were disinvested for two months after her holdings 
were sold, but says it is hard to pin down the financial consequences of this.
ITI Capital has told us it received a 15 February 2021 account closure request. It paid the 
accounts existing cash of £1549 to the pension provider on 15 March. It realised Mrs Ps 
holdings by 13 April. But it didnt pay over the resulting cash and close the account until 
15 June 2021. It has apologised for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays 
and it offered Mrs P £500 compensation to settle her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think this was fair and thought ITI Capitals delays had led to Mrs P 
being unable to use personal allowance she would otherwise have used and that this meant 
she suffered more tax  as well as extra charges of £205 from the pension provider. So our 
investigator thought an offer covering the extra tax, the extra charges and a sum for distress 
and inconvenience would be fair.
ITI Capital didnt respond. 
Our investigator sent a June 2022 assessment saying ITI Capital should cover the extra tax 
Mrs P paid and also pay £205 for the extra charges. She also recommended ITI Capital pay 
£500 in view of worry the delays caused Mrs P.
ITI Capital didnt reply. 
Mrs P replied, welcoming our investigators assessment and its conclusions.
I wrote to ITI Capital and Mrs P on 21 September 2022 suggesting the information provided 
to us by Mrs P - and which our investigator had passed on to ITI Capital  showed that the 
amount Mrs P couldve drawn in the 2020/2021 tax year without paying tax was £8386 and 
so she couldve escaped £1677 tax on that amount if it had been available for her to draw in 
that tax year. I also said the £1549 ITI Capital had paid over to the pension in March 2021, if 
drawn before the end of the 2020/2021 tax year, wouldve saved Mrs P tax of £310.
I said if ITI Capital did delay Mrs Ps funds and should compensate her for the tax allowance 
that was wasted by this delay - but not for tax allowance she couldve still used despite this 
delay - the allowance she was deprived of due to the delay was £6837. So her tax loss was 
20% of £6837 making £1367.
I invited ITI Capital and Mrs P to comment on this. ITI Capital didnt reply. 
Mrs P did reply. She said, in brief summary:
She accepted there wasnt enough spare personal allowance to allow the full £1800 tax 
saving shed initially mentioned.
She instructed her pension provider to pay her £9000. Her provider acted on an 
execution-only basis. When funds to pay the requested withdrawal did not arrive, the 
provider didnt have authority to pay her £1549 instead before the end of the 2020/2021 tax year - or a remit to advise her to request such a payment. Her request for £9000 was 
made in good time for it to be completed before the end of the 2020/2021 tax year. It was 
never clear ITI Capital wasnt going to deliver, because ITI Capital never communicated 
properly with Mrs P or her pension provider. Mrs P had no reason to believe the £9000 
wouldnt be paid in full and in time. So, she didnt ask to withdraw the £1549 before the 
end of the 2020/2021 tax year because she fully expected to receive the full payment (of 
£9000) in a timely fashion, like both she and her husband had in previous years.
As well as the tax, there were the extra fees she had to pay, as listed by our investigator. 
It had taken a whole year to negotiate these down, pro-rata, to charges for the part-year.
The complaint wasnt resolved informally, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why and on what basis.
Ive seen nothing to suggest there was any good reason why ITI Capital couldnt have 
arranged to sell Mrs Ps holdings and pay the money across to her pension provider before 
the end of the 2020/2021 tax year. 
I say this on the basis that ITI Capital hasnt given any good reason why this shouldnt have 
happened. I also say this because there was plenty of time - more six weeks - between the 
pension providers instruction and the end of that tax year. 
In my view both the sale of the holdings and the payment of the resulting cash are 
transactions ITI Capital ought to have completed promptly once the instruction was received. 
In my view ITI Capital took too long over both.
In light of what Ive said above, I dont need to consider whether ITI Capital also took too 
long to respond to the email sent in January 2021 or whether it was reasonable for it to wait 
for a sale instruction from Mrs Ps pension provider rather than acting on her instruction. The 
time taken by ITI Capital was too long in any event.
If Mrs P had received her funds in the 2020/2021 tax year, I see no reason why she couldnt 
have drawn the £9000 she planned  and so saved tax that she instead had to pay when 
she drew that income in the following tax year. I also see no reason why in that situation she 
couldnt have drawn the rest of the income after 5 April 2021 and well before the May 2021 
date on which a further years pension charges became due.
So I think ITI Capitals delays are responsible for Mrs P paying additional tax and also paying 
additional pension charges. Mrs P has since had the pension charges reduced to £205. Her 
holdings ought to have been sold earlier by ITI Capital too, but she continued to receive the 
investment return during the delay. So I dont think that delay caused her financial loss. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs P has said about not withdrawing the £1549 that was 
transferred by ITI Capital to her pension provider in the 2020/2021 tax year. Shes explained 
why this didnt happen. I accept what she says about her pension providers role. I accept 
also that ITI Capital didnt communicate adequately with her or her pension provider about 
the delay. I also accept that Mrs P gave her instructions in plenty of time for funds to be paid 
by ITI Capital to allow her pension provider to pay the full £9000 she wanted that tax year.But I still think that as there was £1549 she couldve withdrawn in the 2020/2021 tax year, on 
balance it isnt fair and reasonable to award compensation for that part of her tax allowance 
not having been used. 
I say this bearing in mind Mrs P had a plan to take funds before the tax year end. So she 
was aware this was a significant deadline. She hadnt had confirmation that the requested 
payment had been made in time to meet the deadline. Also she had waited three weeks for 
a reply to her January request for guidance and then more than a month for a reply to her 
follow up question. She was aware ITI Capital was moving slowly. 
In these circumstances I dont think it would be fair for me to proceed on the basis that Mrs P 
could reasonably disregard the impending tax year deadline, thinking her request was bound 
to be completed before it. I say this while acknowledging that Mrs P did make her request in 
plenty of time and was not at fault for it not being carried out in time. But I think it wouldve 
been reasonable for her to seek to mitigate her tax loss by withdrawing what she could as 
the tax year deadline approached. 
So, on balance, I conclude the loss caused by ITI Capitals delay does not include that part 
of Mrs Ps tax allowance that she couldve used up by drawing the £1549. So I conclude that 
the tax loss caused by ITI Capital was 20% of £6837 making £1367. 
Ive considered also the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs P by ITI Capitals delay. 
Our investigator concluded that Mrs P suffered several months of worry. Im satisfied the 
delay caused Mrs P inconvenience, frustration and some worry too. ITI Capital hasnt said 
anything to make me think she didnt. In arriving at my award for this, I give weight here also 
to the frustration Mrs P suffered by virtue of ITI Capital keeping her from well over £10,000 
for around two months after it had sold her holdings. The financial implications of this are, as 
Mrs P says, difficult to specify but clearly this understandably frustrated and upset Mrs P.
I also note in passing that had it not been for ITI Capitals errors, Mrs P wouldnt have had to 
spend time negotiating to reduce the loss caused to her by ITI Capital, by seeking a rebate 
on the extra fees she was charged  something she has now successfully achieved.
Overall Im satisfied that ITI Capital did cause Mrs P distress and inconvenience and that the 
award of £500 suggested by our investigator  and also offered by ITI Capital earlier on but 
on a slightly different basis  is fair and reasonable redress for this in all the circumstances.
Finally, Id mention that Ive seen nothing to evidence a loss of dividends or to suggest that I 
ought to make an award for such a loss on top of the sums Ive already outlined above.
So, in conclusion, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint on the basis and to the extent I have set out 
above.
Putting things right
ITI Capital Limited should compensate Mrs P for the losses, distress and inconvenience its 
failings caused her to suffer. 
So, to put things right, ITI Capital Limited should:
Pay Mrs P £1367 for extra tax she paid.
Pay Mrs P £205 for extra charges she paid.
Pay Mrs P £500 for distress and inconvenience she suffered.If any of these sums arent paid to Mrs P within one month of ITI Capital Limited getting 
notification from us of Mrs Ps acceptance of this decision, then ITI Capital Limited should 
also pay Mrs P simple interest on any outstanding sum at the rate of 8% per year from the 
date of my decision until the date ITI Capital Limited pays Mrs P the relevant amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and I order ITI Capital Limited 
to put things right by paying Mrs P the sums Ive set out and explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman