DRN-3748072
The complaint
Ms C complains Amtrust Europe Limited treated her unfairly after she made a claim under 
her home emergency cover.
What happened
Ms C had a Bradford and Bingley branded home insurance policy. The policy included 
various different types of cover, which are underwritten and administered by different 
businesses. The cover relevant to this complaint is the buildings cover and home 
assistance cover.
The home assistance cover is underwritten by Amtrust, i.e. its the insurer thats responsible 
for any claims made under the home assistance part of the policy. The buildings part of the 
policy is underwritten by a different insurer.
The home assistance cover is more commonly known as a home emergency policy. Ms Cs 
cover gave assistance in an emergency situation, such as a leak. It covered the call-out 
charge, up to two hours labour, and parts and materials up to £100.
In December 2021, Ms C had a leak into her bedroom via the ceiling. Ms C called the home 
assistance helpline and a third-party engineer was appointed. The engineer attended the 
next day. 
Ms C says the engineer couldnt locate the cause of the leak, but he thought it might be the 
ballcock in the water tank. Ms C says the engineer advised he couldnt risk changing the 
ballcock as the tank contains asbestos, but he called his colleague to obtain a quote for 
removing and replacing the old tank. Ms C received a text message two days later 
confirming the repair had been complete, despite no work having been done. 
Ms C says she called the various helpline numbers, but either there was no response or no 
record of her claim. She says she went on to email the policy administrator, who eventually 
referred her to the underwriter of the buildings cover. The buildings underwriter explained 
that whilst it could consider a claim for the damage caused by the leak, Ms C would be 
responsible for fixing the leak first. 
Ms C says she emailed the policy administrator again, who this time referred her to Amtrust. 
In February 2022, Ms C received an email from a third-party claims handler that was acting 
on Amtrusts behalf. The email noted the engineers report hadnt been received, but it was 
believed the repair had been successful. Ms C replied to the email on the same day, 
disputing a repair had been carried out. She also contacted our service.
Over the next three weeks, Ms C chased Amtrusts appointed claims handler for a response. 
Ms C was then sent the engineers report which stated: Arrived on site and found asbestos 
tanks leaking. Advised would need licensed company to remove and replace. Ms C again 
replied on the same day, disputing the accuracy of the report. She said the engineer didnt 
know where the leak was coming from, only that he suspected there was an issue with the 
overflow in the tank, which he couldnt investigate due to the presence of asbestos. Ms C 
also said she wasnt told she would need to arrange for the tank to be replaced herself.
No further response was received from Amtrust or its appointed claims handler, until Ms C 
chased again in May 2022. At that time, Amtrust told Ms C and our service it would be 
responding to her complaint.
In July 2022, the administrator of the home assistance cover (which is different to the policy 
administrator) responded to Ms Cs complaint on Amtrusts behalf. To summarise, the 
response set out the following:
- The engineer diagnosed the leak to be from the water tank. Due to the presence of 
asbestos a specialist company would be required to repair or replace the tank. The 
work involved wouldnt fall within the labour or parts and materials cover limits. The 
engineer advised Ms C to seek assistance from a specialist.
- Amtrusts involvement had come to an end, which is why Ms C was sent the text 
message. Whilst the text message may have been confusing as the job wasnt 
complete, Amtrust couldnt assist further under the home assistance cover.
Ms C was unhappy with Amtrusts response, so one of our investigators considered her 
complaint. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Because Ms C 
disagreed, her complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining I intended to uphold the complaint in part. In my 
provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete, or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Claim decision
The home assistance cover provides immediate assistance for the emergency. However, it 
doesnt cover any resulting damage. So, in the event of a leak, Amtrust will stop and repair 
the leak subject to the policy limits. The policyholder would then need to make a separate 
claim under their buildings cover for the damage caused by the leak.
The emergency cover is limited to two hours labour, and £100 for parts and materials. In this 
case, due to the presence of asbestos in the water tank, Amtrust concluded the repair would 
exceed the policy limits. Ms C hasnt provided anything that shows the leak wasnt coming 
from the water tank or that the tank didnt contain asbestos, and nor has Ms C shown the 
leak could have been repaired within the policy limits.So, based on the information presented, Im not persuaded Amtrusts claim decision was 
incorrect here. Im more persuaded that due to the suspected cause of the leak, and the 
policy limits, there was no cover for stopping or repairing the leak under the home 
assistance part of the policy. 
Customer service
Amtrust is responsible for the actions of the home assistance administrator, the third-party 
claims handler, and the appointed engineer. So, Ive considered the service provided by 
those parties.
I find Ms Cs testimony about the engineers visit to be credible. Ms C says she was left with 
the impression the tank would be removed and replaced. She has provided the name of the 
colleague the engineer allegedly spoke to, and the colleague has since confirmed by email 
the engineer requested a quote. Whilst the colleague didnt say whether she spoke to the 
engineer during the visit, overall, I accept Ms Cs version of events given she recalls the 
colleagues name. On balance, Im persuaded Ms C was unintentionally misled by the 
engineer about the work being covered and the next steps.
Ms C then received a text message confirming the repair had been completed. Clearly, the 
text message was further misleading in respect of the repairs being covered and the work 
having been carried out.
Its not clear which helpline numbers Ms C went on to call or how often she tried the home 
assistance helpline, and Amtrust isnt responsible for the policy administrator mistakenly 
referring her to the buildings underwriter in January 2022. But I can understand why the 
situation would have been confusing for Ms C, and I dont doubt her experience was 
frustrating.  
When Ms C was finally referred to Amtrust in February 2022, the appointed claims handler 
wasnt aware of the status of the claim. Furthermore, on two occasions, the claims handler 
failed to respond to Ms Cs emails for significant periods of time. I havent seen Amtrust 
provided a clear answer to Ms C about her home assistance claim until July 2022.
As such, Im persuaded Amtrust wasnt clear about the claim not being covered following the 
engineers visit in December 2021, and Amtrust later failed to clarify the position between 
February 2022 and July 2022. Its clear Amtrust also didnt provide a reasonable level of 
service, in respect of responding to Ms Cs emails.
As I understand it, the leak wasnt continuous between December 2021 and July 2022, but 
rather, it was occurring intermittently. Nonetheless, Ms C was having to live with a bucket 
underneath the ceiling. Ive also seen the lack of clarity about what was happening on the 
claim, and having to chase, caused a great deal of upset and inconvenience. In my view, 
had Amtrust been clearer with Ms C, she would have likely taken steps to repair the leak 
herself some seven months earlier  avoiding the confusion, upset, and inconvenience. 
Having carefully considered what happened and the impact on Ms C, I intend to award her 
£400 compensation.
Ms C accepted my provisional decision. Amtrust confirmed it had received my provisional 
decision, and that it had no further comments.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision, or at least, no new points were made. So, it 
follows that my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, for the same 
reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint in 
part. My final decision is Amtrust Europe Limited should pay Ms C £400 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman