DRN-2420276
The complaint
Mrs C complains that West Bromwich Building Society (WBBS) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1995 when Mrs C was applying for a top up 
to a mortgage shed taken out in 1991. The policy provided cover for Mrs C if she couldnt 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If WBBS gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mrs Cs needs?
- Did WBBS give Mrs C the information she needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mrs 
C is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs C says the PPI paperwork was completed by WBBSs adviser and she signed where 
she was told to. She says the policy wasnt discussed in any detail and WBBS didnt give her 
a proper choice about buying it. Ive noted everything Mrs C has said.
WBBS hasnt provided much documentation from the point of sale. Thats not surprising, 
given the amount of time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases Ive seen.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs C and WBBS 
when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
The PPI application form was separate to Mrs Cs mortgage application. So I think she 
wouldve realised that they were different products, and that she didnt need to buy the PPI 
to get the loan she wanted.
Without anything else to support what Mrs C has told me, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably say that WBBS didnt make Mrs C aware the PPI was optional, or give her a 
choice about buying it. 
WBBS accepts that it advised Mrs C to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
- Mrs C was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Mrs C says she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she was off work sick, 
and that she couldve relied on friends and family to help her. But the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to her employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. 
Having the policy in place wouldve meant Mrs C couldve used her employer 
benefits to cover other expenses. And it wouldve meant she didnt have to rely on 
her friends and family. So I think she wouldve had some use for the policy, despite 
her existing arrangements. 
- Mrs C wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, 
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As she could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely she needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mrs C before 
she agreed to buy it. But Mrs C took out the policy knowing she would have to pay 
something for it. It seems the policy was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs C would have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information WBBS gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mrs C wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs C would 
have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think she 
would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman