DRN-2984146
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited) didnt reimburse 
all costs incurred by Mr E following a claim on his motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr E had an accident in February 2020, having collided with roadside fencing and posts. He 
notified Accredited and was informed that his car would be recovered two days later. This 
didnt happen as Accredited didnt have an accredited repair garage in Mr Es area. Mr E 
himself arranged and paid £264 for recovery of his car to a repair garage. 
Accredited commissioned a report into the circumstances of the accident and the report was 
received in early March 2020. It also requested that the repair garage send an estimate of 
the repair costs for consideration. The garage provided a repair estimate with regards to 
paint and materials in early April 2020. It didnt include the cost of parts however due to the 
impact of the covid pandemic. At the beginning of July 2020, Accredited confirmed that an 
engineer had assessed the damage and concluded that the car was beyond economic 
repair. The engineer placed a pre-accident value of £17,280 on the car.
Mr E hired a car throughout the period from February to July and paid the hire company 
£2,640. Mr E also paid £3,000 in garage storage fees to release the car, whilst Accredited 
had already paid £1,920 to the garage for storage fees.
Mr E didnt receive the first cheque initially issued by Accredited in relation to his car value. It 
was reissued but with £2,670 deducted in relation to the storage fees. This sum was also 
subsequently paid to Mr E by Accredited however.
Mr E complained to Accredited about its service and that he had not been reimbursed for the 
costs of recovery, storage and car hire. Accredited considered the costs to be unreasonable 
and refused to pay. Mr E therefore complained to our service.
Our investigator took the view that Accredited should reimburse Mr E all of the costs he had 
incurred. The investigator said that, although there are no set time limits on how long a claim 
should take, we expect insurers to settle claims promptly.
The investigator said that the policy is one of indemnity and that when a customers car is 
written off, it should put customers back in the position they were in before the loss occurred. 
He thought that was not the case having considered the relevant circumstances and what Mr 
E had paid out without being reimbursed. He also thought that Mr E should also be awarded 
£200 in compensation to cover the distress and inconvenience this issue had caused him.
Accredited didnt agree with this in full. It agreed that it should pay the car recovery fee and a 
portion of the cost of hire car but not the remainder. The matter has therefore been referred 
to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its my role to decide whether Accredited applied the terms and conditions of the motor 
insurance policy in a fair and reasonable manner. In this case, I dont consider that it has. Ill 
explain why.
The starting point for me is therefore to look at the relevant terms and conditions of Mr Es 
car insurance policy.
Under the heading; What to do if you have an accident, the policy states;
Calling us straightaway provides you with benefits which may include the following 
(dependant on the level of policy cover you have) 
-FREE courtesy car supplied if you use an approved repairer (subject to your car 
being repairable and availability)
-FREE collection and re-delivery 
We will deal with your claim and claims made against you, as quickly and fairly as possible.
If you choose not to use our approved repairer:
 i) you must obtain a written estimate for repair from your repairer before instructing the 
repairer,
ii) we will authorise repairs by your repairer only if we consider the estimate for repairs
reasonable,
iii) If we believe the estimate is unreasonable we may at our sole option, settle the claim for
repairs to your car by paying the amount quoted by our approved repairer less the applicable
Excess.
The policy also states; -
If your car is damaged and the damage is covered by your policy, you should use our 
nationwide network of approved repairers. Each approved repairer will; -
-Collect and deliver you car free of charge
-Have authority to proceed with repairs quickly.
Accredited states that it has a comprehensive network of repairers but acknowledges that it 
wasnt able to secure an approved repairer in this case. It considered that it shouldnt be 
deemed at fault or negligent however for not having a garage in that particular location. It 
states that it doesnt guarantee this.
Accredited has now accepted that it will pay the cost of recovery in the sum of £264. This 
accords with the policy which allows for free collection following prompt notification of an 
accident. As Mr E notified Accredited promptly of the accident and it was unable to collect 
the vehicle, its only fair and reasonable that it reimburses this cost.
Accredited has also agreed to pay half of the hire car costs. Accredited has therefore 
accepted that, in principle, Mr E had the correct level of policy cover in order to be eligible for 
a courtesy car. I note that this is subject to the car being repairable and subject to availability 
and that in this case, it was eventually deemed not to be repairable. Mr E said that he thought that Accredited had had ample time during the five weeks between 
the accident and the first covid lockdown to write the car off. He considered that the reason 
they had not done so was that it gave an incomplete list of requirements to the garage.
Accredited have stated that the garage was responsible for the delay in providing a quote. 
The garage did however provide a partial repair estimate on 1 April 2020, which was already 
at a level of £7,710 including VAT before quoting for parts. It reported; After stripping the 
vehicle and having a proper assessment done, I would suggest that the car could possibly 
be written-off as the n/s chassis leg has substantial damage to it and had moved.
Im satisfied also that, due to the terms of Mr Es policy, it would have been reasonable for 
Mr E to expect any repairs to have been carried out quickly by an approved repairer. This 
didnt happen for the reasons given above. Im also satisfied that, on the available evidence, 
it would have been reasonable for Accredited to have determined that the car was a total 
loss much earlier than it did in all the circumstances.
Mr E would therefore have been led to believe that his car would be repairable for a period of 
many months. Due to his own circumstances and the exceptional covid circumstances, Im 
satisfied that it was reasonable for him to hire a car for the whole of the period. The 
exceptional difficulties caused by the covid pandemic meant that an assessment of whether 
a car was a write-off, which would normally take a few days, took several months in this 
case. Finally, with regard to the car hire costs, Im satisfied that Mr E wasnt offered any 
suggestions or offer to help to deal with the situation by Accredited
In conclusion, Mr E should be treated in the same way as if Accredited had been able to 
secure the services of an approved repairer and so, a courtesy car would have been at least 
available in principle. Im satisfied therefore that Accredited should reimburse Mr E for the 
total cost of hire in the sum of £2,640
As to the storage charges of the repair garage, Accredited have said that the repair garage 
had made attempts to charge an unreasonable amount of storage to it directly, for the period 
that the vehicle was on site, despite it being an ongoing situation which was beyond 
anyone's control.
Accredited have stated that as a goodwill gesture, it agreed to settle a part amount of the 
storage charges, being for 60 days amounting to a total of £1,500 plus VAT. The garage 
then charged Mr E an additional £2,500 plus VAT in order to release the car. Accredited said 
it couldnt understand why Mr E had paid the garage this sum. It said that it had no control 
over the garages actions as they were not under any contract or agreed rates with 
Accredited. It said that it had acted fairly by offering to pay part of the storage charges.
I can understand why Mr E paid the sum however as he wanted the matter to be settled after 
such a lengthy period of time. Mr E would understandably have wished to return the hire car 
to mitigate these costs and to purchase a new vehicle. 
In the circumstances, I agree with our investigator in this respect. Accredited had contact 
with the repair garage from February 2020 and could have done more to try to mitigate the 
storage costs through negotiating fees with the garage or assisting Mr E to find an 
alternative repairer. I cant say that Accredited have acted fairly and reasonably in this 
regard either and it should refund this amount to Mr E.
As to Mr Es complaint about service failure by Accredited regarding the settlement payment 
of £17,280 less the excess amount, Mr E was informed by Accredited that it would raise a 
payment to him shortly. A payment wasnt raised until some weeks later and I do consider 
there to have been a less than efficient service in this respect.With regard to compensation, Accredited say that it wasnt the cause of any inconvenience, 
even though it has accepted that it would pay at least a part of the additional costs incurred 
by Mr E. 
I do consider that failure by Accredited to reimburse the costs for a lengthy period of time to 
have created an inconvenience. Mr E had paid for his policy and would have expected to 
have received the services indicated on his policy. I conclude that the failure to settle the car 
value claim promptly to have caused distress and inconvenience to Mr E. He also had to 
chase the sum of £2,670. Accredited have accepted that they; agree we definitely should 
not have offset those charges against the customers potential settlement given it was not 
their fault either, just the garages. In the circumstances Im satisfied that a compensation 
payment of £200 for the stress and inconvenience caused to Mr E, is appropriate for the 
above reasons.
My final decision
 In the circumstances and for the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Es complaint. To put 
things right, I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to do the following; -
- Reimburse Mr E the sum of £5,904 for the costs of recovery of the vehicle, its storage and 
for car hire costs.
- Add interest, at the annual rate of 8% simple*, to all amounts already paid by Mr E 
calculated from the date of Mr Es payment to the date of settlement.
- Compensate Mr E £200 for the trouble and inconvenience caused by Accrediteds handling 
of this matter.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman