DRN-4404414
The complaint
Mr W complains Accelerant Insurance UK Limited unfairly declined a claim he made for 
damage to his roof under his workmanship warranty insurance.
What happened
Mr W had solar panels installed on his roof in 2013 and was given a guarantee for the works 
by the installer. He was also provided with a workmanship warranty insurance which would 
provide cover if the company who installed the panels ceased to trade. This was 
underwritten by Accelerant. In 2022 Mr W noticed an error message; indicating a fault with 
the solar panels. He understood the company who installed them had ceased trading and so 
made a claim to Accelerant. 
Accelerant noted issues with the solar panels, but also the roof, which had been damaged. It 
said this was down to the way the panels were installed. Accelerant accepted the claim 
partially, it said it would pay for the damage to the solar panels, but not the damage to the 
roof. It said only the damage to the solar panels was covered under the insurance. 
Mr W complained. He said the guarantee that was provided by the installation company 
included damage caused by the installation, not just damage to the solar panels themselves. 
So he thought the insurance policy should cover what the guarantee covered. Accelerant 
didnt agree to change its position, so a complaint was brought to this service.
Our investigator was satisfied Accelerant had acted fairly in saying the damage to the roof 
wasnt covered. She accepted that the guarantee provided by the installer provided wider 
cover, but as that company had ceased to trade, the only cover in place was that provided 
by the insurance policy, which only covered certain works. 
Mr W didnt accept that. He said the definition of insured works under the policy must be 
read alongside the guarantee he received when the solar panels were installed. He said if 
you do that, then insured works also means the installation of the solar panels, not just the 
panels themselves. As the matter hasnt been resolved it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of this complaint, Mr W has raised a number of different points. As this is an informal 
service, Ive not responded to each one individually. Instead, Ive focussed on those I 
consider to be key to the outcome here. However I want to reassure Mr W that Ive 
considered everything hes said carefully when reaching my decision. 
When Mr Ws solar panels were installed, the company who carried out the work provided a 
workmanship guarantee for ten years. Covered in that guarantee was a term that said, 
should the company cease trading, an insurance policy would ensure that the guarantee 
would be honoured for the same period.  
Ive reviewed the terms of the insurance policy provided by Accelerant. It says it provides 
cover for the insured works which it defines as the small-scale renewable heat or power 
generating system installed by the contractor. Im satisfied, based on reading this, that there 
is no cover in place for damage caused during the installation. A reasonable interpretation is 
that only the panels being covered.  And later the policy says the insurer shall not be liable 
forany loss or damage to the policyholders property caused by the contractor that do not 
form part of the insured works. So as the roof, or the installation of the panels, doesnt form 
part of the insured works, Accelerant doesnt have to cover it. 
I realise this leaves Mr W in a difficult position; hes been told the panels werent installed 
correctly which has caused damage to his property. And he has no recourse against the 
company that installed them. But that doesnt mean his insurance policy needs to respond.
Mr W has said that in the policy document, it refers to the guarantee he had with the 
company, so he said the two documents need to be read together and if so, its clear the 
insured works also includes the installation, and not just the panels themselves. Ive seen 
the copy of the guarantee he was provided. I accept this does say it provides cover for both 
the installation and the goods. But Mr W isnt making a claim on the guarantee. He cant 
make a claim to the installer under it as theyre no longer operating. And Ive no power to 
consider the wording of the guarantee because it isnt a regulated product, and so isnt 
covered by this service. 
Because the installer has ceased trading, the insurance policy steps in. But it is for the 
insurer to decide what it will and wont provide cover for. At the top of the insurance policy 
document it says that the policy of insurance, key facts and the policy summary set out the 
terms of the contract between Mr W and insurer and should be read as one document. It 
doesnt refer to the guarantee other than to say that it wouldnt do any work not covered by 
the guarantee. But it doesnt say it will cover everything the guarantee did cover. As set out 
above it has its own definition of insured works.
I realise Mr W feels strongly about this, but it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to require 
Accelerant to cover the roof repairs under his policy.
My final decision
My final decision is Im not going to ask Accelerant Insurance UK Limited to do anything 
differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman