DRN-1636177
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M took out a joint Platinum Account (PA) with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) in July 
2012 and they say it was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M say they had no knowledge of being told they would be charged a fee for the 
PA. They say that they didnt use the benefits of the PA and it was not suitable for them. 
Our adjudicator didnt think that Lloyds mis-sold the account. Mr and Mrs M disagree so the 
case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Ill first consider whether Mr and Mrs M knew they had a choice about taking out the PA; 
then whether Lloyds acted correctly when making the sale.
Lloyds has provided evidence that Mr and Mrs M had fee free bank accounts before and 
after they took out the PA. So, in my view they would have been aware that fee free bank 
accounts were available to them from Lloyds and others at the time of the sale.
Lloyds has also provided an unsigned copy of the Your personal needs form and a signed 
copy of the acknowledgement form from the sale. The latter form includes a statement 
about the monthly charge and is signed by Mrs M. 
So, I dont think I can say that its more likely than not Mr and Mrs M had no knowledge that 
they had taken out a PA and were to pay a monthly fee for it, as I would need to if I were to 
uphold their complaint on this point.     
So, in my view Mr and Mrs M were aware they had a choice about whether to take out the 
PA for a monthly fee or not and they chose to do so.
Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the PA which was sold in a branch. So, the 
requirement on Lloyds was to provide enough information to them to make an informed 
choice about the PA and to check whether the account was suitable for them.
As Ive mentioned above Lloyds has provided the two forms from the time of the sale. Based 
on these I think its more likely than not that a substantial discussion about the benefits took 
place and Lloyds recommended the PA based on what Mrs M said.
The PA benefits included worldwide travel insurance, AA breakdown cover, mobile phone 
insurance and sentinel card protection. It also provided a £250 fee free overdraft buffer. 
At the time of sale, Lloyds has provided evidence that Mr and Mrs M travelled regularly, had 
a car and a mobile phone, and they had previously used their overdraft.
So, I think its more likely than not that they would have been interested in the PA, and that 
the account was suitable for them. And although Mr and Mrs M say that they didnt use the 
benefits, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in selling the PA to them.
So overall, I dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the PA to Mr and Mrs M or that they lost out as a 
result of anything Lloyds did or didnt do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman