DRN-2286328
The complaint
Ms N originally complained that Phoenix Life Limited wouldnt allow her to nominate the 
executor of her estate to receive pension benefits following her death. She also complained 
that Phoenix had failed to make her aware that her ill-health would allow her to take her 
pension benefits earlier than planned. Whilst I have been dealing with the original complaint 
a further matter has arisen that Ms N and Phoenix have agreed I should deal with here. So 
Ms N also complains that Phoenix has failed to allow her to nominate revised beneficiaries 
by telephone and requires her to provide a signed form instead.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2020. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I provide an extract below.
In my provisional decision I said;
Ms N holds pension savings with Phoenix in a personal pension. Over the years I can see 
that Ms N has made previous complaints to Phoenix about the administration of her 
pension benefits. But my decision on this complaint will only deal with the matters arising 
after, and including, Ms Ns call to Phoenix in May 2019.
In May 2019 Ms N called Phoenix. On that call she advised that she wanted to amend her 
previous nomination of beneficiary for her pension benefits following her death. She 
asked for clarification about the stipulation on the form that a nominee could not be a 
personal representative. Phoenix confirmed this included an executor nominated in 
Ms Ns will. During that call Ms N also made Phoenix aware that she had received a 
terminal diagnosis in December 2017.
On the call Phoenix made Ms N aware that her diagnosis meant that she could take her 
pension benefits earlier than planned. It sent her a final response letter explaining that 
Phoenix would not allow an executor of a will to be nominated as a beneficiary. Phoenix 
also accepted that it hadnt dealt with Ms Ns complaint as well as it should have and paid 
her £75 to reflect the trouble and upset shed been caused.
The following day Phoenix had another phone conversation with Ms N as she was still 
unclear about her beneficiary nomination. Phoenix sent Ms N a further letter trying to 
provide more clarity about who Ms N could nominate. Ms N was not happy with the 
responses shed received from Phoenix so brought her complaint to this Service.  
Ms Ns complaint was assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
information Phoenix had ultimately provided about who Ms N could nominate as her 
beneficiary was clear. And he thought that the information Phoenix had provided to Ms N 
over the years about getting in touch if there had been any changes in her circumstances 
had been reasonable. He noted that as soon as Phoenix had become aware of Ms Ns 
terminal diagnosis it provided her with information about her options. He thought that the 
compensation Phoenix had paid to Ms N was fair.
At our investigators request Phoenix wrote again to Ms N in January 2020 to give further 
clarity on her nomination options. In that letter it told Ms N that her friend can be 
nominated as a beneficiary of the policy but an executor (of your will) cannot be.
Since we have started looking at this complaint Ms Ns health has worsened. Her 
personal circumstances have also changed resulting in her needing to make changes to 
her previous beneficiary nominations. Ms N explained to Phoenix that her medical 
conditions, and the steps she needed to take at the current time to avoid infection from 
Covid-19, meant that she was unable to leave her home. So she asked Phoenix to accept 
changes to her nominated beneficiaries by telephone.
Although Phoenix has noted those changes on Ms Ns records it has told her that it 
required a signed nomination form to be returned. To help with that process Phoenix has 
sent Ms N a part completed form that only requires her signature. Ms N doesnt think that 
is a reasonable adjustment and has asked us to consider a further complaint about this 
matter. Phoenix has consented to the matter being included within this complaint and 
decision.  
I will deal with each of the three aspects of the complaint separately.
Did Phoenix provide Ms N with sufficient information about changes to the policy?
Over the years that Ms N has held her pension policy with Phoenix the legislation has 
changed. When she first took the policy some of her benefits could only be taken at her 
selected retirement age. However that legislation has changed and now, in cases of 
severe ill-health or a terminal diagnosis, those benefits can be taken earlier. 
Phoenix was aware that Ms N had cancer in 2013. But at that stage I dont think it had 
any indication of the likely outcome of the disease. In fact Ms N has said that it wasnt 
until December 2017 that her consultant explained her likely prognosis. So, when the 
legislative changes were made Phoenix had no expectation that they would apply to Ms N 
at that time. And many legislative changes are made over the lifetime of the pension 
policies that Phoenix offers. I dont think it is practical for Phoenix to individually inform 
each policyholder of these changes and the impacts they might have.
Instead Phoenix advises consumers to get in touch should they experience a change in 
their circumstances. I think that is a reasonable approach as it allows the firm to consider 
a consumers specific circumstances and provide information tailored to that situation. 
And that is exactly what happened when Ms N made Phoenix aware of her terminal 
diagnosis in May 2019.
I have considered that Phoenix was aware that Ms N had a diagnosis of cancer following 
the changes to the legislation. But a majority of people diagnosed with cancer go on to 
live relatively normal lives for many years. I dont think that diagnosis changes my view on 
what Phoenix should reasonably have done.
So I dont think Phoenix has treated Ms N unfairly in the information it provided to her 
about her pension benefits. I think it did respond promptly when Ms N made it aware of 
the change in her circumstances and provided the relevant information. I appreciate how 
disappointing it is for Ms N that she didnt have access to her pension savings at a time 
when they might have been very useful to her. But I cannot conclude that was a result of 
something that Phoenix failed to do.
Was the information Phoenix provided about beneficiary nominations clear?I think what Ms N wanted to do with regard to her beneficiary nominations was clear. She 
had a friend who had agreed to act as the executor of her estate. And she also wanted 
that friend to be the nominated beneficiary for her pension benefits. I dont think that is an 
unusual situation.
Phoenix needs to take care to ensure that when it pays pension benefits following the 
death of a policyholder it does so in a way that doesnt attract inheritance tax. Payments 
to the estate of the deceased would attract this taxation. So Phoenix can exercise its 
discretion, even after a valid nomination has been received, to make any payment as it 
sees fit. And it is that care that I think has led to the confusion here.
I have read the form that Ms N was sent to complete about her beneficiary nomination. 
And I have read the information that Phoenix gave to her in its letters of June 2019 and its 
final clarification of January 2020. After reading those letters I was not in a position where 
I could give Ms N any assurance that she was able to nominate her executor, in a 
personal capacity as her friend, to be a beneficiary following her death.
I have since corresponded with Phoenix and following that email was able to give Ms N 
the reassurance that she had been seeking for almost a year. I dont think what Phoenix 
has done here is reasonable. Whilst it has perfectly valid and compelling business 
reasons to ensure that any beneficiary nominations dont cause unforeseen problems, 
Phoenix needed to treat Ms N fairly. It needed to provide her with clear and accessible 
information about her choices. I think that Phoenix allowed its business processes to get 
in the way of providing the information that Ms N sought. 
As I have said earlier, Ms Ns personal circumstances have now changed. And so the 
individual she wished to nominate is no longer part of her nomination. However at the 
time I am sure that this matter caused a significant amount of trouble and upset to Ms N. 
So I am intending to direct that Phoenix makes a further payment of £300 to Ms N in 
respect of that inconvenience.
Should Phoenix accept Ms Ns revised beneficiary nominations by telephone?
Ms N got in touch with Phoenix recently to update her nominated beneficiaries. There 
were some problems with Phoenix implementing that specific nomination due to 
limitations on its systems, but I understand those have now been resolved and dont form 
part of the remaining complaint. But Phoenix has insisted that its rules require a signed 
confirmation from Ms N of the revisions to her nominations.
Given Ms Ns failing health Phoenix has accepted information about the changes via the 
telephone. And it has transposed those details onto a nomination form that it has sent to 
Ms N for her signature. Ms N has told me that she is finding it difficult to deal with 
correspondence or arrange for items to be returned by post.
As I mentioned earlier, any nomination that Ms N makes is simply an expression of wish 
to the trustees of the pension scheme. So even if an entirely valid nomination was 
returned to Phoenix then it wouldnt be binding on the trustees.
Phoenix has confirmed that it holds details of Ms Ns wishes on its system. If no signed 
nomination is received then it will apply its normal processes in terms of the exercise of 
the trustees discretion. But it has also said that the information recorded by telephone 
would be made available to the trustees.
It isnt appropriate for me to direct the reasonable business processes of Phoenix. I think 
its rules are clear that nominations such as these are required to be signed by the consumer. I have thought about the adjustments that Phoenix has offered to Ms N  
sending her a competed form for signature and return  and think that these are 
reasonable in the current circumstances. I dont think it would be fair for me to expect 
Phoenix to do more here.
So in summary, I dont think Phoenix has treated Ms N unfairly either in terms of the 
information it provided to her about the changes to the way in which she could take her 
benefits, or the way in which it has handled changes to her beneficiary nominations. But I 
do think Phoenix should have provided Ms N with clearer answers to her questions about 
who she could nominate as a beneficiary.
I asked both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Phoenix told us that it didnt have anything further to add. Ms N 
provided her comments during a phone call with one of our investigators. I have listened to a 
recording of that phone call. Although I have only, very briefly, summarised the main points 
on that call I have taken everything Ms N told us into consideration when reaching my 
decision.
Ms N said that she accepted my provisional findings in respect of the information Phoenix 
had given her about changes to her pension policy and taking her benefits earlier due to her 
ill health. And she thought that the compensation I had asked Phoenix to pay in respect of 
the trouble and upset shed been caused by the lack of clarity in the information shed been 
given about who she could nominate as a beneficiary was also fair. So those two aspects of 
her complaint were now resolved. But Ms N wasnt happy that Phoenix had treated her fairly, 
or made reasonable adjustments, in respect of her providing revised details of her 
nominated beneficiaries.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As before, in deciding this complaint, Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory 
rules, and good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the 
submissions that have been made by Ms N and by Phoenix. Where the evidence is unclear, 
or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In 
other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, 
to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened. 
Ms N has confirmed that she accepts the provisional findings I repeated above in respect of 
the first two parts of her complaint. So except for the redress I will direct Phoenix to pay, 
I dont see any reason to make further comment on those aspects of the complaint.
Since Ms N responded to my provisional decision I have had further conversations with 
Phoenix about what it requires from Ms N to successfully nominate her chosen beneficiaries. 
Following those discussions Phoenix agreed to meet Ms Ns request to send a part 
completed form to her by courier, so that she could sign the form and give it back to the 
waiting courier for return to Phoenix.
Unfortunately before that courier could be arranged Ms N was readmitted to hospital. And 
due to the current restrictions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic it isnt possible for Phoenix 
to deliver the form to Ms N in hospital. Phoenix agreed, as an interim measure, to hold 
Ms Ns nominations given by telephone as if they had been received in writing.We have had further discussions with Phoenix since then. Following those discussions 
Phoenix has now agreed that it no longer requires Ms N to provide her instructions in writing. 
Instead it has said that it will accept the information given by telephone instead. I understand 
that Ms N might be concerned about this change in approach, and so I have agreed with 
Phoenix that I will make a specific direction in this decision about the change it has agreed 
to. That means that, should Ms N accept this final decision, that agreement will be legally 
binding on Phoenix. 
Putting things right
Phoenix should pay the sum of £300 (in addition to what it has already paid) to Ms N in 
respect of the trouble and upset she was caused by the unclear information she was given 
about who she could nominate as a beneficiary.
On 13 January 2021 Phoenix provided this Service with an updated Nomination of 
Beneficiary Form reflecting the wishes Ms N had expressed to our investigator. Phoenix 
should treat that form as if it had been signed by Ms N on that date and make the 
appropriate notes on its systems so that the unsigned form is treated in an equivalent 
manner to a signed form following Ms Ns death.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold parts of Ms Ns complaint and direct Phoenix Life Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman