DRN-3877930
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (C&G) 
has rejected his claim for veterinary treatment for his dog.
Ive previously issued a provisional decision in this case in response to which I received 
further comments from Mr M which Ill refer to below.
What happened
Mr M took out insurance with C&G for his dog, who Ill refer to as R, on 8 January 2022. R 
had previously been insured with another insurer.
Mr M says R had had some lumps for a few months, but he believed these to be lumps 
caused by her allergies or just fatty lumps which he says are common in Rs breed. On 9 
February 2022 Mr M took R to her vet as hed spoken to the owner of a dog of the same 
breed whod recently had some cancerous lumps removed and whod advised him that he 
should get Rs lumps checked.
The vet did some tests and suspected that R had at least one mast cell tumour (MST) and 
recommended that both lumps be surgically removed. R had surgery on 24 February to 
remove both masses, one of which was found to be cancerous.
Mr M says that he had no knowledge or suspicion that R had a cancerous condition when he 
took out his policy with C&G. He says hed had a similar level of cover with Rs previous 
insurers and if hed had any concerns about Rs lumps, hed have had these checked under 
his previous insurance. He says there wouldve been no point in changing insurers, and 
indeed a risk in doing so.
C&G declined Mr Ms claim for the treatment for R on the ground that his policy excludes 
cover for pre-existing conditions. The Insurance Product Information Document states:
What is not insured
Any claim of Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition.
The policy defines a pre-existing condition as:
..any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before the 
Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
C&G also says that when setting up his policy for R, which he did on-line, Mr M wouldve 
been taken through a section headed Assumptions. Within this section are a number of 
statements including:
Are you looking for insurance cover for a pre-existing condition? 
to which Mr M responded No. This statement appears in the Schedule to Mr Ms policy as 
confirmation of the answer he gave. This section also includes the following statement to 
which Mr M also confirmed his agreement:
'You accept that no cover will be provided for any illness or injury that is pre-existing or 
if it were to arise within the first 14 days from the policy start date or 5 days in the 
event of an accident'.
By a further term of the policy, C&G reserves the right to place any relevant exclusions if it is 
made aware of a pre-existing condition. The policy states:
General Exclusions
The following exclusions apply to the whole of this Policy. We will not pay claims for
any of the following reasons;
 If We are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these
Pre-Existing Conditions will not be covered and We reserve the right add a relevant
endorsement(s) to Your Policy in respect of these Pre-Existing Conditions.
C&G maintains that Rs lumps were noted to be present before the inception of the policy. 
She therefore displayed clinical signs of the condition for which she received treatment prior 
to the inception of the policy, although it was undiagnosed at that time. R therefore had a 
Pre-existing Condition before the Policy Start Date. It says that if it had been aware of this it 
wouldve applied an endorsement to Mr Ms policy as follows:
 Excludes cover on all claims Growths, Tumours, Cancers with effect from 8 January 
2022. 
As it considered that the condition being claimed for was a pre-existing condition and 
therefore didnt satisfy the terms and conditions of the policy, C&G retrospectively applied 
the aforementioned endorsement and declined payment for Rs veterinary treatment.
As he wasnt satisfied with C&Gs rejection of his claim, Mr M brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator initially expressed her view that C&G was entitled to rely on the 
exclusion for pre-existing conditions. Having considered further information from C&G, she 
issued a second view in which she upheld Mr Ms complaint on the ground that C&G hadnt 
acted fairly in applying the retrospective exclusion as Mr M had not made a 
misrepresentation in his policy application. Had he done so, then C&G wouldve had the right 
under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012 (CIDRA) to 
introduce such an exclusion.
C&G didnt agree with our investigators revised view and asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. I issued a provisional decision in which I didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. Mr M doesnt accept my provisional decision, and Ive considered his further 
comments, which Ive taken into account when issuing this, my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im maintaining my original decision and Im not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. 
In my view Mr M didnt make any misrepresentations to C&G when applying for his policy. 
C&G hasnt evidenced that Mr M was asked any questions about Rs health to which Mr M couldve given an incorrect or incomplete answer. He was only asked to confirm a number of 
assumptions including whether or not he wanted his insurance to cover pre-existing 
conditions, and he said he didnt. 
C&G agreed to insure R and issued its policy on this basis. So if Mr M subsequently made a 
claim for a pre-existing condition, it was fair and reasonable for C&G to reject the claim on 
the ground that the policy didnt cover any pre-existing conditions. 
But C&G does have to provide evidence of the existence of a pre-existing condition, in this 
case that R had an undiagnosed condition that had shown clinical signs or symptoms prior to 
the inception of the policy or within the following 14 days.
Mr M has said that Rs lumps had been present for a few months before he took R to the vet 
to have them checked. They were therefore present before the inception of the policy or 
within its first 14 days. In my view they were a clinical sign of an as yet undiagnosed 
condition, so Mr M wouldnt have known what the condition was. A lump can be innocuous, 
but it can also be a sign of a medical issue. It was because Mr M had learnt of this that he 
took R to the vet to have her lumps checked. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr M repeats that he had no knowledge or suspicion 
that R had a cancerous lump, but knowledge on his part of the clinical nature of the lump 
isnt relevant. According to the terms of the policy, what is relevant is whether the fatty lumps 
were a sign or symptom of a condition even if at the time there was no diagnosis of that 
condition. At least one of the lumps was a tumour, and this was present before the inception 
of the policy. 
Ive considered the application of CIDRA to this case as this was raised by our investigator 
and was the reason why she changed her view. In my view, CIDRA doesnt apply to this 
case. I dont consider that Mr M made a misrepresentation because he wasnt asked any 
questions about Rs health to which he gave an incorrect or inaccurate reply.
But although C&G therefore isnt entitled to any of the remedies provided by CIDRA where a 
qualifying misrepresentation has been made, one of which is that a retrospective exclusion 
or endorsement can be applied to the policy, I do consider that C&G can introduce a 
retrospective endorsement. It can rely on the policy term that Ive quoted above by which it 
can add an endorsement if it is made aware of any pre-existing condition at the time of a 
claim. This is a contractual right that C&G has within the policy, and Mr M had the 
opportunity to review the policy terms for 14 days after the policy was issued and cancel it if 
he wasnt happy with its terms.
Its also clear, and Mr M accepted when taking out the policy, that it doesnt cover pre-
existing conditions. If Mr M had wanted it to, he wouldve had to have answered Yes to the 
question Are you looking for insurance cover for a pre-existing condition? He would then 
have been transferred to questions about Rs health, and C&G wouldve made its decision 
on whether or not to insure R, and on what terms, on the basis of the information Mr M then 
provided.
So my final decision is that C&G hasnt acted unfairly towards Mr M in rejecting his claim on 
the ground that the treatment for which hes claiming was for a pre-existing condition and is 
excluded on the basis of the endorsement that C&G retrospectively added. I dont consider 
that C&G acted unfairly or unreasonably in adding such an endorsement. It did so in 
accordance with the terms of Mr Ms policy and it would have added it at policy inception had 
it known at that time that R had a lump that was cancerous.
.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman