DRN-2807521
The complaint
Ms H complains about Vanquis Bank Limited and their decision to approve her application 
for a credit card.
What happened
Ms H previously held a credit card account with Vanquis, which was defaulted in 2010. The 
outstanding debt was passed to a debt collection agency.
In early 2020, Ms H received a letter from Vanquis, offering her the chance to apply for 
another credit card account. Ms H submitted this application in February 2020, and it was 
approved with a £1,000 credit limit. 
Ms H managed her account with Vanquis well until her hours were reduced at work due to 
COVID-19. Vanquis applied a payment freeze to her account in October 2020, which lasted 
until February 2021. But Ms H wasnt happy with this, so she raised a complaint.
Ms H complained about Vanquis decision to approve her credit application. She thought 
Vanquis had approved it irresponsibility as she thought it was clear she was unable to afford 
the repayments. She didnt think Vanquis shouldve offered her the chance to apply for a 
new credit card, when the one she held with them previously defaulted. She thought her low 
credit score, and her outstanding debit, showed the account was unaffordable. So, she 
wanted the interest that had been added to be removed, and the balance reduced by 60% 
so she could pay the card off in full.
Vanquis didnt agree. They thought theyd made reasonable checks before approving Ms Hs 
application. They explained theyd considered Ms Hs income against her monthly outgoings 
and her existing debt that showed on her credit file. And from this, they though the £1,000 
credit limit was modest and affordable. They recognised Ms H had defaulted on account in 
the year prior to the application, but they explained they look to offer credit to those with 
lower credit scores to help customers rebuild them. So, they didnt think this default meant 
they automatically shouldve declined the application. And they explained theyd monitored 
Ms Hs use of the card and didnt provide a credit limit increase because of this. So, they 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong. Ms H remained unhappy with this response, so 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought Vanquis has 
completed checks that were proportionate to the limit Ms H was offered before approving the 
application. And he thought Vanquis decision to lend was fair and reasonable, based on the 
information they had available to them. He recognised Ms H had defaulted on a previous 
account with Vanquis but didnt think this meant Vanquis shouldnt have approved the new 
application as it was more than 10 years ago, and customers financial situations can 
change. He also didnt think the recent default meant Vanquis shouldve automatically 
declined the application. He recognised Ms H found herself in financial difficulty, especially 
since shed been made redundant, but he didnt think this was the fault of Vanquis. So, he 
didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Ms H didnt agree. She explained she was in a constant cycle of debt and because of this, 
her credit rating was low. She thought Vanquis shouldve considered this. And she felt if they 
had, they wouldnt have approved her credit application. She felt Vanquis decision had left 
her in greater debt and she maintained her view that this was irresponsible. So, she wanted 
to the interest to be waived and the outstanding balance reduced so she could pay the 
account in full and close it. As Ms H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Ms H. I recognise Ms H finds 
herself in financial difficulty and has been significantly impacted by COVID-19. Her hours 
were reduced initially, before being made redundant, and I can appreciate the worry and 
upset this wouldve caused. And I want to reassure Ms H Ive taken this seriously and 
considered it at length. Without a stable income, I can understand why Ms H has been 
unable to meet her minimum monthly payment for her Vanquis credit card. And as this was 
the last form of credit she received, I can understand why she feels this was provided 
irresponsibly considering the difficulties shes faced trying to maintain payments. 
But for me to say Vanquis approved Ms Hs application irresponsibly, and should take action 
to address this, Id need to see one of two things. First, Id need to be satisfied the checks 
Vanquis completed werent proportionate to the credit limit Ms H was provided. And if I think 
they were proportionate, Id need to be satisfied Vanquis failed to consider the information 
these checks provided fairly. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about whether the checks Vanquis made were proportionate. Ive seen 
Vanquis took into consideration Ms Hs monthly income, her living costs, her residential 
status and her recent credit history. And after doing so, they approved Ms Hs application 
with a credit limit of £1,000. I think these checks were proportionate to the limit they 
provided, as the limit was less than a months income for Ms H. The limit itself was relatively 
modest and I wouldnt have expected them to make any further checks. Id only expect them 
to ask for further information if they were looking to provide a much larger credit limit in 
comparison to Ms Hs monthly income. And this wasnt the case.
But as well as the checks being proportionate, I also need to consider whether Vanquis 
assessed the information these checks provided fairly. Im aware Ms H doesnt think Vanquis 
did, as her credit rating was low, and she was in a cycle of debt at the time the application 
was approved.
Ive seen the application Ms H submitted to Vanquis. In this, she declared her monthly 
income as £1,600 a month, working on a part time basis. She declared her housing costs to 
be £150 a month, as she was living with her parents. And she declared her total living costs 
to be £250. Ive seen despite this, Vanquis calculated Ms Hs living costs to be £438.29, and 
they based their approval on the higher figure. Based on these figures, from the information 
Ms H provided, she was left with a disposable income of over £900 a month. So, I think this 
suggested the credit limit of £1,000 was affordable as the minimum monthly payment would 
only be a percentage of the total outstanding balance.But Im aware Ms H feels she was in a cycle of debt and her credit file shouldve shown this. 
Ive seen Ms Hs credit file, which does show she had defaulted on accounts in the past. And 
that she had defaulted on one account in the previous year. But Ive seen the total value of 
this default to be £131. And Ive seen Ms H had a total of £100 outstanding credit alongside 
this default. As it had been seven months since Ms H had last defaulted on an account, I 
think this showed to Vanquis that in the more recent months prior to the application, Ms H 
was able to manage her accounts well. And that her total outstanding credit was very low. 
So, I dont think there was any information available to Vanquis that suggest they should 
automatically decline Ms Hs application.
Its important to note that Vanquis purposefully offer credit to those with lower credit ratings. 
The purpose of this is to allow those who wouldnt usually be able to access credit the 
opportunity to do so, so they can improve their credit rating. Ive listened to the application 
call Ms H held with Vanquis, where she explained this was exactly her intention. To be able 
to do this, Vanquis take into account negative credit information and will make allowances 
for some of it, if they are satisfied the limit they provide should be affordable. Based on the 
information Ive seen, I dont think there was anything to suggest that the account or the 
credit limit was unaffordable to Ms H at the time it was approved. So, I dont think Vanquis 
acted unfairly or irresponsibly when approving Ms Hs application. And because of this, I 
dont think they need to do anything more.
Thats not to say I dont recognise the difficulty Ms H now finds herself in. Its clear shes 
been negatively impacted by COVID-19 and her income has been affected by this. This has 
resulted in Ms H finding herself in financial difficulty. Id expect Vanquis to act positively and 
sympathetically to the situation Ms H finds herself in. Ive seen they initially offered a 
payment freeze up until February 2021. If Ms Hs circumstances havent changed, Id expect 
Vanquis to explore and explain the options available to Ms H in an attempt to help alleviate 
her financial situation where possible.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint about Vanquis Bank 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman