DRN-4096862
The complaint
Miss A complains Avantia Insurance Limited mis-sold her a contents insurance policy.  
All references to Avantia also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Avantia accepted the policy had been mis-sold, but for completeness Ive explained 
why I think it has below.
Ive looked at the journey Miss A would have gone through when taking out the 
policy. The sales page provides three options to select from, a buildings and contents 
policy, a buildings only policy or a contents only policy. A consumer can select which 
product they want to take, but it provides no specific details at this point of the cover, 
or what isnt covered.
In the journey, there is an asterisk next to the sentence what would you like your 
insurance to cover. It doesnt direct the consumer to read it before proceeding, but it 
does provide some definition of what is covered including ...furnishing, rugs, 
televisions etc... 
No specific definition is given for furnishings. But in general, the definition of 
furnishings includes carpets. I also consider carpets are usually included in most 
contents policies, and Im not persuaded it would be reasonable for a consumer to 
conclude carpets are not covered from the wording included here. And as it is 
unusual, I think this needed to be significantly pointed out  and Im not persuaded it 
was.
Ive also considered the screenshot of the page Avantia says Miss A would have 
needed to value her contents. But as our investigator has said, this shows a list of 
items that would typically be included and excluded. But offers no further 
clarification and I dont this is reasonable enough to lead a consumer to be aware the 
carpets are not covered. 
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Miss A hired a skip at her own cost in order to store the damaged carpet, in case it 
was needed to validate a claim once the dispute was resolved. The carpet has since 
been disposed of, as advised by our investigator, but as this cost has been incurred 
due to the claim being declined, these costs should be met. I believe Avantia already 
has a copy of the invoice for this.
Avantia should also pay Miss A 8% simple interest on this amount, from the date of 
the invoice to the date it makes payment.
As due to Avantias error, Miss A has been denied the opportunity of making an 
otherwise valid claim under an Insurance policy. I think Avantia should pay the 
equivalent cost to Miss A for replacing the carpet. 
Miss A provided a quote for the cost of replacing the carpet. However, due to the 
passage of time thats passed since it was provided, a new updated quote from the 
proposed repairer may be required. So Avantia should allow Miss A to do so and 
meet any increased costs.
Avantia should pay Miss A £100 compensation. I think considering everything 
available to me and what Miss A has told our service about her mental health 
condition, this fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience its actions have 
caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss As complaint.
To put things right I direct Avantia Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman