DRN-2891199
The complaint
Mr K is a sole trader. He complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly declined his application for 
a business account, which meant he was unable to apply to the bank for a Bounce Back 
Loan.
What happened
Mr K was an existing personal customer of Halifax. He was looking to apply for a Bounce 
Back Loan in June 2020, but as Halifax didnt offer business banking services he was 
redirected to Lloyds (with both banks forming part of the Lloyds Banking Group). 
As Mr K didnt hold a business account with Lloyds, the bank required him to open one 
before it would consider a Bounce Back Loan application from him. So Mr K applied, but 
Lloyds declined his request. It said that it had specific criteria in place for new accounts at 
the time and Mr Ks application hadnt met these.
Mr K complained, but Lloyds maintained its decision. So he referred the matter to us. He 
said he met all the banks published eligibility criteria and was entitled to a Bounce Back 
Loan. 
One of our investigators reviewed the matter but didnt think Lloyds had done anything 
wrong. She said, in summary, that:
Lloyds had been entitled to require Mr K to apply for a business account before 
considering a request for a Bounce Back Loan. This process allowed the bank to 
perform the checks that it was required to undertake.
Lloyds had declined Mr Ks account application as it couldnt evidence sufficient 
business activity, particularly turnover, going through his Halifax personal account  
which in turn meant it could verify his eligibility for a Bounce Back Loan. Mr K used a 
separate account with a different provider altogether as his main business account  
so that bank ought reasonably to have been his first port of call for a Bounce Back 
Loan.
The banks decision had been made in line with its criteria and, having looked at the 
information that Lloyds reviewed when assessing Mr Ks application, she thought it 
had been reasonable.
Mr K still didnt think that Lloyds decision was fair. He said that he used his Halifax account 
for business purposes and this was his primary account for payments and deposits. While 
his business income was received into another account elsewhere, this was then transferred 
into the Halifax account. And he said all this was borne out within invoices and account 
statements. 
As Mr K didnt accept our investigators view, his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why. 
Under the way the Bounce Back Loan Scheme operated, lenders had some discretion as to 
how they accepted applications. While it wasnt a requirement of the Scheme that applicants 
have, or enter into, a business relationship with a lender, it was up to each lender to decide 
whether or not it was willing to lend to those without one. So Lloyds was entitled to require 
that applicants have an account with the bank before it would consider a Bounce Back Loan 
application from them.
Lloyds was accepting applications from existing personal customers whod been running 
their business through accounts with banks within the Lloyds Banking Group, but required 
them to open an account first. The account-opening process allowed Lloyds to complete the 
various checks expected of it under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme including Know Your 
Customer, fraud and anti-money laundering checks  and in line with its broader legal and 
regulatory responsibilities.
Lloyds has explained that as part of the specific account-opening criteria it had in place at 
the time, it needed to see that the activity within the applicants existing personal account 
evidenced their eligibility for a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules. Given all 
Ive said above about the discretion for lenders to decide the basis on which they were 
willing to lend and the requirement to conduct certain checks, I think this was reasonable. 
Ive seen that Lloyds treated Mr K application in line with its policy. He didnt have an existing 
relationship with Lloyds, so he needed to open an account first. 
Mr Ks account application was then considered in line with the banks criteria as applied at 
the time. And having reviewed the information that it considered, I think its decision to 
decline the application was reasonable. I can see that Mr K used his Halifax account for 
some business-related transactions. But, as Mr K has acknowledged, he primarily received 
business income into a separate account held elsewhere. That is evident from the account 
statements. 
Lloyds was therefore unable to verify the turnover figure that Mr K declared from activity 
running through the Halifax activity. And so it couldnt verify Mr Ks eligibility under the 
Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules, which included requirements of a minimum turnover 
amount and that loans were no more than 25% of an applicants turnover.
I understand why Mr K is frustrated by this. Hes explained that although the business 
income is received into a separate account, it is ultimately transferred into the Halifax 
account anyway. But as these payments simply showed as personal transfers into his 
account or as cash deposits, I think it was reasonable for the bank to consider this 
insufficient evidence of his businesss turnover.
I appreciate Lloyds decision left Mr K in a difficult position and I understand his strength of 
feeling over the issue. But taking all of the above into account, I dont think the bank did 
anything wrong in how it handled his application for a new account  so Im not requiring it to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman