DRN-4031972
The complaint
Mr S and Ms G complain about how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with a claim against 
their travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr S and Ms G have an annual, multi-trip travel insurance 
policy underwritten by Great Lakes. The policy started on 23 April 2022. 
Mr S and Ms G booked a trip with departure and return dates of 16 May 2022 and        
30 May 2022 respectively. On 17 May 2022, Ms G fell in the hotel and broke her leg and 
ankle. She went to hospital. Great Lakes said initially that surgery could wait until Ms G 
returned to the UK, so Mr S and Ms G returned to their hotel. 
On 18 May 2022, Great lakes said that Ms G required surgery at her destination, but     
Mr S and Ms G werent told about that until late on 19 May 2022. I understand that Ms G 
had surgery on 20 May 2022. Ms G asked her son in the UK, Mr G, to assist with dealing 
with Great Lakes. 
Ms G returned to the hotel room on 22 May 2022. On 23 May 2022, Great Lakes sent  
Mr S information about the repatriation process. On 26 May 2022, Ms G was declared fit 
to fly. Mr S and Ms G returned on their planned flight. Great Lakes arranged a business 
class seat for Ms G.     
Essentially, Mr S and Ms G say that they didnt receive the service they expected from  
Great Lakes, which caused them additional stress and trauma. They want compensation 
for the cost of their holiday and for their distress and inconvenience. 
Great Lakes accepted that its service had fallen below its normal standards and offered 
Mr S and Ms G compensation of £200. Mr S and Ms G didnt accept that and pursued 
their complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that Great Lakes should 
pay additional compensation of £200, so £400 in total. 
Great Lakes agreed with the investigator, but Mr S and Ms G didnt. They said that 
compensation of £400 doesnt reflect their stress caused by Great Lakes mishandling of 
their claim. Mr S and Ms G said that if Great Lakes had acted fairly they could have at 
least relaxed for the remainder of their holiday knowing about their arrangements for 
getting home. They said that the whole trip was a write off due to Great Lakes lack of 
communication and the stress and anxiety this caused. Mr S and Ms G say that they 
wanted to return home as soon as possible but that wasnt possible due to Great Lakes 
delays. 
Mr S and Ms G asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me 
to decide. 
My provisional decision
On 28 February 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I said that 
I intended to uphold the complaint but with a different outcome than had been suggested 
before. I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I intend to uphold    
Mr S and Ms Gs complaint because I dont think that Great Lakes treated them fairly or 
reasonably. I say that because:   
Its common ground that Great Lakes didnt handle Mr S and Ms Gs claim well. It 
initially said that surgery could wait until Ms G returned home and delayed 
authorising surgery. Great Lakes contact notes refer to immense delay in dealing 
with the case. 
Subsequently, Great Lakes gave Mr S inaccurate information about what to expect 
in relation to repatriation, which raised their expectations. And it didnt keep            
Mr S and Ms G informed about what assistance they would have on their return 
journey. The tone of Mr S e-mails to Great Lakes were increasingly desperate as 
time went on. 
This was already a very stressful time and Great Lakes actions increased             
Mr S and Ms Gs distress and inconvenience. They have explained that Mr S is 
disabled, and Ms G is his full time carer. So, events were particularly difficult for 
them to deal with without the support they could have reasonably expected from 
Great Lakes. 
Considering everything, I think that total compensation of £600 in relation to         
Mr S and Ms Gs distress and inconvenience arising from Great Lakes poor 
service in dealing with the claim for emergency medical assistance and repatriation  
is fair and reasonable in this case. In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the 
nature, extent and duration of the additional distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr S and Ms G at an already stressful time. 
But thats not the end of the matter. Mr S and Ms Gs policy covers curtailment of a 
trip. It says that Great Lakes will pay up to £5,000 for non-refundable deposits and 
amounts paid for travel, accommodation, and excursions which Mr S and Ms G 
dont use because of their inability to complete the trip due to injury. The policy 
defines Cut short/Cutting short as the immediate direct early return from the trip 
to the home country or being a hospital in-patient outside the home country for 
more than 48 hours. 
Mr S and Ms G didnt return home early from their trip; they returned home on the 
flight they originally planned. I understand that Ms G was in hospital at her 
destination for more than 48 hours. But I think that in the particular circumstances 
here, Mr S and Ms Gs trip was effectively curtailed from the date Ms G was 
injured, so from 17 May 2022. Ill explain why.
Ms G says that when she returned to their hotel room after Great Lakes declined 
emergency surgery, she was confined to their room as she couldnt manage the 
stairs with a broken ankle and leg. Ms G is Mr S carer and whilst he went to eat his meals alone and took food back to the hotel room for Ms G, that was difficult due to 
his disability. 
When Ms G returned to the hotel after surgery she and Mr S were worried about 
their return home and their stress and anxiety continued. Whilst Mr S and Ms Gs 
policy doesnt cover loss of enjoyment, in all the circumstances here, I think that  
Mr S and Ms Gs trip was effectively curtailed on the date of Ms Gs injury, so from 
17 May 2022. Its fair and reasonable in this case for Great Lakes to deal with a 
claim under the curtailment provisions.  
Mr S and Ms G have also referred to loss, distress and inconvenience suffered by 
Ms Gs son, Mr G, who assisted them in dealing with Great Lakes. Mr G isnt 
named on the policy, so I cant direct Great Lakes to pay him compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S and Ms G agreed with my provisional decision and said that they had nothing further 
to add. Great Lakes didnt provide a response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the matter again. I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I set out in 
my provisional decision. So, for the reasons Ive explained, I think that Great Lakes provided 
Mr S and Ms G with poor service and that it should pay compensation of £600 in relation to 
their distress and inconvenience caused by the poor service. In addition, Mr S and Ms Gs 
trip was effectively curtailed from 17 May 2022, so Great Lakes should deal with their claim 
under the curtailment provisions. Great Lakes should also pay interest on any sum paid to                  
Mr S and Ms G as a result of their claim for curtailment. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I now direct Great Lakes to:
pay Mr S and Ms G compensation of £600 in relation to their distress and 
inconvenience caused by the poor service, 
deal with their claim for curtailment, in accordance with the policy terms and 
conditions, taking into account my findings about effective curtailment and 
pay interest on any sum paid to Mr S and Ms G as a result of their claim for 
curtailment at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the date of the claim to the date of 
payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE should now take 
the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 Louise Povey
Ombudsman