DRN-1514576
The complaint
Ms G and Mr K are unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance 
renewal for their buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Ms G and Mr K received a renewal quote from Triton to renew their buildings and contents 
insurance policy in July 2019. To ensure their policy remained in force, Ms G and Mr K paid 
the full premium before the renewal date. The amount paid was £259.25.
In September 2019 Ms G and Mr K received a letter from the insurers. The letter explained 
to them that the insurers had stopped doing business with Triton in January 2019 and their 
policy wasnt in force. The letter told Ms G and Mr K to get in touch with Triton. Ms G tried to 
do this, and Ms G and Mr K also took out alternative insurance. Ms G and Mr K were 
concerned their money had been taken fraudulently and they wanted it refunded.
They didnt hear anything from Triton, and they never received their money back. So, they 
complained to Triton. Triton never responded to Ms G and Mr K, so they brought their 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Ms G and Mr K. She asked Triton to refund the premium of 
£259.25, pay interest on that amount and pay Ms G and Mr K £100 compensation for the 
upset the matter had caused them.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Ms G and Mr K have provided. I find 
their information plausible and persuasive.
Ms G and Mr K paid Triton before their policy renewed to ensure their policy remained 
active. And, once they were aware they didnt have any insurance cover in force, they made 
sure they sought cover immediately.
Ms G and Mr Ks original insurers cancelled their agreement with Triton in January 2019. 
Unfortunately, Triton havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide  
Ms G and Mr K with an explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton 
shouldnt have offered Ms G and Mr K any insurance cover with the original insurer. And 
they should have refunded the money Ms G and Mr K paid to them.Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the premium paid by Ms G and Mr K. Ms G 
has also confirmed that she tried to speak to Triton several times to get their money back, 
and she wasnt able to get through to anyone. None of her calls were returned. Because of 
this upset, its also reasonable for Triton to pay Ms G and Mr K £100 compensation. I think 
this amount fairly recognises the inconvenience and upset caused in this case
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Ms G and Mr K their premium of £259.25;
Pay interest at eight per cent simple on the amount due from the date Ms G and Mr K 
paid for their insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Ms G and Mr K H £100 compensation for the upset theyve been caused.
 
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Ms G and Mr K how much has been taken off. 
Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Ms G and Mr K a tax deduction certificate if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman