DRN-2296468
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the assistance he received from U K Insurance Limited (UKI) on his 
travel insurance policy whilst abroad and the way it handled his claim. 
All references to UKI include its claims handlers.
What happened
Towards the end of November 2019, whilst undertaking a sporting activity abroad, Mr K 
dislocated his shoulder and required urgent medical attention. 
He contacted UKI in early December 2019 for assistance repatriating him back to the UK, 
once he was medically fit to fly. Mr K ended up flying back to the UK towards the end of 
December 2019.
Mr K is very unhappy with the assistance provided by UKI and the way in which it handled 
his subsequent claim. He raised a number of concerns directly with UKI. 
UKI responded by way of a final response letter dated 20 February 2020, upholding most of 
his concerns including that it:
didnt offer to cover the cost of someone travelling from the UK to be with Mr K. It 
said based on the medical information on file, its medical team advised that whether 
Mr K needed someone to accompany him on the return journey to the UK depended 
on how he was managing.  UKI accepted that it didnt do enough to discuss this with 
Mr K to enable it to decide whether he should have someone with him on his return 
flight.
wasnt proactive in trying to obtain Mr Ks passport details so that he could be booked 
onto his preferred flight back to the UK. By the time his passport details had been 
received, that flight had become fully booked. 
shouldnt have confirmed that a particular flight back to the UK was on hold, giving 
the impression that it would be able to book this flight for Mr K.
continued to send Mr K emails even after he told UKI on 16 December 2019 that he 
hadnt been able to receive UKIs emails due to the system it was using. This 
included emails dated 20 and 23 December 2019.
didnt handle certain calls appropriately - including a call dated 23 December 2019 
and the tone of voice adopted by its representatives was, on occasion, unacceptable. 
Mr K was also promised a call back from UKIs representative in half an hour but that 
didnt happen.
didnt treat Mr K with empathy during certain calls. 
shouldve offered to assist booking the accommodation Mr K needed for 
23 December 2019 but it didnt. 
it didnt call Mr K back on 31 January 2020, as promised. 
caused unacceptable delays. Mr K claims claim couldve been progressed more 
quickly - including documents which were uploaded to his file on 6 January 2020 
werent assessed within a reasonable timeframe. And Mr K shouldnt have been told 
on 3 February 2020 that because the claims handler was away until 6 February his 
claim couldnt be progressed. UKI accepted that his claim couldve and shouldve 
been progressed in the claims handlers absence. 
UKI also accepted that its representative came across as defensive during a call which took 
place in early 2020, during which Mr K was also incorrectly told that a payment had been 
made to him when it hadnt. UKIs representative then failed to apologise when she noticed 
her error. And although she said a more senior colleague would call Mr K to discuss his 
concerns that didnt happen.
UKI partially upheld the following complaints:
Mr K was concerned about the time of a particular flight UKI had proposed back to 
the UKI, he was also unhappy that it was an indirect flight and it involved a four-hour 
stopover in a city that he didnt consider to be safe. UKI said the medical evidence 
obtained didnt indicate Mr K required a direct flight back to the UK and it didnt 
consider the city where he was due to stop-over to be unsafe. However, it accepted 
that as it hadnt established whether Mr K required someone to fly out from the UK to 
accompany him home, this mightve affected the suitability of an indirect flight. In any 
event, UKI says that a direct flight did become available which UKI was able to book 
Mr K onto and therefore he didnt need to obtain any further medical evidence 
advising on the need for a direct flight. 
Mr K was unhappy that he was only told about details of a flight back to the UK late 
at night on 22 December 2019, which was the night before the morning it was due to 
depart. He says he felt pressured to take this flight as UKIs representative would not 
offer an alternative. Due to Mr Ks shoulder injury and an injury to his wrist on the 
other arm, he explained hed find it difficult to pack for himself.  UKI accept that he 
wasnt given enough time to prepare for this flight home. And although he was initially 
told there was no alternative but to take this flight, a more senior colleague agreed to 
look into alternative flights shortly thereafter. So, Mr K didnt need to take this flight.  
However, UKI accept that it was inappropriate for UKIs representative to suggest in 
the call dated 22 December 2019 that Mr K pack with the other hand given that the 
medical report it had, reflecting the injuries to his left and right arms.   
UKI didnt accept that it:
hadnt paid Mr K what he was owed in respect of his claim for lost baggage;
had made decisions regarding Mr Ks repatriation back to UK based on financial 
concerns rather than what was best for him;
 was inappropriate for it to direct Mr K to a website to access his claim. And asking 
him to read a document providing general information about the information it 
required from policyholders to support a claim. It says this is the correct and usual 
process for the claims department.
UKI offered Mr K £750 as compensation to reflect the impact its wrongdoings had on him.
At this stage, the claim was ongoing and still being considered. Mr K raised further concerns 
about the way his claim was being handled including that he was unhappy that:a payment to do with his medical claim wasnt authorised within five days, as 
promised, and he hadnt been updated about this.
the length of time he had to wait when he called the claims department.
he didnt receive a call back from a manager in the claims department, as requested.
By way of a letter dated early March 2020 UKI apologised for the overall poor service he 
received, and it accepted that there had been many failings. In recognition of the way hed 
been treated, and to reflect the upset caused, UKI credited his account with a further 
payment of £225. 
Mr K raised further concerns because hed received three generic letters from UKI regarding 
information that it still needed to support his claim even though hed been told by UKIs 
representative on 5 March 2020 that proof of cash withdrawals was sufficient, and hed 
uploaded this the same day. However, he was unhappy that he was unable to speak with the 
same representative since and his messages had gone unanswered. He was upset and 
frustrated that UKI hadnt learnt from its past mistakes 
In mid-April 2020, UKI offered to pay an additional £75 for its further service failings. 
Mr K is also unhappy that UKI didnt let him know that the policy can cover physiotherapy 
treatment after returning to the UK and provided a total permanent disability benefit, despite 
asking on several occasions what hes able to claim for under the policy. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint. He said that:
the total amount of compensation UKI had paid him for the distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced as a result of its wrongdoings (totalling £1,050) was 
fair and reasonable. 
UKI hadnt unfairly calculated the baggage claim Mr K had made under the policy 
and he didnt think UKI had done anything wrong with regards to the physiotherapy 
and total permanent disability benefits the policy provided for. 
Mr K disagreed. So, his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry guidelines say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly. Ive set out in detail the concerns raised by Mr K that UKI has already upheld relating to 
aspects of the service he received whilst still abroad and before he was repatriated home - 
and when managing his claim for amounts being claimed under the policy (including the 
delays which UKI accept have occurred). 
I can understand why Mr K feels like hes been placed in a continuous loop of 
misinformation, as he describes it. And I can see that hes very upset and frustrated by this. 
I can also understand why Mr K feels like UKI hasnt learned from the errors it acknowledged 
in its letter dated 20 February 2020 which it paid compensation for. It accepts it continued to 
make similar errors when managing his claim and Im persuaded that this wouldve only 
exacerbated the distress and frustration he experienced.
However, all in all, Im satisfied that the total amount of compensation UKI has paid him to 
recognise the impact it had on him - in the sum of £1,050 - is fair and reasonable. Im 
persuaded it fairly reflects the substantial and unnecessary distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced as a result of the poor service received from UKI - and what it got wrong over a 
number of months. 
Mr Ks baggage claim:
The policy says UKI will cover:
 you if your baggage is lost, stolen or accidentally damaged during your trip.
The most we will pay for each insured person is £2,500. This is reduced to:
 £400 for any one item (including items that form part of a pair or set of items).
 £1,000 in total for valuable items.
 It goes on to say that UKI has the option to either:
pay the cost of repairing or replacing the item; or make a cash payment to you.
No payment will be more than the original purchase price you paid for the item... 
Included in definition of valuable items are:
audio, visual and television equipment;
computers, gaming consoles, electronic book readers, satellite navigation  
equipment, mobile phones and accessories;
 jewellery, watches, items made of or containing gold, silver, precious metals or 
precious or semi-precious stones. 
Im satisfied UKI has acted fairly and reasonably by treating certain items Mr K claimed for 
(earphones, laptop, electronic tablet and watch) as valuable items under the
policy definition above. And as such, Im satisfied that it has fairly applied the total limit of 
£1,000 to these lost items in line with the policy terms  even though, together, they cost 
more than this.
Im also satisfied that Mr Ks sunglasses and backpack cost less than £400 each and UKI 
has fairly said it would reimburse him £384.85 for those two items in total, which I 
understand reflects the original purchase price Mr K paid for these two items taking into 
account the exchange rate used by UKI which Mr K hasnt disputed. Im satisfied that its fair, and in line with the policy terms, that UKI has used the price Mr K paid for the items rather 
than the replacement cost.
Although, Mr K was initially told by UKI that he would receive around £113 more than this, I 
dont think that figure was correct. Whilst I accept that Mr K is disappointed by initially being 
given the wrong figure  based on replacement costs - Im satisfied that any distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as result wouldve been comparatively minor and I think the 
overall compensation of £1,050 offered to him by UKI is sufficient to fairly compensate him 
for this error too. 
Physiotherapy treatment:
The policy says UKI:
will pay for necessary further physiotherapy treatment on your return to your home
area if we pay a claim under Emergency Medical Costs outside your home area that
results in your bodily injury.
And the most it will pay for each insured person for physiotherapy is £350.
Mr K isnt happy that UKI didnt tell him about this benefit. However, Im not persuaded that 
UKI was under an obligation to proactively tell him about this benefit during the claims 
process unless he specifically asked about it. Ive seen a call note from UKI dated 20 
February 2020 which reflects that when he did enquire about physiotherapy, UKI told him 
that if his GP advised that physiotherapy was needed and they provided a letter confirming 
this was the case, it would consider covering the cost of physiotherapy up to the £350 policy 
limit. Im satisfied that was fair and reasonable.
Total permanent disability benefit:
The policy says UKI:
will cover you if you are accidentally injured on your trip and this solely and 
independently results in yourtotal permanent disability 
Total permanent disability is defined as:
a total and permanent disability that prevents you from doing any work of any kind 
for 52 consecutive weeks.
The policy also confirms that:
-  the most UKI will pay for each insured person for total permanent disability benefit is 
£100.000; and 
- the total permanent disability must occur within one year of the date the insured 
person was accidentally injured. 
Again, Im not persuaded that UKI was under an obligation to specifically tell him about this 
benefit during the claims process considering he wasnt making a claim for this benefit at the 
time. Particularly as 52 weeks hadnt passed since the date he was accidently injured whilst 
abroad when he was going through the claims process, in early 2020. So, I dont think UKI 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
However, if Mr K considers himself to meet the policy definition of total permanent disability, 
he should refer that claim to UKI to be assessed in the first instance.Unused travel and accommodation expenses:
The policy says additional travel and accommodation expenses are covered if:
-needed to return you to your home area on the advice of our medical advisor;
-you have to pay to get home following emergency medical treatment and where you 
cannot use your return ticket
UKI covered the cost of his return flight back to the UK towards the end of December 2019 
and the cost of the accommodation he needed before he was repatriated home. So, I dont 
think UKI unfairly declined to reimburse Mr K for the amounts he pre-paid for travel and 
certain accommodation which he couldnt use because of the accident that occurred at the 
end of November 2019. Otherwise, he would be put in a better financial position than he 
otherwise wouldve been which I dont think is fair and reasonable.
Other issues:
From Mr Ks perspective, I can understand why he may have felt that UKI was putting costs 
above his welfare when looking to repatriate him home towards the end of December 2019 
and the flight it proposed he take back to the UK on 23 December 2019. However, after 
speaking with a more senior colleague of UKI, he was told that other flights would be 
considered and, ultimately, UKI was able to arrange a direct flight for him.
I also know that Mr K was upset about initially being directed to a website by UKI to access 
his claim. And being referred to a standard document providing general information about 
the type of evidence it required from policyholders to support a claim. UKI says that this is 
its usual process. So, although Mr K may have been discussing his claim with UKI and 
which documents it required, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable to initially direct him 
to the generic information.
Summary:
All in all, whilst UKI accept that it did many things wrong when assisting Mr K whilst abroad 
with a view to repatriating him to the UK  and the how it handled his subsequent claim  Im 
satisfied that it has fairly and reasonably compensated him for this. And based on the 
complaint that Ive been asked to decide, Im not persuaded that UKI has to do anything 
more to put things right. 
I know Mr K will be very disappointed with my decision, but I hope it will help him to know 
that his complaint has been reviewed by someone who is impartial and independent.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman