DRN-2086534
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the service that Aviva Insurance Limited (trading as 
Quotemehappy.com) provided after a non-fault accident. Mr K is also unhappy with the 
repairs carried out on the vehicle. 
What happened
Mr K had a non-fault accident in February 2019. Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) accepted 
the claim and arranged for the repairs through their own approved repairer. Mr K said that 
when the vehicle was returned it had a faulty horn. He said that the horn worked before the 
accident. 
Mr K e-mailed Aviva a few times but didnt get a reply for several weeks. In the end Mr K got 
through to Aviva by phone and it agreed his car could go back to the approved garage for 
the horn to be looked at again. While Mr K waited, the garage tried to fix the problem. They 
changed the fuse for the horn twice but that didnt help. The garage told Mr K that the issue 
with the horn wasnt related to the accident. 
Days later, Mr K noticed that the front wipers werent working. The horn still wasnt working. 
The garage agreed to collect Mr Ks car and take it to the manufacturers dealer to get them 
to independently confirm whether the issues were caused by the accident or not. Aviva 
arranged for Mr K to have a courtesy car whilst his car was at the dealer. If the fault was 
related to the accident, or if it was caused by its own negligence, it would be covered under 
the policy. Mr K said that the garage employee who collected the car was rude and that she 
damaged his tyre when moving his car. It took several days for the additional repairs to be 
carried out and although the wipers were fixed, the horn wasnt. The manufacturers dealer 
said the issue wasnt accident related. Therefore, Aviva didnt agree to fix the problem with 
the horn. 
Mr K took the car for a full service and the horn was fixed. Mr K asked Aviva to pay him back 
for the service, as well as the cost of insurance on the courtesy car, but it didnt agree with 
his request in full. In response to his complaint it offered £200. This was to cover the stress 
and inconvenience he had gone through in getting the original repairs carried out and the 
cost of the insurance on the courtesy car. It didnt agree to pay for the service as it said that 
the service was part of the normal cost of running a vehicle and not related to the accident. 
Mr K refused this.
Our investigator didnt recommend Aviva cover the cost of the horn repair or service. She felt 
its decision that the horn problem wasnt caused by the accident was fair. She did feel Mr K 
couldve received better service. But she said the £200 Aviva had already offered was 
enough to make up for that. Mr K didnt accept that. So the complaint has come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K had an accident that wasnt his fault. He has had to take a lot of time and effort to get 
his car repaired to the standards he expected. Mr K didnt always receive a polite and timely 
service from everyone involved in the repairs to his car. 
However, the terms and conditions on Mr Ks insurance policy are clear. Id only expect 
Aviva to pay for repairs that are related to the accident  or that it has caused by its own 
negligence. Although Mr K thinks that the horn worked before the accident, Aviva has the 
right to rely on information provided by the dealer, who confirmed that the fault with the horn 
wasnt related to the accident. Based on what Ive seen, including what the dealer says, I 
think its most likely the horn didnt become faulty because of the accident. So I think its fair 
and reasonable that Aviva wouldnt repair the horn.
I can understand that this process has been stressful and time-consuming for Mr K. 
However, Aviva has said sorry for its poor service and offered compensation of £200. I think 
£200 is fair and reasonable given how Mr K was treated. I know Mr K may be disappointed 
this cant be increased so it covers the cost of his service as well as the cost of the insurance 
on the courtesy car. But the service wasnt related to the accident or caused by negligence. 
So I think its fair that the service isnt covered. Aviva is also waiting to hear from Mr K about 
the tyre damage he said was caused during the repairs.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
I understand Aviva has offered Mr K £200. I conclude thats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances so my final decision is that Aviva should pay Mr K £200 if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Joanne Occleshaw
Ombudsman