DRN-4284674
The complaint
Mr J complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) didnt provide him 
with a second companion voucher even though it said he would receive one. 
What happened
Mr J opened an AMEX account on which he can receive a companion voucher if he spends 
a certain amount on his card.
Mr J says that he was issued a voucher in July 2022 and had first thought that customers 
could get one voucher a year and his year would run from March to March. But he was told 
on phone calls that he could get a second voucher if he kept spending on his card. 
He says his wife had planned to get a separate AMEX account and they would have spent 
the required amount on that to get a second voucher but based on the advice he received 
his wife didnt get her own account and they continued to spend on Mr Js card. Mr J says he 
was told on more than one occasion that the second voucher had been issued and because 
of this he took annual leave. 
AMEX issued a final response in March 2023. It said that when Mr J called in February 2023, 
he should have been told he had met the spend limit for the companion voucher to be issued 
and that this had been issued in July 2022 instead of being told he was still entitled to 
receive a voucher. 
It said that the terms and conditions say a customer would only get one companion voucher 
for each year of card membership. AMEX offered Mr J £75 as an apology for the wrong 
information he received on the calls in February. This offer was then increased to £200.
Mr J wasnt satisfied with AMEXs response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator listened to the calls between Mr J and AMEX that took place in February 
2023. She said that Mr J was told several times he would receive a second companion 
voucher in March 2023 as he had spent over the required amount. 
But she also said Mr J had received a companion voucher in July 2022 and that the account 
terms and conditions say only one companion voucher could be earned each year. She said 
that when a mistake has been made, we try to put customers back in the position they would 
have been had the mistake not happened. And while a misrepresentation had occurred, we 
wouldnt necessarily put Mr J in the position he would have been had the wrong information 
been true. 
Because Mr J wasnt eligible for a second companion voucher within the year, she didnt 
think that AMEX was required to pay him compensation to reflect that he didnt receive this. 
She also didnt think that Mr J had mitigated his losses when taking his annual leave as he 
took this even though the voucher hadnt arrived at that time. She said that AMEX had 
increased its compensation offer to £200 for the trouble and upset Mr J had been caused 
and she thought this was reasonable. 
Mr J didnt agree the revised offer was reasonable. He said while the terms and conditions 
were available to him, his decision was based on the advice he was given by the AMEX 
advisers. He said he took action based on being told he would receive the second 
companion voucher and has suffered considerable losses as a result. 
He said he wouldnt have continued to spend on his AMEX card if he hadnt been told he 
would receive the second companion voucher. He didnt accept that the proposed £200 
compensation was enough for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused and the 
financial commitments and lost opportunities he had suffered.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J said that he first thought he would only receive one companion voucher in any year and 
his year would run from March to March. This was correct and in line with the account terms 
and conditions. Mr J received a companion voucher in July 2022 when he had spent 
enough. However, when Mr J contacted AMEX in February 2023, he was given wrong 
information about receiving a second companion voucher.I have the call recordings from 12 and 27 February 2023. On the call on 12 February Mr J 
asks about the amount he needs to spend to receive a companion voucher and the 
timeframe. Mr J is told he is entitled to companion voucher as he has spent enough, and he 
will receive a voucher in March. He is then told that he will receive one companion voucher 
each year. 
On the call on 27 February, Mr J asks if he will be receiving a companion voucher and when 
it will be issued. He is told the voucher is issued when the customer meets the spend 
requirements. The adviser confirms that Mr J has earned a companion voucher in the year 
and says it appears it was earned in the previous month. He is told it can take three weeks 
to credit the account and that it is on its way to Mr J. The adviser says he will be emailed 
when the voucher is available.  
Having listened to the calls it is clear that Mr J was given wrong advice. While he was 
correctly told he would only receive one companion voucher in a year and that his year ran 
from March to March, he was also told that he had earned a voucher in the previous month 
that would be with him soon. Based on this I can understand why Mr J thought he would be 
receiving another companion voucher in March 2023.
When a misrepresentation occurs, we do not require the business to take action to reflect 
what would have happened if the misrepresentation had been true. So, I do not require 
AMEX to provide Mr J with the second companion voucher for the year of March 2022 to 
March 2023. Instead, we look to put the customer back in the position they would have been 
had the correct information been given.
Mr J was told in February 2023 he would receive another voucher. Before this call I find it 
reasonable to accept that he knew he would only receive the one companion voucher and 
that he had received this in July 2022 for the year of March 2022 to March 2023. On the call, 
Mr J was told that he had met the criteria for the new voucher to be issued so he didnt need 
to spend more on the card at that time. Therefore, on balance, I dont think Mr J would have 
acted differently in regard to his spending if he had been given the correct information in 
February 2023.
Mr J has said he took leave because he was told he would be receiving the companion 
voucher. I note on the call on 27 February he asks about booking a holiday and when his 
companion voucher will arrive. He is told that he will be contacted when the voucher is 
available and provided with the timeframe to use this. While I can understand why Mr J took action expecting the voucher to arrive, he could have 
avoided this issue had he waited until he had received the voucher or, changed his plans 
when, on 2 March, he found out he wouldnt be receiving a further voucher.  
That said, I do accept that the wrong information Mr J received meant he expected to be 
able to take a holiday using the voucher only to then realise he had already received his 
voucher for March 2022 to March 2023. I accept this will have been upsetting and he would 
have had to change his plans or pay for costs he thought he would not need to pay for. 
Because of this AMEX should pay Mr J compensation to reflect the upset and inconvenience 
he has been caused.
While I appreciate that Mr J doesnt think the £200 offered is fair, in this case, I find this 
reasonable. I recognise the upset Mr J was caused and that he was told he would be 
receiving another companion voucher. But I also accept that the terms of the account set out 
that a customer will only receive one voucher in a year and Mr J was told this on the call on 
12 February. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by American Express Services Europe Limited to pay 
Mr J £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by providing him with 
incorrect information about his companion vouchers is reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman