DRN-2824482
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Alpha Underwriting Limiteds (Alpha) handling of the renewal of her 
pet insurance policy and their decision to offset her claim settlement against the additional 
premium they say is due. Mrs W wants Alpha to refund the full amount of the claim 
settlement. 
  
What happened
Mrs W took out pet insurance for her pet dog in November 2018 and paid a monthly 
premium of £16.77. Mrs Ws dog then developed a lump which was treated by a vet in 
February 2020 and she made a claim for £336.34. Alpha then wrote to Mrs W in March and 
said her premium had increased to £118.52 per month on renewal in November 2019 and 
she owed them £508.75. Mrs W says she never received any notification of the premium 
increase. Mrs W says her husband contacted Alpha about the claim and they said Mrs W 
needs to pay the outstanding balance before they can settle the claim.   
Mrs W complained about the position taken by Alpha and also about not receiving any 
notification of the increase in premium. Alpha responded and said there had been a system 
error which meant the correct premium hadnt been collected since the policy renewal in 
November 2019. They said the difference would need to be paid in order for the policy to 
remain live. They said they received Mrs Ws claim and when it was reviewed they noted the 
outstanding premium due was greater than the claim amount. 
Alpha referred to the policy documentation which was sent to Mrs W on policy inception 
which they said informed Mrs W that her policy would automatically renew the following year 
and documents would be sent out prior to the renewal date to inform of any changes.  They 
said the policy also informed Mrs W that any outstanding premiums would be deducted from 
a claim. They said renewal invites are sent via an automated process and a renewal invite 
was sent to Mrs W by email on 12 October 2019. They said if an invite cannot be delivered 
then they are notified by an error message and no such message was received. They said 
they cant ascertain why Mrs W didnt receive the email and to check with her provider. 
Alpha said the renewal invite set out renewal details and the new premium. And they said a 
policy cannot go live if an automated policy invite is not sent. Alpha said that the renewed 
Direct Debit mandate was not updated with the renewed premium amount which meant the 
premium continued to be collected at the previous rate of £16.77 per month as opposed to 
the renewed premium of £118.52 per month. In relation to the claim settlement, they said, 
had the outstanding balance been paid, then no deduction wouldve been made, and they 
wouldve paid out the claim settlement. They said, as they had to make the premium 
deduction, no remittance was due. Alpha acknowledged there had been a delay in notifying 
Mrs W of the required premiums and offered compensation of £50. 
Mrs W remained unhappy and cancelled her policy and took out a policy with another 
insurer. She also paid the vet for the treatment. Mrs W has told our investigator that she has 
since bought a new policy at a cost of £18.40 per month.       
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs W. She thought Alpha had acted unreasonably in 
not sending Mrs W renewal documents and had acted unfairly in deducting the claim 
settlement from the outstanding premium. She recommended Alpha pay compensation to 
Mrs W equal to the claim settlement and she shouldnt pay the outstanding premium. Alpha 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I agree the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My starting point is Mrs Ws pet insurance policy. This sets out the terms and conditions of 
the policy and says under the heading Changes we can make to your policy, We can 
review the premium at renewal this may increase, decrease or stay the same. The terms and 
conditions of the Policy maybe changed, We will always give You at least 30 days notice of 
the change in writing and it will be sent to the address that You have told Us is Your home 
address or an email address. And, under the heading Renewal of your policy, it says Your 
Policy is an annual Policy and will automatically renew each year The policy also says 
under the heading Cancelling your policy, If a claim has been made the full premium will be 
due at cancellation, which we reserve the right to remove before any claim is made. 
 
I can see from Mrs Ws pet insurance schedule, her policy started on 1 November 2018 and 
would end on 31 October 2019. The schedule says a premium of £16.77 will be taken 
monthly by Direct Debit. I have seen the renewed schedule and this started on 1 November 
2019 and would end on 31 October 2020. The schedule says a premium of £118.52 will be 
taken by monthly Direct Debit. 
A claim form is submitted to Alpha in February 2020 for the sum of £336.34. Alpha then 
email Mrs W to say, since her policy was renewed on 1 November 2019, they have 
continued to collect the premium amount for the previous years policy. This has meant 
theres an outstanding balance of £508.75 to pay. Mrs W responds and says she has paid all 
premiums to date so doesnt understand how a balance is outstanding. Alpha say there has 
been a system error which meant that at renewal the Direct Debit didnt change to the new 
renewal premium. They say this has now been updated but to ensure the cover stays in 
place they require payment within 10 days. Mrs W queries what the increase is and Alpha 
explain a renewal invite was sent 21 days prior to the renewal date. They also say their 
policies arent able to go live without the renewal documents being sent. They say Mrs W will 
be aware from the policy documents this is a Direct Debit policy and will automatically renew 
each year. They say if Mrs W didnt receive renewal documents it was her responsibility to 
contact Alpha so they can re-issue the documents. Mrs W replies and again asks how much 
the premium has increased by and says she hadnt been told about a price rise otherwise 
she wouldve shopped around for a more competitive price. Alpha respond and say the new 
monthly premium has increased to £118.52 and £1,236.86 per year. Mrs W replies and says 
she never received any notification about the premium increase otherwise she wouldve 
declined and purchased another policy. She says she no longer wants the policy but wants 
the claim to be covered. Alpha reply and confirm Mrs Ws policy is cancelled. 
Alpha have provided system notes which show that the claim form was received in February 
2020 and the claim was paid in March in the sum of £203.44. There is then a note in May 
which says the premium has wiped out the claim. Alpha say if a renewal invite isnt sent then a policy schedule cannot be sent or a copy 
retrieved  and they have sent us a policy schedule for the renewal. They say, since the final 
complaint response they have changed their computer systems and some data held on the 
old system couldnt be migrated to the new system. So, the background information of the 
exact time of the email sent with the renewal invite cannot be retrieved  but they say it was 
sent. Alpha have sent us a document which notes a date of 1 October 2019 and says 
converted to policy. There is a further note which is dated 1 November 2019 and says 
Quote saved. Alpha say this shows evidence of renewal. 
So, taking this all into account, I think there has been an error by Alpha and they should take 
steps to put this right. I havent been provided with any evidence which shows an email was 
sent to Mrs W in advance of the renewal in November 2019 letting her know about the 
changes. So, I cant say Alpha have acted in line with their terms and conditions. Alpha have 
provided a copy of the policy schedule which started in November 2019. But, given Mrs W 
disagrees she received notification, I would expect to see evidence in the form of an email to 
prove Alpha had notified Mrs W of the renewal terms and price increase in advance of the 
policy automatically renewing. And, Alpha havent provided this evidence. I understand 
Alpha have had difficulties getting this information due to a computer system change but I 
believe we have provided sufficient time and opportunity for them to provide evidence. And, 
while they have provided further information which says converted to policy in October 
2019, Im not persuaded this shows Mrs W received renewal information setting out the 
changes in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. And, the date of this note doesnt 
match the date Alpha say the renewal invite was sent in their complaint response.  
I understand Alphas point that it was Mrs Ws responsibility to chase them if she hadnt 
received renewal documents, but I dont agree. Having not received any notification of 
changes, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mrs W to assume all terms remained 
unchanged. And, I think the fact the same premium of £16.77 continued to be taken by 
Direct Debit, even after renewal, would have given Mrs Ws some reassurance of this. So, I 
dont agree there was any reason for Mrs W to suspect something was wrong.  
The next point Ive considered is what, I think, the outcome wouldve been had Alpha notified 
Mrs W of the changes. I can see from documents provided by Mrs W, she bought a new 
policy from another insurer after she cancelled with Alpha. Under the new policy, Mrs Ws 
monthly payments are £18.40. And, the general scope of cover is similar to what she had 
with her renewed policy arranged by Alpha  and with a similar excess. When deciding what 
steps I believe Mrs W wouldve taken had she been notified of the change prior to renewal, I 
think its important to take into account Mrs Ws actions when she was later notified of this in 
March 2020. Mrs W immediately cancels the policy and explains, had she been notified of 
this, she wouldve declined the renewal and shopped around for a more competitive 
premium. I believe, on the balance of probabilities, its more likely than not that wouldve also 
been the case prior to renewal and Mrs W wouldve declined the renewal terms on the basis 
of the significantly higher premium she would be expected to pay. The evidence shows Mrs 
W was then able to secure pet insurance with another insurer for a premium close to what 
she was paying previously. 
If Mrs W had changed insurer prior to renewal in November 2019, then the claim wouldve 
been considered by her new insurer. I havent seen any evidence which suggests the claim 
wouldve been declined by the new insurer due to any exemption so I believe it wouldve 
been paid out  as it has been by Mrs Ws previous insurer. 
So, taking this all into account, I believe Mrs W wouldve been left in a position where her 
claim will have been settled by way of a payment and she wouldnt have been left with an 
outstanding balance of £508.75 to pay. And, it therefore follows, these are the points I have taken into consideration when deciding what I think Alpha should do to put Mrs W back into 
the position she wouldve been in had the error not occurred. 
Its an insurers responsibility to settle a claim, but the evidence here shows this has been 
paid. So, to put things right, Alpha should pay compensation to Mrs W equal to the claim 
settlement minus any deductions that would be made under the policy for a successful claim. 
And, I dont think its fair for Alpha to be pursuing the additional £508.75 as I believe Mrs W 
wouldnt have accepted the renewal terms and wouldve cancelled her policy  which means 
this balance wouldnt have accumulated. 
I can see Alpha say they administered the policy and sent renewal documents  and if 
premiums are owed then this is the responsibility of the insurer. They say they have no 
responsibility in ensuring premiums are paid in order for a claim to be settled as the 
complaint should be against the insurer. I have taken this into account, but the error was 
caused by not sending the renewal documents  and that is something which does fall within 
Alphas responsibility as administrators of the policy. The impact this has had on Mrs W has 
arisen directly out of this error. Im aware the cost of the premium is something which the 
insurer is responsible for. So, Alpha will need to sort out any issue with the 
insurer/underwriter direct but Alpha shouldnt request this additional premium from Mrs W.      
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Alpha have made an error by not sending renewal documents to  
Mrs W and this has led to her claim settlement being unfairly deducted against the 
outstanding premium they say is owed by Mrs W. So, Alpha should pay compensation to 
Mrs W equal to the claim settlement. Alpha can deduct from this sum any deductions which 
apply in line with the policy terms and conditions for a successful claim. And, Alpha shouldnt 
pursue Mrs W for the outstanding premium and make any necessary arrangements with the 
insurer/underwriter direct. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Alpha Underwriting Limited must take the 
steps set out in my decision and pay compensation to Mrs W equal to the value of her claim 
settlement.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman