DRN-3024520
The complaint
Mr R complains that Starling Bank Limited registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud
database, after closing his account.
What happened
Starling Bank says it received a report that a payment of £50 received into Mr Rs account
on 6 December 2019 was fraudulent. It asked him to provide evidence to show this was
legitimate. Mr R told it that this was a deposit for a work Christmas meal he had been
collecting from a colleague. But the information he provided didnt substantiate this and it
closed his account and added the marker.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and the marker removed. He
said that there was high bar for adding the marker. The payment raised suspicions and
Mr Rs evidence didnt demonstrate he had received the money for the reasons he stated.
But he didnt think that this sufficient for Starling Bank to be able to identify that a criminal
offence had occurred.
Starling Bank didnt agree and said that it had applied the standard of proof for CIFAS and
hadnt made a mistake.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 July 2021 and said that I did not 
intend to uphold it. I set out below what I said.
I needed to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Starling 
Bank needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable 
grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and 
that the evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Our investigator put some further questions to Mr R about this payment as Mr R said he 
had lost his job as a result of the marker. And it was unclear why if this money had been 
for a work colleague as he said this couldnt have been resolved. He was also asked who  
he had paid the money to and to point out other deposits he had received in this way.
Mr R maintained that the money was for a work event. He explained that the person who 
sent him the money was sending it on behalf of colleague of Mr R, who wasnt at work at 
the time and couldnt then afford to pay. He said that he had been unable to contact the 
sender since then. And as this person wasnt part of the company, his employer couldnt 
do anything. He lost his job, and this has caused him stress and depression and he has 
limited other opportunities. He didnt answer the question about who he sent this money 
on to and when. And nor did he identify any other similar deposits for this meal.
Frankly, I didnt find Mr Rs explanation of how he came to receive this money credible. 
This is now more involved, and he says the payment was intended for the benefit of a 
person with a different name to him. The name of that person isnt included on the 
distribution list for the Christmas event he has provided. And he hasnt been able to show 
that the money was used for the purpose he says it was sent to him for rather than for his 
benefit. I was unclear why the employee he says had asked for the money to be sent 
couldnt assist him.
The difficult position for him is that Starling Bank has received a claim that this money was 
obtained fraudulently. This has been looked into by the financial business that operates the 
account of the sender. Mr R had the full opportunity at the time to put forward what could 
have been a simple explanation  not least because this was raised on 8 December 2019 - 
before the event he says was due to take place. It isnt as if hed said for example that this 
was a buyer seller dispute over a product or service hed provided. In my view the 
circumstances gave Starling Bank more than cause for suspicion and grounds to think that 
a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. I appreciated the size of the 
payment involved and that there is no information about any other such reports. But that 
doesnt detract from the concerns about Mr R receiving this money and which he hasnt 
been able in my view to address.
Starling Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr R received fraudulent 
funds into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Starling Bank was fair to apply the 
marker, based on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance 
says the business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of 
proof set by CIFAS. This essentially means that Starling Bank needs to have enough 
information to make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases 
where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been 
committed, rather than mere suspicion.
Having reviewed Mr Rs account of events and the evidence Starling Bank has provided, I 
was satisfied that Starling Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be 
recorded. In coming to this view, Id taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr R received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Starling 
Bank at the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had 
the benefit of this money.
- Starling Bank had grounds to believe that Mr R had used fraudulently obtained 
funds based on the evidence it had.
I appreciated what Mr R says about the impact the marker has had on him. But I said that in 
my provisional decision I didnt have a reasonable basis to require Starling Bank to do 
anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Starling Bank didnt make any further comments.
Mr R didnt agree and asked what further information he could provide. He was unhappy that 
this was over a mere £50 and his accounts were closed down and the marker added. This 
has affected his life and ability to get employment and support his family. He wanted the 
marker removed and said that if this had been fraud it would have been for hundreds of 
thousands of pounds and that Starling Bank had acted in an arrogant way.
He submitted a marked up copy of his bank statement from that time showing that other 
payments he received were related. And that some amounts were less than £50 because he 
had partly been paid in cash and some have been transferred. He wanted to know why these others werent pulled up. He didnt know how he was supposed to get any further 
information if he didnt have access to his banking app and didnt work for the company now. 
He cant get any proof from this individual outside work.
I am looking at a complaint about what Starling Bank did. I am considering whether it made a 
mistake and it acted fairly. I am taking into account guidance from CIFAS and the standard 
required to add a marker. There is no minimum amount in considering fraud and although I 
understand Mr Rs point about there being no other evidence of problems, thats not 
something that means that Starling Bank was wrong to consider this payment alone.
I appreciate what Mr R says about not having information or evidence now and the difficulty 
in getting this. But he was given a full opportunity to provide this at the time to Starling Bank 
when the barriers he now describes such as not having details about his account and not 
working for the company any more werent there. In fact, given what he says about the 
impact of the marker on his employment there was an even stronger incentive for him to sort 
this out with colleagues. I have noted other payments he received around that time and our 
investigator asked for details of these before I issued my provisional decision and evidence 
about where any money was sent. I dont on the evidence available have a basis to think 
that these are linked as Mr R insists to a work event. Im afraid I still dont find his account of 
that credible.
I dont have a basis to think that Starling Bank made a mistake and I think it was reasonably 
required to record what it considered to be fraud. I understand the ongoing impact for Mr R 
but Im afraid that arises as I have explained in my decision from the consequences of his 
actions in receiving funds he cant show he was entitled to. I wont be asking Starling Bank to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman