DRN-3936715
The complaint
Mrs and Mr F complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited mis-sold their private health 
insurance to them.
What happened
Mrs and Mr F said that in 2017 a representative from AXA PPP called and told them they 
could have the same private health insurance cover they had but for a cheaper price, so they 
took out a joint policy with AXA.
In 2022 Mrs F wanted to see a named doctor at her local private hospital, which Ill refer to 
as B, and she claimed on the policy. AXA PPP told her it would fully cover the consultation 
with the doctor but it would only cover 60% of Bs costs as B wasnt on the list of hospitals 
that were fully covered under the policy terms. Ultimately as a goodwill gesture AXA PPP 
paid the full costs of Mrs Fs treatment at B.
Mrs and Mr Fs complain that they were mis-sold the policy by AXA. They said their old 
policy gave them full cover for treatment at B and when they bought this policy AXA PPP told 
them it gave the same cover. They want the policy to be changed so that they can be fully 
covered for treatment at B or for AXA PPP to re-instate the old policy.
AXA PPP didnt accept it had mis-sold the policy. It said:
Mr F said hed been insured with AXA PPP for many years but hed been insured by 
another insurer (which it named) before he moved to AXA PPP in 2017. Mrs F had a 
previous policy with AXA, a Health Select policy, which did cover Bs full costs.
In July 2017 Mrs F had phoned AXA PPP to say the cost of renewing her policy was 
too high and its call which sold the new policy to Mrs and Mr F followed Mrs Fs call.
It didnt have a recording of the main sales call which had been deleted in line with 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) requirements so it didnt know exactly 
what its representative said to Mrs and Mr F about the new policy. But it had notes 
from that call and another call with Mrs and Mr F around the same time when they 
had asked if the cost of another named doctor would be covered. AXA PPP had told 
them the doctors costs would be covered if treatment took place at a named 
hospital. AXA PPP said that conversation showed Mrs and Mr F were aware the 
cover provided by the new policy wasnt exactly the same as Mrs Fs old AXA PPP 
policy.
The policy did give full cover for costs of hospitals that were on the hospital list. It had 
told Mrs and Mr F the names of the fully covered private hospitals in their area, 
although Mrs F had been unhappy these were NHS hospitals with private wings.
A policy gave cover for a 12 month period. At the policy sale and renewal AXA PPP 
sent Mrs and Mr F the terms of the policy. The hospital list was on its website for 
them to see. Details of which hospitals were on the list and changes wouldnt 
generally be discussed at policy sale and renewal unless a policyholder specifically 
asked. The hospital list can change over time but B had never been on the hospital 
list for this policy. 
Mrs and Mr F told it they didnt read the policy documents but it could reasonably 
expect them to check that the cover was suitable for their needs.
Our investigator said AXA PPP hadnt mis-sold the policy.
Mrs and Mr F disagree and want an ombudmans decision. They added:
When they bought the policy AXA PPP didnt tell them they would only be covered for 
60% of costs for B, which was a hospital they had used over the years. 
They thought AXA PPP fully paid the claim, when it had said it only needed to pay 
60%, because it knew it was in the wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether AXA PPP mis-sold the policy to Mrs and Mr F and I dont think it 
did. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr F but I dont uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen AXA PPPs call notes from 2017 showing Mrs F called AXA PPP as she was very 
upset with the price of her policy. So I think it was reasonable for AXA PPP to speak to her 
about policy options that were cheaper than the policy she had.
Its frustrating for Mrs and Mr F that the policy sales call isnt available. AXA PPP accepts it 
doesnt know exactly what was said in the call about the cover given by the new policy. 
I have to make my decision on the evidence that is available.
Ive seen AXA PPPs call note from July 2017 which shows that when Mr F had the quote for 
the new policy he queried whether a named doctors costs would be covered by the new 
policy. The note shows AXA PPP told him those costs would only be covered for treatment 
at a specific hospital which was named. I think the conversation does suggest that Mr F 
realised the new policy didnt provide the same full cover as Mrs Fs old policy with 
AXA PPP. And I think AXA PPPs response reinforced to Mr F that not all hospitals would be 
covered by the new policy.
The policy documents sent to Mrs and Mr F on the sale of the policy in 2017 and subsequent 
policy renewals are clear that full cover is only for hospitals on the hospital list. The 12 page 
members guide says:
You have access to over 150 private hospitals on Our Hospital List. Heres how to 
find your nearest(phone and website details provided)
The guide also says that if Mrs and Mr F use another hospital AXA PPP will only pay part of 
the cost. 
The full policy document says on page 3 under the heading Why its important to use 
hospitals and day-patient units on the hospital lists that if Mrs and Mr F use hospitals not on 
the list AXA PPP will only pay 60% of the costs and they will have to pay the rest.Mr F told AXA PPP that they didnt read the policy documents. But I think AXA PPP could 
reasonably understand that Mrs and Mr F would as a minimum read the short members 
guide which gives them clear information that not all hospitals are fully covered by the policy.
Ive seen no evidence that at the sale of the policy, or at the policy renewals, Mrs and Mr F 
asked AXA PPP whether the policy fully covered treatment at B. I think AXA PPP could 
reasonably understand that if full cover for treatment at B was the main reason Mrs and Mr F 
had the policy they would have checked that Bs costs were fully covered. Thats particularly 
so given Mr Fs query about cover for a doctors costs when he got the policy quote, as Ive 
detailed above.
Although I cant listen to the sales call, given all the other evidence I think AXA PPP didnt 
mis-sell the policy to Mrs and Mr F.
Ive seen Mrs and Mr Fs questions to AXA PPP about whether its representative who sold 
them the policy received commission and AXA PPPs responses. Whether or not the 
representative received a commission I dont think the policy was mis-sold for the reasons 
Ive given above.
I dont agree with Mrs and Mr Fs suggestion that AXA PPP paid the claim for Bs full costs 
because it knew it had given them wrong information when the policy was sold. AXA PPP 
made it clear to Mrs and Mr F that it paid the costs as a goodwill gesture, which was 
reasonable as I dont think it had to make the full payment.
Even if I thought there was enough evidence to support that AXA PPP had mis-sold the 
policy, which I dont, Mrs and Mr F werent disadvantaged on the claim because AXA PPP 
paid the claim in full as a goodwill gesture. I couldnt have told AXA PPP that it had to add B 
to the hospital list for Mrs and Mr Fs policy in the future. Its AXA PPPs business decision 
about which hospitals are on the hospital list for the policy.
From what AXA PPPs said it does provide a policy where Bs cost would be fully covered, 
although I think its very likely to be more expensive than the policy Mrs and Mr F have. 
Mrs and Mr F may want to speak to AXA PPP about the different policy options.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman