DRN-4012028
The complaint
Mr P complains that Cigna Europe Insurance Company SA declined his claim and added an 
exclusion to his private medical insurance policy.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in August 2020, Mr P had surgery for a right inguinal hernia. He 
had continuing numbness and pain in his right groin area which was increasing in 
September 2021.
In December 2021, Mr P took out a medical insurance policy underwritten by Cigna. He 
disclosed his previous surgery for a right inguinal hernia. Mr P didnt disclose the 
continuing numbness and pain. He says that he believed it to be nerve damage caused 
by the surgery which would diminish over time, as thats what his treating doctor told 
him. 
In March 2022, Mr P had pain in his right hip and leg. In May 2022, Mr Ps doctor 
diagnosed coxarthrosis (osteoarthritis of the hip joint) and sought approval from Cigna 
for the recommended surgery (arthroplasty). 
Cigna asked Mr Ps doctor for additional information which its doctors reviewed. Cigna 
said that the information showed that the pain in Mr Ps right hip started 8-9 months 
previously, so since September 2021  before the start date of the policy. It said that     
Mr P didnt disclose the pain in his right hip when he took out the policy. 
Cigna said that if Mr P had disclosed his pain it would have excluded treatment for right 
groin/leg/hip pain and any associated or related conditions and any complications. In 
light of the medical information provided, Cigna applied an exclusion to Mr Ps policy in 
relation to disease or disorder of the RIGHT HIP and any complications. It declined     
Mr Ps claim. 
Cigna said that it would need updated medical report containing evidence that the pain 
Mr P had since September 2021 was unrelated to his diagnosis of coxarthrosis in his 
right hip. 
Mr P went on to have arthroplasty on his right hip, which I understand he self-funded.  
Mr P didnt think that Cignas decision was fair and pursued his complaint. He says that 
Cignas position is that he knew or should have known about his hip condition when he 
took out the policy. Mr P says that any symptoms he had before March 2022 were, to his 
knowledge, clearly and solely attributable to his hernia and surgery, not coxarthrosis. He 
says that he still has numbness and pain related to the hernia, even after surgery for 
coxarthrosis, which shows that the symptoms he experienced in September 2021 were 
related to his hernia, not his hip. Mr P wants Cigna to reimburse the costs of surgery on  
his hip.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. She didnt think that Cigna had 
acted unfairly. That was because Mr P hadnt answered accurately Cignas questions 
about his health when he took out the policy. Cigna had shown that if hed done so, it 
would have applied a relevant exclusion to the policy. So, the investigator said that Mr P 
had made a qualifying misrepresentation and that the steps Cigna had subsequently 
taken in applying an exclusion and declining the claim were fair. 
Mr P  didnt agree with the investigator. He said, in summary:
The investigator had addressed the wrong issue. 
Its arguable whether he made a misrepresentation as his treating doctor told him 
that the lingering pain was as a result of nerve damage which would subside, so 
thats why he indicated in the application process that he was fully recovered.  
Regardless of the misrepresentation point, his non-disclosure of hernia pain is 
unrelated to his claim and therefore irrelevant. 
When he took out the policy he had no reason to believe he had any condition 
related to his hip. 
His treating doctor has provided a report which says that his lingering numbness 
and pain isnt related to his osteoarthritis in his right hip. 
The investigator asked Cigna to consider the new medical report. Cigna didnt change its 
position. The investigator considered the matter again. She remained of the view that   
Mr P made a qualifying misrepresentation when he bought the policy and that Cigna 
acted fairly in applying an exclusion and declining the claim. 
The investigator didnt think that Cigna was at fault in concluding that the most recent 
medical report provided by Mr P didnt provide a detailed explanation or evidence in 
relation to whether the side effects of the hernia surgery and the diagnosis of 
coxarthrosis were unrelated. 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator. He said:
The investigator had ignored the medical opinion of his treating doctor.
He doesnt dispute the investigators findings in relation to whether he made a 
qualifying misrepresentation as be believes the issue is irrelevant.
The report hes provided states that the lingering groin pain isnt relate to his hip 
coxarthrosis.
The investigator has replaced the opinion of a medical expert with her own 
opinion. 
He still has groin pain but his symptoms in relation to coxarthrosis were 
eliminated by the surgery, which shows that the groin pain was unrelated to the 
coxarthrosis. 
Mr P asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr P has very strong feelings about this matter. He 
has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have read and 
considered. I trust that Mr P wont take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I 
consider to be the central issue, that is whether Cigna acted fairly and reasonably in its 
handling of Mr Ps claim for arthroplasty for coxarthrosis.       
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Cigna has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding Mr Ps 
complaint because I dont think that Cigna treated him unfairly or unreasonably. I say that 
because:   
I dont agree that Mr Ps non-disclosure of hernia pain is unrelated to his claim for 
arthroplasty for coxarthrosis. Ill explain why. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails 
to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what 
CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
Cigna concluded that Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he didnt tell it about the pain he had when he took out the 
policy.  
Ive listened to the phone call between Mr P and Cigna when he took out the policy. 
Cigna asked Mr P whether he had any illness, condition or symptom not already 
mentioned. Mr P answered no. That wasnt in fact the case, as Mr P had pain. I 
appreciate that he believed that his pain was nerve damage caused by the hernia 
surgery which would diminish over time but that doesnt change the outcome here. 
Cignas question wasnt qualified in any way and Mr P should have disclosed his 
pain. 
Mr P disclosed his previous hernia operation in the phone call. In relation to that, 
Cigna asked whether Mr P was fully recovered with no recurrence for over 12 
months. Mr P answered yes. That wasnt an accurate answer as Mr P had 
continuing numbness and pain. 
I dont think that Cigna was at fault in concluding that Mr P hadnt taken reasonable 
care in answering the relevant questions. I dont agree that Cignas position is that Mr P knew or should have known about his 
hip condition when he took out the policy. I think that Cigna could reasonably expect 
Mr P to answer its questions accurately so that it could decide whether or on what 
terms to offer him cover. Cigna has shown that if it had known the true position, it 
would have offered Mr P cover on different terms in that it would have added an 
exclusion to Mr Ps policy in relation to treatment for disease or disorder of the right 
hip and any complications. This means Im satisfied that the misrepresentation was a 
qualifying one under CIDRA. Cigna was entitled to add an exclusion to Mr Ps policy, 
and I dont think that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in doing so. It follows that I 
dont think that Cigna acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Ps claim. 
Cigna said that it would reconsider the matter if Mr P provided an updated medical 
report containing evidence that the pain he had at the time he took out the policy was 
unrelated to his later diagnosis of coxarthrosis. In response to the investigators view, 
Mr P provided an updated report dated 25 May 2022 which now included the 
following:
The lingering numbness and pain at right inguinal has existed since the 
hernia surgery and is not related to the osteoarthrosis complaints of the right 
hip. 
My role isnt to substitute the medical judgment of any of the medical professionals 
involved in the case with my own. But I do weigh up all the medical evidence Ive 
been provided with to decide whether I think Cigna handled Mr Ps claim fairly and 
reasonably. 
I dont think that Cigna acted unfairly or unreasonably in concluding that the 
additional information Mr P provided wasnt sufficient to support a change in its 
position. Theres no detailed explanation or evidence to support Mr Ps doctors 
assertion about the pain and osteoarthritis being unrelated. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but there are no grounds on which I can fairly direct 
Cigna to reimburse his medical expenses.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 Louise Povey
Ombudsman