DRN-4148598
The complaint
Mr Y complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) handled 
his disputed transaction claim.
What happened
Mr Y purchased an item online in May 2022 and paid using his AESEL card. When the item 
was delivered to Mr Y it was damaged and he refused to accept it and it was returned direct 
to the supplier.  The courier responsible for returning the item lost it and it was never 
received by the seller. Mr Y discovered that the seller received compensation for the loss 
from the courier.
Mr Y tried to resolve things with the seller but was unable to do so. He says that as things 
stand, hes been charged £6,150 for an item he refused delivery of, and the seller has been 
refunded the full purchase price by the courier.
Mr Y contacted AESEL to raise a disputed transaction claim. The seller defended the 
chargeback and said it had evidence from the courier that the items had been delivered. 
AESEL said it wouldnt refund the cost of the item because the information provided by Mr Y 
didnt validate the claim. AESEL also said it wouldnt contact the seller because the item was 
lost in transit and Mr Y would have to contact the seller directly. 
Mr Y was unhappy with the outcome of his chargeback claim and brought his complaint to 
this service. He wants the cost of the item refunded and compensation for the trouble and 
upset hes been caused.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that Mr Y had evidenced that he had 
returned the item using the sellers contracted parcel service in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the seller. The investigator also said that AESEL hadnt correctly 
considered Mr Ys claim under section 75 and said there had been a breach of contract 
because the seller hadnt refunded Mr Y for the returned item. The investigator said that 
AESEL should refund the sum of £6,150.
AESEL didnt agree. It said it didnt think Mr Y was entitled to a refund because the seller 
hadnt received the item. It said that Mr Y hadnt complied with the terms and conditions by 
declining the item and that he should have waiting for the seller to communicate the shipping 
method for returning the item.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen, AESEL has considered the claim under both chargeback and 
section 75. 
Chargeback
Chargebacks are a voluntary scheme. How it works is that the card issuer checks the 
complaint against possible chargeback reasons to see what sort of evidence is required and 
under what timescales. Card issuers dont have to submit claims and will only do so if they 
believe that they have evidence which will back up a chargeback claim so it will be 
successful. This service expects card issuers to help if they can, but we dont expect them to 
raise a chargeback if there is little prospect of success.
In this case it appears that the seller disputed the chargeback on the grounds that the item 
had been delivered to Mr Y. AESEL appears to have determined the chargeback in the 
sellers favour on the basis that the item was lost in transit.
Section 75
In certain circumstances section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr Ys complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that AESELs response to the section 75 claim wasnt 
fair or reasonable.
Ive looked at all of the available evidence as part of my consideration of whether theres 
been a breach of contract here.
Mr Y agrees that the item was delivered to him but says he rejected the item at the point of 
delivery because it was damaged. Mr Y says the courier who delivered the item on behalf of 
the seller agreed to return the item to the supplier.
Mr Y has provided evidence to show that the item was lost in transit by the courier and that 
£6150 was paid to the seller as compensation for the lost item in July 2022.
Mr Y has also provided evidence to show that he requested a refund from the seller. There is 
no evidence to suggest that the seller has issued a refund.
Ive reviewed the sellers terms and conditions. The following clauses are of particular 
relevance. Ive quoted relevant extracts from the clauses rather than the full clause.
4.6 If the customer revokes the contract, then Watchmaster must refund all payments 
received from the customer (except for the cost of the return shipment of goods) within 14 
days from the date on which the return goods have been received by Watchmaster.
4.8 After Watchmaster has received the revocation notice, Watchmaster will arrange for the 
return of the goods. Due to the regularly high value of the goods, the return is recommended 
via the shipping method explicitly communicated by Watchmaster by email. Watchmaster will 
provide the customer with a label for the return shipment for this purpose. The transport will 
then be carried out insured by a parcel service in the name of and on behalf of Watchmaster. 
The customer bears the cost of the return shipment as well as any taxes and fees. The 
purchase amount can only be refunded after receipt of goods by Watchmaster.
4.9 It is possible for the customer to return the goods via a parcel service of their choosing. 
In this case the customer is fully responsible for the return shipment including loss or 
damage in transit. The purchase amount can only be refunded after receipt of goods by 
Watchmaster.
4.10 Watchmaster may reject a refund until Watchmaster has received the returned goods or 
the customer has surrendered the goods to the parcel service contracted by Watchmaster.AESEL has said that Mr Y isnt entitled to a refund because Watchmaster hasnt received 
the goods. It relies on clauses 4.8 and 4.9.
Clause 4.8 deals with circumstances where there has been a revocation notice. I havent 
seen a revocation notice in this case. Mr Y rejected the goods at the point of delivery and the 
shipping method chosen by Watchmaster to send the goods to Mr Y said it would return the 
item to Watchmaster. Im satisfied that for the purposes of clause 4.8, the item was returned 
via a parcel service in the name of and on behalf of Watchmaster. The purpose of clause 4.8 
is to ensure that the item is insured during shipping and its clear that in this case, the item 
was insured, because Ive seen evidence that the seller claimed compensation from the 
parcel service when the item was declared lost in transit.
Clause 4.9 isnt relevant to the circumstances of this case because Mr Y didnt use a parcel 
service of his choosing. He used the parcel service chosen by the seller to send the item to 
him. 
Theres no clause which deals specifically with what happens if an item is lost in transit on its 
way back to the seller. But clause 4.10 states that Watchmaster may reject a refund until the 
customer has surrendered the goods to the parcel service contracted by Watchmaster. Im 
satisfied that Mr Y surrendered the goods to the parcel service contracted by the seller when 
he rejected the item at the point of delivery. Theres no dispute that the parcel service took 
the item back from Mr Y at the point of delivery.
Taking everything into account, I think the seller has breached the terms and conditions of 
the contract by failing to issue a refund to Mr Y pursuant to clause 4.10. 
In the circumstances I dont think AESEL decided the section 75 claim fairly.
Putting things right
To put things right AESEL must:
Refund £6,150 to Mr Ys credit card account
Rework the account as thought the amount had been refunded from the date when AESEL 
first declined the first section 75 claim. This includes refunding any interest, fees or charges 
incurred by Mr Y as a result of the transaction remining on the account
If refunding the transaction means that there is a credit balance on the account, AESEL 
should pay 8% simple interest per year on the credit balance from the date it wouldve arisen 
to the date it ceased to exist.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. American Express Services Europe Limited 
must take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman