DRN-3693469
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that they were mis-sold a holiday club membership and the loan they 
used to pay for it. The loan was originally provided by GE Money Consumer Lending Limited 
but was bought in June 2016 by Elderbridge Limited. Mr and Mrs F are represented by a 
claims management company which Ill call M.    
What happened
In July 2007 Mr and Mrs F entered into a contract in Spain with a company, C, for a points-
based holiday club membership. Mr and Mrs Fs representatives have described the 
membership as a form of timeshare under which points can be exchanged for holidays within 
the group of companies of which C is a part, or at resorts within a wider network through a 
third party exchange company. 
In order to fund the purchase, Mr and Mrs F took out a loan with GE Money over 182 
months. In June 2016 GE Money transferred the loan (along with other parts of its business) 
to Elderbridge. 
In July 2019 M wrote to GE Money on behalf of Mr and Mrs F. It raised a number of 
concerns about the agreement with C and about the loan agreement. Those concerns 
included:
C made misrepresentations about the benefits of the holiday club membership. Under 
the relevant sections of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 Elderbridge is equally liable to 
Mr and Mrs F for those misrepresentations. 
The loan agreement created an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act. 
GE Money had failed to ensure that the loan was suitable. 
C did not carry out appropriate checks to ensure that the loan was suitable and 
affordable. 
C was in breach of the relevant regulations concerning timeshare contracts.
C was in breach of its fiduciary duties to Mr and Mrs F. 
GE Money explained that Elderbridge was responsible for dealing with claims and 
complaints arising from the loan agreement. Both GE Money and M therefore contacted 
Elderbridge with Mr and Mrs Fs concerns. Elderbridge did not accept that it had any liability 
to them. It said, in summary, that the claims had been made too long after the events 
complained of, that they concerned events outside the UK and that in any event it did not 
have the necessary relationship with C such that it could be held liable for Cs actions or 
omissions.
M referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. The investigator did not agree with Elderbridges conclusions that this service 
could not consider the complaint. He thought that we could look at some elements of it. 
However, he also thought that the complaint should not be upheld. M did not accept the 
investigators recommendations and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator 
did. I set out my reasons below. 
In response to the investigators preliminary assessment, M sent lengthy submissions 
prepared by counsel. They were not specific to Mr and Mrs Fs complaint, although they did 
comment on Cs business practices and on the wording of the contracts it used for 
customers in a similar position to Mr and Mrs F. I have considered those submissions in 
detail but  in keeping with this services role as an informal dispute resolution service  I will 
not comment on each and every point made. 
I would note as well that my role in issuing this decision is to address the specific complaint 
that Mr and Mrs F have made about Elderbridge, not to address wider issues about the 
timeshare and holiday club industry or particular participants in it. And, in addressing Mr and 
Mrs Fs specific complaint, I must decide what I consider to be a fair and reasonable 
resolution. 
The complaint about the suitability of the loan 
The rules about what complaint the Financial Ombudsman Service can consider and how it 
must handle complaints are set out in that part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Handbook which deals with disputes  known as DISP. Those rules say that we cannot 
generally consider a complaint unless it is referred to us within six years of the event 
complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which the complainant knew, or 
ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint.  
Part of Mr and Mrs Fs complaint is that GE Money did not properly assess the suitability of 
the loan when they took it out in July 2007. As M has said, the suitability of a loan is not 
limited to whether the borrower can afford to make the payments. It would not however be 
for the lender to assess whether, for example, an underlying purchase represents value for 
money. 
M has said on behalf of Mr and Mrs F that they could only afford to buy the holiday club 
membership by taking out the loan. That might be taken as an acceptance that they could 
afford the loan. But in any event, it seems to me that they would have been aware quite soon 
after they took out the loan if it was not suitable for them. They did not however raise any 
complaint about it until some twelve years after they had taken it out. 
For these reasons, I do not believe that the Financial Ombudsman Service has any power to 
consider the complaint about the suitability of the loan. It was referred to the service outside 
the time limits in the DISP rules.  
There are however other elements of the complaint that go beyond the suitability of the loan 
itself, so I will discuss those. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the same Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. 
Elderbridge says however that the loan was not paid to C but to a trustee which was a 
different legal entity from it. The conditions of section 75 were not therefore met, because 
any pre-existing arrangements were between GE Money and the trustee, not between GE 
Money and the supplier, C.
Section 75 can however still apply, if the loan is made under pre-existing arrangements with 
an associate of the supplier, as defined in the Act. Whether the trustee was an associate of 
C depends on their corporate structure and control of them. For reasons I shall explain, I do 
not need to determine that issue here, and I have approached this case on the basis that 
they were associates and that section 75 could therefore apply.    
I must therefore consider the claims against C in misrepresentation and for breach of 
contract. M says that C misled Mr and \Mrs F about the holiday club membership. For 
example, they were told that they would be able to book exclusive accommodation and that 
they would save money on holidays. They say those statements proved to be untrue.   
Misrepresentation and breach of contract
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
The remedies available can include rescission of the contract; that is the remedy which is 
sought in this case. 
Under the Limitation Act 2010 an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation 
cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action 
accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs F into the contract for the 
purchase of holiday club membership were made in or about July 2007. They did not 
however raise any complaint with GE Money or Elderbridge until July 2019, twelve years 
later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim against C was 
made outside the time limit in the Limitation Act. 
The Limitation Act also provides that an action based on breach of contract must be brought 
within six years of the breach. M says that C was in breach of contract because, amongst 
other things, the contract did not comply with The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and 
Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 or with the European Directive 2008/121/EC. Both 
pieces of legislation were not in force in 2007 but sought to strengthen the protections 
provided at that time by, for example, the Timeshare Act 1992. M says too that the contract 
was not compliant with Spanish law, although it has also submitted that Mr and Mrs F could 
not have been expected to understand it, since it was governed by Sots law. 
Be that as it may, a breach of regulations or other legislation does not necessarily give rise 
to a claim for breach of contract. And, even if I were to take the view that it did in this case, 
any breach of this type would have taken place when the contract was concluded. It follows that a court would be likely to conclude that it was brought well outside the relevant time limit 
in the Limitation Act. 
Mr and Mrs F have not specified any particular instance where they have not received the 
services set out in the written contract with C. I note however that the submissions in 
response to the investigators assessment included an assertion that, from around 2013, the 
supply of timeshare and holiday club accommodation was limited. 
M has also submitted that many of Cs standard terms are likely to be unfair within the 
meaning of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999. If correct, those 
terms would be unenforceable against Mr and Mrs F. The existence of an unfair term in a 
contract does not, however, give rise to a claim for breach of contract, and no specific claim 
has been made in this case. 
For these reasons, I think it was reasonable of Elderbridge not to accept Mr and Mrs Fs 
claims under section 56 and section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act.
Section 104A claims
Under section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. 
Ms argument here is that the relationship between Mr and Mrs F one the one hand and GE 
Money and then Elderbridge on the other is unfair because C received a commission but did 
not disclose it. The investigator noted that the commission was around 4%; he did not 
believe a commission at that level created an unfair relationship. 
M has argued that all commission, including the level of it, should be disclosed. I accept that 
failure to disclose commission can in some cases lead to unfairness  for example, where a 
broker recommends one product over another because of differences in commission rates. 
But this was not a case where C was recommending a loan from a range of different 
providers. It was setting up a loan with the lender with which it had (direct or indirect) 
connections. This was not a case where C would be better off if, for example, it 
recommended one lender over another.   
In addition, I think that the terms of the loan agreement itself were clear and unambiguous. 
They set out how much the loan was for, what payments needed to be made and when, the 
interest rate and the number of payments made. That, of itself, does not mean that the loan 
agreement could not have created an unfair relationship, but I agree with the investigator 
that there was nothing about the relationship between borrower and lender that made the 
loan inherently problematic, and nor was there anything about the conduct of GE Money or 
Elderbridge that made the loan unfair.    
Summary 
As I have indicated, my role is to determine what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this individual complaint. I have not decided whether Mr and Mrs F have 
valid claims against C or whether they might be time-barred in court proceedings. Rather, I 
have considered Elderbridges response to the complaints made.
For completeness, I should note as well that Elderbridge said that, as the holiday club 
membership and loan were sole outside the UK, this service could not consider the 
complaint. The financial services complained about  the provision of and administration of the loan  were however provided from within the UK. The activity complained about meets 
our territorial requirements. 
As I have indicated, some parts of the complaint were not referred to us within our own time 
limits and I cannot look at them. To the extent I can, however, I do not believe that 
Elderbridge has acted unfairly.      
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Elderbridge Limited to do 
anything further to resolve Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman