DRN-4143509
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Select 
packaged account in August 2005.
Mr L has also complained that a £10 monthly fee was applied to his account from around 
2011, after he downgraded his account. Mr L wants these fees refunded too as he believes 
he should never have been charged the fees.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that the Select account 
had been mis-sold. She also concluded that the £10 monthly fees were most likely charged 
because Control had been added to Mr Ls account. The adjudicator explained that the 
purpose of Control was to limit the amount of unarranged overdraft charges that Mr L was 
being charged.
Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
As a reminder, this decision will only address whether the Select account fees and the 
Control account fees should be refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having done so I dont think that the 
packaged account was mis-sold. I also dont think that the Control fees should be refunded 
either. I will explain why.
Sale of the packaged account
Mr L has said that he should not have been sold the Select account because of his financial 
situation at the time.
Firstly, from the outset, it does appear that Mr L agreed to the upgrade, and hes not said 
anything to suggest he thought he had no choice in the matter. As such, I think that Mr L 
agreed to the upgrade and did so in the knowledge that it was optional and that he didnt 
have to have the packaged account if he didnt want it.
Lloyds recommended the account, this meant it had to be a reasonable fit for Mr Ls 
circumstances. 
At the time the account cost £7 per month and provided mobile phone insurance and car 
breakdown cover. It also provided a £50 interest free overdraft facility, and lower rates of 
interest on overdrawn balances above this amount (up to the agreed limit).
Lloyds has provided evidence to show that Mr L registered a number of phones under the 
mobile phone cover and also made a number of claims. As the Select account was the 
cheapest package to include this cover and Mr L was clearly able to benefit from the cover, it 
looks like Lloyds recommendation was reasonable.
Mr L says that Lloyds should never have sold him the packaged account due to his financial 
circumstances. However, looking through his bank statements from 2005, there was no 
indication that Mr L was in financial difficulties at the time. Nor is there evidence to suggest  
that Mr L told Lloyds that he was struggling financially at the time either. So, although it may 
be the case that he was struggling financially in more recent times, I cant reasonably say 
that Lloyds should not have sold him the account when it did, given that there was no 
indication at the time that he was struggling financially.
Therefore, I think Lloyds recommendation was reasonable.
As well as making sure that the packaged account was a reasonable fit for his 
circumstances at the time, Lloyds also had to provide Mr L with the important information 
about the account, so that he understood what he was agreeing to.
Due to how long ago the account was sold, its difficult to say what exactly was discussed 
during the sale. And I accept that Mr L might not have been given all the information he 
shouldve been at the time. But having said that, Mr L was clearly given some information as 
he knew how to register phones, and also how to make insurance claims. And Ive not seen 
anything about Mr Ls circumstances at the time that makes me think he wouldve been put 
off from agreeing to the packaged account, had he been given even more information about 
it.
So, taking everything into account, I dont think that it was mis-sold.
Control added to the account
Mr L downgraded his Select account in 2010 to a fee-free classic account. However, since 
around 2011, Mr L has been charged £10 monthly account fees. Mr L has asked that these 
be refunded as he was in financial difficulties.
Following the adjudicators investigation, it seems that the £10 monthly fees were the result 
of a feature called Control being added to his account. Mr L has questioned whether this is 
actually the case, because he was told that his account is a Classic account and therefore 
should not incur any regular fee (beyond overdraft charges and interest).
To reassure Mr L that the fee is almost certainly because Control was added to his account, 
I have included an extract from Lloyds banking charges guide from 2014 as an example 
(although Control is explained in documents from other years too). It says:
Our Control Option
Control is an add-on for our Classic and Club Lloyds accounts that can help you to 
stay on top of your finances. 
Control cannot be added to any of our other current accounts, even where Club 
Lloyds benefits have been added to a Silver, Gold, Platinum or Premier account.
For a £10 monthly fee, Control will help you in two ways:
We will not charge you any Returned Item Fees if you try to make a payment 
for which you do not have enough available money, however you may incur charges 
from the recipient of the payment.
If your account does go into an Unplanned Overdraft, you will not pay any 
fees for the Unplanned Overdraft. Interest will still be charged.
The charges and interest for Planned Overdrafts are the same as shown in the table 
on pages 6 and 7.So based on the above and also from what Lloyds has said, Im satisfied that the £10 
monthly fee Mr L incurred from around 2011 was a fee for Control.
Mr L has asked that the Control fees be refunded, because he says he couldnt afford them 
due to his financial difficulties. 
However, I should point out that just because Mr L mayve been in financial difficulties, this 
doesnt mean that Lloyds was unable to charge him any fee or charge at all (which Mr L is 
implying by asking for them to be refunded). In fact, in this case it is quite the opposite, as 
the purpose of Control is to help someone in Mr Ls situation, essentially by limiting the 
amount they are charged in unarranged overdraft charges to £10 a month.
Looking through Mr Ls statements in 2011 i.e. when Control was first added, I can see that 
Mr L regularly had Direct Debits being returned unpaid, due to having insufficient funds in his 
account. And in the period before Control was added, I can also see he was being charged 
more than £10 per month in unarranged overdraft charges too. As an example, in the period 
of 2 November 2010 to 1 December 2010, Mr L was charged £15 in unarranged overdraft 
charges and £20 in returned Direct Debit charges.
So, taking Mr Ls circumstances into account, I think that Lloyds was acting in Mr Ls best 
interests by adding Control to his account given his financial difficulties, as it substantially 
reduced that amount Mr L was being charged each time he tried to take his account into an 
unarranged overdraft.
Finally, I note that Mr L says that Lloyds agreed it should never have provided him with the 
overdraft that it did. But, presuming that Lloyds didnt include the Control fees in its refund 
calculations, I dont think that means the Control fees should also be refunded, because they 
prevented unarranged overdraft charges from being incurred, and did not affect the arranged 
overdraft interest and charges (which is what I understand Lloyds agree to refund).
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that Mr Ls Select account was mis-sold, 
nor do I think that Lloyds should refund the Control fees that were applied to his account 
since 2011. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman