DRN-3443963
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc is treating him unfairly by not offering a better interest 
rate product for his mortgage.
What happened
Mr P has a mortgage with Santander. His account fell into arrears in March 2020. This 
meant he couldnt access the most favourable interest rate products when his product 
expired in late 2021.
Mr P is concerned that he wont be able to afford monthly mortgage payments if Santander 
applies a higher interest rate. His previous product rate was 0.74%. He says the best rate 
available to him in late 2021 was 3.4%. Although Santander offered him an assist rate of 
1.99% Mr P says the payments would still be unaffordable.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out why I didnt uphold this complaint. My 
reasons were substantially as set out What Ive decided  and why below.
Mr P said he didnt accept any of my provisional decision, saying:
hed carried out about a dozen budget planners. These were carried out by phone due to 
his disability. Mr P gave a list of dates when he says he completed budget planners. He 
says there were others which Santander personnel might not have noted down
capitalisation was the only way to deal with his arrears. A Santander staff member said 
the capitalisation could have been done 18 months earlier
my decision was based on incorrect facts and didnt take his evidence, difficult 
circumstances and debilitating injury into account
he didnt understand how I could reach a different outcome to the investigator
the increase in the interest rates offered was unfair, and it wasnt fair that arrears of £400 
should cost him £120,000 and put him at risk of losing his property
he had mortgage offers from five other lenders in late 2021 at rates less than 1% which 
he didnt take while waiting for Santander to deal with his complaint
Santander didnt initially offer the assist rate of 1.99%, it only did this when it knew hed 
take the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service
this has damaged his credit record meaning he cant move to another lender
he intended to take the matter to court, where evidence would be properly considered
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr P feels my decision was based on incorrect facts and didnt take his 
evidence, difficult circumstances and debilitating injury into account. As sometimes happens, 
I didnt agree with everything our investigator recommended. In accordance with our process 
I issued a provisional decision to explain what I thought about the complaint and give both 
parties an opportunity to comment. I can assure Mr P that I have taken everything he and 
Santander provided into account. I should explain that where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances.
At the heart of this complaint is Mr Ps concern about the interest rate being applied to his 
mortgage account. Hed like a rate similar to the product rate that expired in late 2021.
I should say here that theres nothing in the rules on mortgage regulation that requires 
lenders to offer new interest rates to customers when their product expires. The rules say 
that a lender has to treat its customers fairly taking account of their best interests; it has to 
communicate with them in a clear, fair and not misleading way; it has to notify them of 
changes to their monthly payments; and it mustnt take advantage of customers who cant 
move their mortgages elsewhere by treating them differently to other customers with similar 
characteristics.
Theres nothing in Mr Ps mortgage contract to prevent him moving his mortgage elsewhere. 
Given what Mr P has said about his circumstances, he might not be able to source a 
mortgage elsewhere as he might struggle to meet lenders affordability criteria. Mr P says he 
had mortgage offers in late 2021 from five lenders at competitive rates. If so, he didnt need 
to wait for Santander to respond to his complaint to accept one of these offers.
What happened when Mr P wanted to take out a new interest rate product?
Mr P had a product with a variable interest rate of 0.64% above the Bank of England base 
rate (totalling 1.39% when Mr P took it out in 2019 and 0.74% in late 2021). This was due to 
expire in November 2021. Mr P contacted Santander in September 2021 to take out a new 
product.
At that time, Mr Ps account was in arrears of about £380. Santander told him it couldnt offer 
a preferential rate while the account was in arrears. It said the account must be free of 
arrears for at least one month. Santander passed Mr P to the financial support team to 
discuss his circumstances.
Santander agreed in early October 2021 to capitalise Mr Ps arrears. Santander says it 
should have offered to capitalise Mr Ps arrears when it spoke to him on 29 September 2021. 
It paid compensation of £75 for this, and another £25 for poor service at that time. Mr P was 
caused some inconvenience at this time, including having to speak to Santander more often 
than needed. However, given that Santander corrected this error within a few days, I think 
the compensation paid is fair and reasonable.
Santander offers a different range of interest rate products to customers whove recently had 
arrears on their accounts. Santander assesses these accounts as higher risk and the 
products have higher interest rates. So, even after his arrears were capitalised, Mr P couldnt 
access the lowest interest rate products. Mr P wasnt happy with the rates offered. 
Santander offered Mr P its assist rate of 1.99%. It said this was the best rate it could offer.
Should Santander have capitalised Mr Ps arrears sooner?
Mr P says his account shouldnt have been in arrears, and this only came about due to an 
error by Santander when he requested a payment deferral in March 2020. Santander said 
that part of Mr Ps complaint was brought to us outside our time limits. Mr P agreed that we 
wont look into that part of his complaint.While I cant look into how the arrears came about, I can look into whether Santander should 
have capitalised the arrears sooner. This would have allowed Mr Ps account to be clear of 
arrears at an earlier date.
Santander provided its policy for capitalising arrears. The relevant parts here are that 
Santander has to carry out a budget planner to check affordability and Mr P needed to have 
made six consecutive contractual monthly payments. Mr P had taken a payment deferral 
under regulations brought in to help customers during the Covid-19 pandemic. While this 
counted towards the six-month period, he needed to make three monthly payments after the 
deferral period ends.
Mr P says Santander made an error in December 2020 when it applied a payment to his 
arrears rather than as part of his contractual monthly payment. This meant he didnt have six 
consecutive monthly payments until June 2021. Santander said this wasnt an error. A 
payment arrived on 3 December 2020, before the payment for December was due, and it 
says in these circumstances its policy is to apply the payment to the arrears.
Mr Ps contractual monthly payment was due on 4 December 2020. So the payment was 
one day early. Santander followed its policy when it applied the payment to Mr Ps arrears. In 
normal circumstances I think this would be reasonable. But circumstances at the time were 
not normal. This happened during the first year of the Covid-19 pandemic and Mr P had a 
payment deferral in place for November 2020. I think, when Mr P queried what had 
happened to the payment it would have been fair for Santander to apply it, as Mr P intended, 
towards the contractual monthly payment due in December 2020.
However, even if Mr P had made six consecutive monthly payments by March 2021, this 
doesnt mean his arrears would have been capitalised at that time. He would still have had to 
complete a budget planner. Mr P spoke to Santander in April 2021 and in June 2021. 
Santander says Mr P didnt want to provide the information needed to complete a budget 
planner during these calls. 
I think its unlikely Mr P would have completed the budget planner in March 2021, regardless 
of the way the December 2020 payment was allocated. He didnt complete the budget 
planner in June 2021 when he did have six months of payments. I think its likely Mr P 
completed the budget planner in late September 2021 because hed been told he couldnt 
access a new product while there were arrears on the account. I dont think I can fairly find 
that Mr P would have completed the budget planner in March 2021, and therefore I dont 
think his arrears would have been capitalised at that time.
Mr P said hes completed many budget planners and gave a list of dates between July 2020 
and December 2021 where he says he completed budget planners. I must bear in mind that 
Santander would only have considered capitalisation after Mr P had made six consecutive 
monthly payments. And, as Mr P had taken payment holidays due to the Covid-19 
pandemic, he needed to have resumed payments for a minimum of three months. This 
means Santander wouldnt have considered capitalising Mr Ps arrears until March 2021. 
Santander agrees it could have agreed to capitalise Mr Ps arrears on 29 September 2021. 
There are no calls on Mr Ps list that fall between March 2021 and 29 September 2021. 
Having considered what Mr P has said, I dont think he provided the information Santander 
required to make a decision whether to capitalise his arrears before 29 September 2021. 
Did Santander make an error by not offering Mr P a better interest rate?
Mr P says Santander didnt treat him fairly. He says the increase in the interest rate being 
applied to his account is too much and he cant afford the new contractual monthly payment.I should say here that I dont think the outcome of this complaint would have been different if 
Mr Ps arrears had been capitalised in March 2021. The range of interest rate products Mr P 
would have been able to access in late 2021 would still have been limited. This is because 
hed have had arrears on his account within the previous 12 months. The lowest rate that 
would have been available without a product fee was 3.09%. Even if Mr P was prepared to 
pay a product fee he couldnt have secured a rate lower than the assist rate of 1.99% that 
Santander offered him.
Mr P said Santander didnt offer him the assist rate until it thought it would take his complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. I dont think thats fair. Santander offered Mr P the 
1.99% assist rate on 8 October 2021. This was before his product expired. Santander said 
there was no product fee and he wouldnt be tied into the assist rate, but this would reduce 
the interest he was paying until he was able to access a lower interest rate. Mr P declined 
saying he needed a rate of 0.8% maximum.
Mr P says he was told in late September/early October 2021 by a Santander staff member 
expert in capitalisations that his arrears could have been capitalised 18 months earlier. Ive 
listened to the call recordings provided and didnt hear this. Mr P feels very strongly that he 
was told this. However, 18 months earlier would have been March/April 2020 which was 
when the arrears were first recorded. This would appear to be outside Santanders 
capitalisation policy, which requires a minimum of six consecutive monthly payments. As I 
said in my provisional decision, I think this is most likely a misunderstanding.
I dont think that requiring Santander to offer Mr P rates available to customers with arrears 
on their accounts between six and 12 months previously would resolve this matter. This is 
because Santander has already offered a rate lower than these rates.
I think Santander acted fairly when it offered the assist rate  which has no product fee or 
early repayment charge  to Mr P. This was lower than the rates otherwise available to Mr P. 
I appreciate that Mr P wants a lower rate. But I dont think I can fairly require Santander to 
offer Mr P an interest rate that he doesnt meet its criteria for.
What happens now?
Mr P is upset about the amount of the increase in his interest rate. But this isnt because 
Santander put its rates up. Its because Mr P had a product with a low interest rate and this 
product expired. The mortgage terms and conditions say that once the product term expired 
(in November 2021) Santander would apply its follow-on rate.
Mr P said he would continue to pay the same amount as when his previous product applied. 
He said hes in the right to do so, cant afford to pay more and doesnt want the damaging 
effects of entering into an arrangement. Mr P has also said hed make no payments for the 
time being.
Mr P didnt take out a new product or take up Santanders offer of 1.99% interest rate and so 
the follow on rate has been applied. His contractual monthly payments increased as a result. 
If Mr P hasnt been making payments in full there will be arrears on his account.
Ultimately, it was for Mr P to decide whether to take up Santanders offer of the 1.99% assist 
rate. As the assist rate has no product fee or early repayment charge he could have agreed 
this rate while his complaint was resolved, or indeed until he met criteria for a lower interest 
rate product or re-mortgaged elsewhere. Santander isnt responsible for his decision not to 
do so. I dont think in the circumstances its fair and reasonable to require Santander to 
remove adverse data from Mr Ps credit file.From what Mr P says, it seems hell struggle to meet his contractual monthly payments, and 
he might have arrears on his account. Id urge him to get in contact with Santander with the 
aim of agreeing an arrangement. Mr P might also consider taking independent financial 
advice about what options might be available to him. He might consider asking for advice on 
the effect of agreeing an arrangement as compared to simply not paying his contractual 
monthly payments.
Mr P says hes raised complaints that Santander upheld and paid compensation for. This 
doesnt make it fair and reasonable to require Santander to offer a low interest rate product 
to Mr P. And, having considered the matter, I dont think Santander made an error here such 
as to make it fair and reasonable to require it to pay further compensation to Mr P.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman