DRN-3248371
The complaint
Miss P complains Zenith Insurance Plc have unfairly settled a claim under her motor 
insurance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Zenith are responsible for it, 
Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Miss P was unfortunately involved in an accident on 6 December 2020. She says she was in 
the correct lane for the direction she was heading, but the other party wasnt, and they 
collided. Miss P isnt happy Zenith have ultimately held her liable for the accident. Shes said 
this has had a bad effect on her mental health, and shes had to pay out for various things 
including her excess of £900, the release of her car as it wasnt driveable, and the cost of 
courtesy cars.
Zenith said in situations such as this they needed to review what Miss Ps version of events 
were and compare them against what the other party was saying. They said initially, they 
defended Miss P based on her version of events. Later on, they received the other partys 
version of events, including an explanation of what they were going to do. Zenith said Miss P 
had to change lanes to take the exit she intended, but the other party didnt have to and 
intended to take the exit after the one Miss P was heading to. They said Miss P had told 
them the other partys indicator wasnt on, and as shes continued the manoeuvre without 
being able to complete it, they couldnt defend her claim any further. They said the other 
party was in the correct lane, and the road layout along with the road markings support the 
other party was entitled to stay in their lane and continue on to the following exit.
Because of this, Zenith said theyd settle any claims made to them and held Miss P liable.
Miss P asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so but found Zenith had 
acted fairly in deciding to hold her fully liable for the accident.
She didnt agree with this. She said she didnt do anything wrong, the evidence is clear the 
other party was at fault, and she wanted to take it further. So, the complaints been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain I cant decide liability in this accident, only a court could look 
into that further. What I can do is consider whether Zenith have fairly held Miss P fully liable 
for the accident based on the evidence theyve got.
The policy terms say, under General Conditions: 
We shall be entitled to take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim or 
prosecute any claim in the name of any person covered by this insurance.
So, they are allowed to decide how to settle the claim, and on what terms. As our 
Investigator explained to Miss P, this is a standard term in motor insurance cases, so I dont 
find theyve treated her unfairly in deciding matters.
The next question is whether they did so in a fair way. I can see initially Zenith did dispute 
liability with the other partys insurer  as they told Miss P when writing to her with the 
outcome of her complaint.
Ive seen an internal note Zenith have recorded of a conversation they had with Miss P. This 
says she knew the other driver was there  and wasnt indicating. Theyve noted that in order 
for Miss P to safely move across to take the roundabout she should have made sure the way 
was clear.
Theyve repeated this information when writing to Miss P with the outcome of her complaint, 
and shes not disputed this when contacting our service. So, it would seem she accepts 
shed noted he was there, wasnt indicating, and has said she thought he was taking the exit.
Given that, I cant reasonably say Zenith have acted unfairly when deciding Miss P was 
liable for the accident. This decision seems to have been taken reasonably based on what 
Miss P said  that she knew the other vehicle was there but she still tried to move over.
I do understand Miss Ps frustrations with what the road markings show  and that in her 
view the other party should have taken the exit. But, taking everything into account, I think 
Zenith have treated Miss P fairly in deciding to hold her fully liable.
Miss P has my sympathy for how this situation has made her feel, as I can imagine its not 
very pleasant at all. But I can only ask Zenith to take action if I think theyve acted unfairly, 
and for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think they have.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman