DRN-2347741
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) irresponsibly gave him an 
overdraft. 
What happened
Mr A took out an overdraft in December 2018. He made several applications, until he was 
given a total overdraft of £5,000 in January 2019. Mr A says that at the time he was mentally 
unwell and doesnt feel Nationwide should have lent to him. He also says the overdraft was 
processed fraudulently by a partner. 
Nationwide have explained that all applications were made by Mr As online banking profile 
which would have needed Mr A to log in with specific details. The overdraft increases were 
directly associated to Mr As account, and so any spending would have been done by 
someone with the account details and card.
  
Regarding Mr As mental health, Nationwide said that applications are decided based on 
credit searches using credit reference agencies. Based on this information, the initial 
overdraft and subsequent increases were offered and approved. They explained that letters 
were sent each time, and that each increase would have been noted on Mr As statements. 
Letters were also sent to Mr A when his account had gone into arrears, and when he was 
deemed to be in persistent debt. At this time, Nationwide proposed a monthly payment which 
would help Mr A pay off the overdraft. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that the complaint should be upheld. She explained that 
we wouldnt be able to hold Nationwide responsible for Mr A giving details to a partner, as he 
had never made them aware of the situation. Neither did he make them aware of his 
vulnerabilities. 
She was also satisfied with the lending given in December, as the account was well 
maintained, and the overdraft was paid off shortly after it was given. 
 
However, in January there were repetitive applications with significant increases in just four 
days. No further checks were done, and our investigator felt they wouldve shown that Mr A 
was spending more than he was receiving, with his main income being benefit payments. 
In her view, Nationwide didnt make sure the lending was affordable or sustainable and she 
would have expected them to take a holistic look at Mr As income and expenditure before 
deciding to lend. 
She recommended that Nationwide re work the account to remove any interest and charges 
applied from January 2019. If this results in an outstanding balance, Nationwide should work 
with Mr A to arrange a suitable repayment plan to clear the debt. And if removing the interest 
and charges results in there being additional funds, this should be paid to Mr A.
 
Our investigator also recommended that Nationwide remove any adverse credit information 
from Mr As credit file since January 2019. 
Nationwide disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked over all the information, I agree with the investigator, and for the same 
reasons. I will explain why. 
Mr As borrowing started when he applied for a £15,000 loan in December 2018. At the time 
he told Nationwide his salary was £19,000 and the loan was approved. Nationwide says 
affordability for the overdraft was inferred from this amount. They explained that even though 
Mr A was receiving benefits, this wouldnt disqualify him for an increase and could be seen 
as discrimination. They said Mr As benefits only counted for a quarter of what he was 
receiving a month, and while he didnt have any regular credits going into his account, he 
didnt have regular debits either, with most of his expenditure being general, rather than 
necessary. 
They also said they had gathered data on the value of the funds going into the account over 
a three-month period, and for at least six months prior to January 2019, the average credit 
turnover had exceeded the values needed for them to offer a £5,000 overdraft. In addition, 
they explained that they use a third-party credit bureau called TAC to estimate a persons 
income. This service accesses different information from different sources including current 
accounts with other providers. If the TAC report comes back as low, Nationwide doesnt 
require any further proof of income. They also maintained that a large amount of purchases 
that took Mr A into the overdraft were general rather than bills.
 
As they determined the £5,000 was affordable using a credit-worthiness assessment which 
was fully compliant with CONC guidelines, they felt they had been fair to Mr A.
 
Ive thought about what Nationwide has said. Mr A applied for an overdraft and multiple 
applications were made. Four were made in December, and the overdraft was paid off at the 
end of the month. A further four applications were made in January, increasing the overdraft 
from £1,000 to £5,000 in the space of four days.
 
Mr A feels Nationwide shouldnt have approved the requests due to him being vulnerable at 
the time. While this may be the case, and while I can understand the difficult position Mr A 
would have been in, I cant see that Nationwide were ever made aware of Mr As health 
issues, or any issues regarding his partner. And as the applications were made online, its 
difficult to say that Nationwide should have spotted this might have been an issue during the 
applications themselves. So I cant say they have done anything wrong in relation to this 
point.
 
Turning to the lending itself  I have looked to see whether or not I think it was done 
responsibly.
In December, Mr A applied for a loan and an overdraft. The loan was approved, and the 
overdraft of £1,000 was paid in full at the end of the month. Even though Mr A carried out separate applications for this amount, it didnt increase significantly, and he was able to pay 
it off within a short amount of time. From his statements, it also looks as though Mr As 
account was stable, with regular credit being applied. So I dont think Nationwide were 
unreasonable in agreeing this overdraft. 
But I do have some concern about what happened after that. When looking at the 
applications that took place in January, I can see they were made for much higher amounts, 
ranging from £1,000 up to £5,000 within the space of four days. Given Mr A already had a 
loan for £15,000 I wouldve expected these requests to raise some alarm bells with 
Nationwide, especially considering his salary had seemingly stayed at £19,000.
 
Nationwide have said that credit checks would have been carried out to see whether or not it 
was responsible to lend. They said that overdraft applications are completed electronically, 
and nothing was flagged to show any missed payments or defaults on Mr As credit file.
 
But Nationwide needed to understand whether Mr A could repay what he was being lent 
within a reasonable period of time. I dont think that a credit check would necessarily have 
established this was the case  especially bearing in mind that his main credit commitment 
was the loan taken out in December and at best he would have only been required to make 
a single payment to it. I dont quite understand why Nationwide cross-referenced Mr As 
income declaration with a credit-reference agency either, bearing in mind the accuracy of 
any such cross-referencing. In addition, Mr As income was paid into his Nationwide account 
and so Nationwide were able to actually verify this. 
Looking at Mr As statements, I can see that there wasnt a steady stream of income, other 
than the benefit payments. This is not to say Mr A should have been denied an overdraft as 
he was receiving benefits, as that would be discriminatory. But I would expect Nationwide to 
take greater care to ensure any lending was affordable in these circumstances. And 
Nationwides own account statements show that Mr As expenditure exceeded what he was 
receiving. 
I also understand that most of Mr As spending was general rather than on necessary things 
like bills etc, but he was still in a position where he was spending more than he was 
receiving, and so I think Nationwide should have contacted him to, at the very least, ask 
about his income and expenditure. I cant see that his specific circumstances were ever 
taken into consideration. Equally I think that the sudden spate of applications within a short-
period of time also ought to have flagged to Nationwide that there may have been a problem 
and Mr A might have been building-up a debt that hed have difficulty repaying within a 
reasonable period of time.
 
Taking all of this into account, I think it was unfair and unreasonable of Nationwide to 
approve the overdraft requests in January 2019.
Putting things right
Usually when a business has done something wrong, I would ask it to put the consumer 
back into the position they would be in, had the wrong not taken place. However this is hard 
here as Mr A has had the funds from the overdraft and theyve been spent. So it wouldnt be 
possible to put him back into the position hed be in had he not been given the money. 
As Mr A had the funds and used them, I think he should have to repay what he borrowed. 
But as he shouldnt have been given any limit increases after the initial £1,000.00, I dont 
think its fair for him to pay the extra interest on this. So I think Nationwide should rework the 
account to remove interest and charges applied over £1,000 from January 2019. In other 
words, Nationwide needs to remove all the interest added on any balance above £1000.00.If doing this results in an outstanding balance, Nationwide should work with Mr A to arrange 
a suitable repayment plan to clear the outstanding debt.
But if removing all interest and charges results in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance, then the additional funds should be refunded to Mr A. Nationwide should also pay 
simple interest on the extra Mr A paid from the point his account balance wouldve been in 
credit. The interest rate should be 8% a year.*
Nationwide should tell Mr A what theyve done to work out the above. 
Nationwide should also consider removing any adverse credit information on Mr As credit 
file from January 2019. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Nationwide should rework the account to remove interest and charges applied over £1,000 
from January 2019.
If doing this results in an outstanding balance, Nationwide should work with Mr A to arrange 
a suitable repayment plan to clear the outstanding debt.
But if removing all interest and charges results in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance, then the additional funds should be refunded to Mr A. Nationwide should also pay 
simple interest on the extra Mr A paid from the point his account balance wouldve been in 
credit. The interest rate should be 8% a year.*
Nationwide should tell Mr A what theyve to work out the above. 
Nationwide should also consider removing any adverse credit information on Mr As credit 
file from January 2019.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021. 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman