DRN-2872652
The complaint
Mr M says Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) delayed the transfer 
(inwards) of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He says, because of the delay, HL 
caused him financial loss in terms of missed trading opportunity, and it delayed his 
resumption of drawdowns from the SIPP. 
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, he found as follows:
Mr Ms transfer request was submitted to HL on 18 March 2020; on 13 April 2020 he 
informed HL that it would need to contact the Trustee for the SIPP in the course of 
the transfer; initially HL informed Mr M that it had contacted the Trustee in April 2020 
and had not received a response until June 2020, then it recognised there was no 
record of such contact until June 2020; HL initially offered Mr M £150 for the 
inconvenience caused to him in the matter but it increased its offer by a further £100 
upon recognition of its delay in contacting the Trustee; but HL disputes Mr Ms claims 
because it says his SIPP was transferred in specie so the assets within it were 
unaffected by the transfer process.
The transfer was completed around September 2020.
The total of £250 offered by HL is reasonable and is in line with what this service 
would expect in terms of compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr M by 
its delay of the transfer process.
Mr M made the decision not to trade his SIPP investment during the transfer because 
he did not wish to complicate the process; he made the same decision, for the same 
reason, with regards to drawing down from the SIPP; there is no evidence that HL (or 
the Trustee) ever told Mr M that neither could be done during the transfer or that 
either would complicate the process, so both were his choices and HL cannot 
reasonably be held responsible for either.
Mr M has referred to a particular holding that could not be transferred because it 
could not be held in an HL SIPP. He says he had to liquidate the holding for this 
reason and that, but for the overall transfer delay (leading to a delay in notification 
that the holding could not be transferred), the holding could have been sold earlier 
and at a better price than it was eventually sold. He seeks compensation for this too. 
However, information about the funds that could be held on HLs platform was 
publicly available before the transfer took place and HL wrote to Mr M on 29 June 
2020 to say there was no rush in having to liquidate the holding, so he could have 
waited until its price had recovered. As such, HL is not liable for this issue.
Mr M disagreed with this outcome. He did not consider it unreasonable for him to have 
sought to avoid complications in the transfer process by refraining from trading in the SIPP 
and drawing from it  especially as he relied on HLs assurances at the time that the transfer 
would be completed quite soon. He said HL should have told him that he did not need to 
worry about complicating the process and that he could continue trading; he also said £250 
falls significantly short of compensating him for the trouble and upset HL caused him and 
that this service should not  allow them to get away with  such an unacceptable level of 
compensation. 
The investigator explained that he was not suggesting Mr Ms actions were unreasonable, 
but his view is that HL is not responsible for his actions; and, in response to Mr Ms get 
away with comment, he clarified that this service does not view compensation for trouble 
and upset in a punitive context. Mr M retained his disagreement with the outcome and asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator and I 
share the same reasoning he explained to Mr M.
The present state of affairs is as follows  HL does not dispute the delay caused to the 
inward transfer of Mr Ms SIPP; it does not dispute its responsibility for that delay; it does not 
dispute that Mr M deserves compensation for the trouble and upset the delay caused him; 
but it disputes liability for the financial losses Mr M has claimed. On his part, Mr Ms position 
is that he is entitled to compensation for trouble and upset beyond the £250 HL has 
offered/paid and beyond the investigators assessment; and he maintains that HL is liable for 
the financial losses he has claimed. The sum of these facts is that liability is not disputed, but 
redress is  and determining the latter is the task I am faced with.
Before treating the matter of redress, I consider that Mr M is entitled to a clear finding in this 
decision about responsibility for the delay he experienced. HLs concession of that 
responsibility is welcomed. However, irrespective of that, I am satisfied with available 
evidence  in the chronology of the transfer events and in correspondence related to the 
transfer process  that HL caused the delay, that it did so mainly between April 2020 (when 
it was made aware of the need to engage with the SIPPs Trustee) and June 2020 (when it 
eventually made its first contact with the SIPPs Trustee); that it initially misinformed Mr M 
about the delay and its cause; and that it eventually gave him accurate information about the 
delay and its cause.
Trouble and Upset
Mr M undoubtedly faced trouble and upset as a direct result of HLs delay. The delay in 
progressing and concluding the transfer had an impact on him, and I have seen evidence of 
this in his correspondence with HL at the time. In addition, and upon HL clarifying the delay 
and its true cause, the realisation that he had been previously misinformed would also have 
had an impact upon him. 
Unfortunately, the trouble, upset and inconvenience he faced cannot be reversed, but the 
approach within this service is to consider an award that would fairly reflect monetary 
compensation for such impact. This is not an exact science, but we follow an approach that 
aims at taking on board a complainants experience and at being reasonable (including the 
need to achieve a broad level of consistency amongst awards given in comparable cases). 
£250 is not inconsistent with the awards given in transfer delay cases like Mr Ms. Some awards in those cases, due to particular facts, might have been slightly higher or 
lower. In addition to consideration of our approach, I have also considered Mr Ms case on 
the basis of its own facts. I appreciate that his overall journey in the matter lasted from 
March to around August/September 2020. However, as I said above, HLs delay was mainly 
between April and June 2020. It misinformed Mr M between June (the same month as his 
complaint) and July 2020, then in August 2020 it clarified to him the delay and its cause. I 
have not seen evidence that it misinformed Mr M maliciously. The facts suggest that he was 
distressed mainly between June and July 2020, progress in August 2020 meant less cause 
for distress. 
Overall, and in these circumstances, I consider that £250 is a fair amount to compensate for 
the trouble and upset Mr M faced.  Available evidence is that he has already received this 
total amount, as he has confirmed being sent the £150 and £100 payments from HL.
As the investigator said, and as can be gleaned from my explanation above, this services 
approach towards compensation for trouble and upset in a complaint does not extend to 
punishing a respondent firm. We are not the industry regulator and we do not have a punitive 
remit.
Financial Loss
Mr Ms decision to refrain from trading and from drawing down from the SIPP, for fear of 
complicating the transfer process, is understood, but it is a fact to note that it was his 
decision. There is no evidence that he sought information, and was informed, in this respect 
from the transferor firm, from the Trustee or from HL  or that the decision was influenced by 
input from HL. 
There is also no evidence that, prior to the period of his complaint, he gave notice to HL that 
he had decided not to trade or drawdown pending completion of the transfer. As such, I do 
not accept his argument that HL should have told him that was not necessary. His decision 
was not something HL could reasonably have foreseen. It is not uncommon for SIPP holders 
to trade in the SIPP and/or draw from it during a transfer, so without notice that Mr M was 
doing the opposite it could not have known that was the case and could not have informed 
Mr M that his decision was not necessary.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I do not consider it reasonable to hold HL 
responsible for Mr Ms decision to suspend his use of the SIPP. I repeat, I understand his 
reasons. However, those reasons do not establish HLs liability for his decision. The lost 
trading and drawdown opportunities he claims resulted directly from his decision, so it 
follows that HL has no liability in those claims.
A similar finding applies to the holding he says was liquidated later than it could have been 
liquidated, but for the delay, and at a less favourable price. Information about what an HL 
SIPP could/could not hold was available to Mr M, through HLs website, prior to initiating the 
transfer. As the party seeking the transfer, it is information he ought reasonably to have 
considered checking at the outset. I accept that the delay in the transfer also delayed HLs 
indication that it could not accept the holding, but this is secondary to the point that Mr M 
should have known this at the outset. HL could not have reasonably anticipated it given that 
it had no prior notice or knowledge of the holding. Responsibility for his decision to initiate 
the transfer without such verification cannot fairly rest with HL. I am also persuaded by 
evidence that the timing of the liquidation was also Mr Ms decision and that it does not 
appear to have been a decision influenced by input from HL.
ConclusionHLs wrongdoing in the transfer process has been established, but Mr Ms complaint is not 
upheld because he has already been fairly compensated for the trouble and upset caused to 
him by the delayed transfer and I do not consider that there is merit in his claims for financial 
loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman