DRN-2104888
The complaint
Mr H complains about the sale of a private medical insurance policy by AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited. 
What happened
In July 2017, Mr H and his late wife took out a private medical insurance policy with AXA. 
Prior to that, theyd held cover under a group scheme with Mr Hs previous employer. 
When Mr and Mrs H took out their policy, they agreed to a policy term called the Six-week 
Safety net. This meant that AXA wouldnt cover treatment which the NHS could provide 
within six weeks. 
After making claims under the policy, Mr H made a complaint about the sale of the policy. He 
thought AXA shouldve made it clear that when major treatment was needed within a few 
days, he and his wife would need to meet the private cost themselves if they could have the 
treatment under the NHS within six weeks. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought AXA had explained 
the Six-week Safety net term when the policy was taken out. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says the following about the Six-week Safety net:
if the NHS can give you the hospital treatment you need within six weeks of when 
treatment should take place, then youll use the NHS. Otherwise, youll go privately.
And
What happens if I need emergency treatment?

As your policy includes the Six week Safety net, we will not cover urgent or emergency 
treatment anyway, as this means you will need treatment earlier than six weeks.
The Six-week Safety net term is an important aspect of the policy that shouldve been 
explained at the point of sale. Ive therefore listened to all the relevant phone calls, to see if 
the term was fully explained. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that AXA made it clear to Mr H that thered be no private cover 
for treatment if it could be done on the NHS within six weeks. In one call, Mr H wanted to 
clarify his understanding of the term. He asked if it would apply to more serious operations, 
such as a heart stent, and said that if the NHS could do the operation in two weeks, then (he 
understood) it would have to be done on the NHS. The adviser confirmed that was correct, 
and also pointed out that for a heart procedure or something urgent like cancer, the NHS 
would be more likely to see them in six weeks. Mr H confirmed he understood. 
After Mr H agreed to take out the policy, he then wanted to make some changes within the 
cooling-off period. He spoke with a different AXA adviser who set up the new policy, and that 
adviser also talked about the Six-week Safety net term and made Mr H aware of what that 
meant. The adviser also explained the policy included cancer cover, however he did point 
out that the NHS would normally respond within six weeks to a cancer diagnosis, though if 
they didnt, the policy would provide cover. Mr H again understood.
Mr H says he was given no indication by AXA that if emergency medical action was needed, 
he would need to meet the full cost if AXA could show that the same treatment could be 
done on the NHS within six weeks. Im afraid I disagree with Mr H on this point. Im satisfied 
this was made clear to Mr H during the calls, and that he appeared to understand this. 
I therefore dont find that AXA mis-sold this policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman