DRN-3039960
The complaint
 Mr D and Ms L complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) defaulted their account. 
What happened
 Mr D and Ms L had a joint Classic account with Lloyds. It had an overdraft facility of 
£2,500. In October 2017, they contacted Lloyds to say they couldnt afford to pay the new 
overdraft fees just introduced. They completed an income and expenditure form and sent it 
to Lloyds. They attended a meeting at a Lloyds branch on 3 January 2018. It was decided 
to pass their account to Lloyds collections department. In July 2018, the account was 
defaulted and passed to a debt collection agency. The balance was £2,425.56 debit. Mr D 
and Ms L are making payments of £10 per month. As at May 2020, the balance was 
£2,355.56 debit.
Mr D and Ms L complained that theyd never had a reply to their income and expenditure 
form and letter. And theyd written to Lloyds several times, without reply. They said they 
asked for the account to go to collections as that meant there wouldnt be any interest or 
charges. They were told to ignore any letters of demand. They didnt know that their 
account would end up in default as a result of being passed to collections. Now, they 
couldnt get a mortgage as a result of the default that was registered.
Lloyds said theyd followed their processes. The account was passed to their collections 
department to help customers in short term financial difficulty. The account was closed to 
given help to Mr D and Ms L in the long term, and any repayment plans should be agreed 
between them and the DCA.
Mr D and Ms L brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator said Lloyds had 
acted fairly. The income and expenditure form showed that their outgoings were more than 
their income. This meant that the overdraft couldnt be repaid, and Lloyds therefore took 
steps to recover the money. This meant closing the account and recording a default against 
Mr D and Ms L.
Mr D and Ms L disagreed and asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint.
 
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
There are valid arguments on both sides of this complaint. Mr D and Ms L have 
consistently argued their case. And while Lloyds have followed their processes here, 
strictly following a procedure or process can lead to an unfair outcome for a customer in 
the individual circumstances of their situation. I think thats whats happened here.
I can see that Mr D and Ms L realised in October 2017 that they were in financial difficulty 
 they said they couldnt afford to pay Lloyds new overdraft charges. So  they contacted 
Lloyds to see what could be done. They sent in an income and expenditure form. I havent 
seen this, but Lloyds notes say this showed that their outgoings were more than their 
income. Mr D and Ms L had a meeting with Lloyds at their local branch in January 2018 to 
discuss what could be done. It looks like Mr D and Ms L used the branch phone to speak 
to a Lloyds central department. It was then that it was agreed to pass the account to 
Lloyds collections department. It looks to me as though this was so interest and charges 
could be frozen pending an agreed way forward  in terms of payments. I say this 
because in Mr D and Ms Ls complaint  they say they tried to contact Lloyds several 
times about payments. And  I can also see from Lloyds records that they wrote to Lloyds 
on 17 January 2018, 5 February 2018, 27 March 2018 and 20 June 2018. So  they were 
trying to sort things out. Also, in Lloyds notes it records on 5 January 2018 Would like to 
have the pca (personal current account) be transferred to collections and stop the fees.
Its not at all clear that Mr D and Ms L were aware that a transfer to collections would lead 
to the account being closed and a default registered. I can see that in Lloyds notes it says 
on 5 January 2018 Removal OD facility (PCA)- read script and explained impact and 
default once it is with cdr (collections)  so it looks like Lloyds did advise Mr D and Ms L 
about the possibility of a default verbally. But equally  Mr D and Ms L told us they were 
told by Lloyds that they should ignore any letters of demand  while they agreed a 
repayment schedule. I havent seen any letters from Lloyds to Mr D and Ms L which says 
that a consequence of being passed to collections would be that a default would be 
registered. Nor have I seen a Notice of Default giving them any sort of warning about an 
impending default, and what they could do about it  which we would normally expect to 
see.
I can see that Mr D and Ms L wrote to Lloyds several times  on 17 January 2018, 5 
February 2018, 27 March 2018 and 20 June 2018. Each time, Lloyds notes on their file 
suggest that the collections process was underway and couldnt be stopped. On 17 
January 2018 the notes say, letter in from customer. On 5 February 2018  they say, 
letter in from customer with income & expenditure but no offer. On 27 March 2018 the 
notes say letter from customer. on its way to collections. On 20 June 2018, the 
notes say, letter from customer requiring response to their letter in Januaryon its way 
to collections. To me, this says that Lloyds were following their processes  and not 
listening to anything that Mr D and Ms L had to say. Nor  is there evidence that Lloyds 
wrote back to them, other than sending their standard collections letters.
But also  I do not see why the decision to send the account to collections was taken. Ive 
looked at Mr D and Ms Ls statements. In the period from 2012 to 2018, they kept within 
their overdraft limit of £2,500. There were regular credits in, and payments out. I agree the 
debit balance was hard core with an average balance of about £1,900 - £2,000, but the 
debt was being maintained and serviced adequately in my view. Given what the income & 
expenditure form showed, it would have been better to agree a loan to enable Mr D and Ms 
L to pay off the overdraft  or a payment plan to reduce the overdraft over a period at a 
reduced rate of interest. This is something that Lloyds might have agreed for customers in 
financial difficulty- rather than just sending the account into the collections process. Ive 
seen a reference that Mr D and Ms L didnt want a loan  but its not clear what the terms of 
this were, or whether it could be afforded.
So  it seems to me that Lloyds started a process which was probably not appropriate for 
Mr D and Ms L. And  it could have been stopped or adjusted, but it wasnt. And the result 
was an unfair outcome for Mr D and Ms L. Theyve clearly suffered as a result of what 
happened - they cant get a mortgage and Ive seen from their letters how upset they are. 
And so  my provisional decision is that Lloyds must put things right here. Lloyds should:
Remove the default from Mr D and Ms Ls credit file.
Agree a mutually agreeable repayment plan for the rest of the borrowing  on 
an interest free basis. Its for Lloyds to say whether the debt should stay with 
the debt collection agency for this purpose.Pay compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr D and Ms L agreed with the provisional decision, but Lloyds didnt - they said:
Mr D and Ms L were offered a loan of £2600 in October 2017  but declined it as they 
said it wasnt affordable.
In order to stop fees, the account needed to be transferred to Lloyds collection 
department  and this was asked for by Mr D and Ms L. 
The call in question between Lloyds and Mr D and Ms L in January 2018 -isnt 
available to listen to. But the notes say the income and expenditure form showed 
they couldnt afford the loan, or a repayment plan. So, the account was closed in 
order to agree to lower repayments. The standard script for the call included a 
statement that a default would be registered. Lloyds provided the script used at the 
time. It was unlikely that the call handler wouldve said to ignore any letters  but they 
may have said that if their situation improves, and a payment plan was agreed, then 
they could treat the letters for information.
A formal demand was issued on 1 May 2018 -and this said a default may be 
registered.
The income and expenditure form has been destroyed  its results are held on 
Lloyds systems. But they say it showed that Mr D and Ms L could not afford to repay 
the debt. 
Lloyds collections department doesnt reply to letters  they just issue standard 
letters and then correspond by phone  if customers call them. 
Mr D and Ms L still owe the debt  which shows they were, and still are, in financial 
difficulty  and this supports Lloyds actions.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive reflected and considered what Lloyds have said. I must make a decision here based on 
the balance of evidence  and how I think things played out here. And I still think that, on 
balance, Mr D and Ms L ended up with an unfair outcome.
My main concerns were that  Mr D and Ms L wrote to Lloyds on several occasions and 
didnt get a response to their letters  other than standard collections letters. It feels like a 
process was running  which couldve been stopped, or at least checked  but it wasnt. 
Lloyds have said they dont reply to letters from customers in their collections department  
and thats their commercial decision to make, but I think it led to an unfair outcome for Mr D 
and Ms L in the circumstances of their case.
Mr D and Ms L asked for the account to be sent to Lloyds collections department  to avoid 
charges and interest. Lloyds have also confirmed they did.  But its hard to believe that Mr D 
and Ms L wouldve asked for that if they understood that a consequence would be that they would be defaulted and have that on their record for six years  that would be perverse. So  
while I accept that Lloyds did read out a script that contained a reference to a default marker, 
Im not convinced that Mr D or Ms L understood or heard that  I suspect they were just 
happy to have charges and interest waived  which was their main aim at that time.
Ive not seen any letters at the time of the transfer to collections which mentions that a 
default might be registered. Lloyds have showed us a formal demand dated much later  
on 1 May 2018 which says: This account will be closed two months after you receive this 
letter if you do not make a payment of the full balance or the amount you are overdrawn, or 
come to an arrangement with us.
If your account remains in arrears then we may register a Default and instruct a debt
collection agency to recover the debt and/or take legal proceedings against you. But 
equally, Mr D and Ms L say that they were told to ignore any letters about their situation. 
Lloyds told us that this wouldnt have been said.
Lloyds have said to us that the debt wasnt affordable  neither was a loan  and the income 
and expenditure form showed that. But I still think my point about the conduct of the account 
remains valid  whatever the income and expenditure form showed (and of course we dont 
have a copy)  the fact is that the current account overdraft was being serviced OK  there 
were no excesses, and regular credits were being paid in. So  in the light of that, I doubt if 
Mr D and Ms L wouldve volunteered to go into a collections process if theyd understood it 
would lead to a default in their name. And - if Lloyds had replied to their letters, they may 
have found out more about Mr D and Ms Ls circumstances and possibly found out that there 
was a better way to deal with their situation.
As Ive said  this is a finely balanced decision, with valid arguments on both sides. But I just 
think that Mr D and Ms L were disadvantaged by entering a process which  once it had 
started, could have been stopped or changed if Lloyds had looked at and replied to their 
letters  but they didnt.
Putting things right
 I remain of the view that Lloyds should remove the entries form Mr D and Ms Ls credit file; 
pay £100 for distress and inconvenience and agree a mutually agreeable repayment plan. 
That said  Mr D and Ms L do still owe the money to Lloyds  and they should be aware that 
it will need to be repaid  theyve had the use of the money, and it isnt appropriate for it to 
be written off. 
(continued)
My final decisionI uphold this complaint. And Lloyds Bank PLC must:
 Remove the default from Mr D and Ms Ls credit file.
 Agree a mutually agreeable repayment plan for the rest of the borrowing  on an 
interest free basis. Its for Lloyds to say whether the debt should stay with the debt 
collection agency for this purpose.
 Pay compensation of £100 to Mr D and Ms L for distress and inconvenience.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman