DRN-2487666
The complaint
Mr I has complained about the way National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) has used 
the compensation it offered to settle his complaint about the mis-sale of a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside a credit card.
What happened
Mr I applied for a credit card online in May 2010 and on his application form indicated he 
wanted to take out PPI. In 2014 Mr I stopped making payments to the credit card account 
and the account was suspended with a balance owing by Mr I of £1,462.55.
In 2019 Mr I made a complaint about the PPI to NatWest through a claims management 
company. In May 2020 NatWest upheld the complaint that the PPI had been mis-sold and 
offered compensation of £931.10 to settle the complaint. 
Mr I accepted the amount offered online but says he was not told the compensation would 
be set against the debt that remained outstanding on the account. Mr I says he was unaware 
he had a credit card account with NatWest and that it was in arrears. 
NatWest has provided evidence to show the credit card Mr I took out was the account with 
the PPI attached to it. And NatWest says as there remains an unpaid balance on the 
account it is fair that it sets the compensation against the debt on the account. 
Mr I brought his complaint to this service as he wants NatWest to pay the compensation to 
him, as he maintains there is no active account or debt on a credit card in his name. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought it was fair for NatWest to use the 
compensation to reduce the debt on Mr Is account. Mr I didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has agreed to uphold Mr Is complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold, so in this 
decision Im not looking at how the PPI came to be sold. I am considering whether 
NatWests offer, and what it has done with the compensation, is fair.
Id expect that when a business has mis-sold PPI, it puts things right by putting the 
consumer as far as possible in the position they wouldve been in if they hadnt taken out the 
PPI. This means the business should calculate how much was paid in premiums and interest 
for the costs of the PPI. And if the consumer was out of pocket for any time, then the 
business should also pay some compensatory interest.
NatWest has used this approach and worked out that the compensation due, after tax, is 
£931.10. Mr I hasnt raised any issues about the amount of compensation offered, and the 
approach taken by NatWest appears to be what I would expect and is fair, so I wont 
consider the amount offered further. Mr Is complaint is that NatWest should not use the 
compensation amount to reduce the debt it says he still owes on the credit card account but 
should pay the compensation directly to him.
So in this decision I need to decide whether its fair and reasonable for NatWest to use Mr Is 
PPI compensation offer, to reduce the debt which remained unpaid after he stopped using 
the credit card account.
Mr I indicates that he doesnt have a credit card with NatWest and is totally unaware of any 
debt. Records have been provided to show that Mr I clearly did take out a credit card with 
NatWest in 2010 and with it he took out the PPI policy, the card account ended 5134. As he 
has not used the account since stopping payments to it in 2014, he may not recall much 
about the credit card account. 
But the information provided by NatWest shows he did apply for the credit card in 2010 and 
the payments by direct debit to the card, whilst it was active, were made from the same 
account Mr I provided information about for the payment of the PPI compensation. The PPI, 
for which Mr I wants the compensation paying to him, was attached to this credit card 
account. So if the PPI compensation is due to Mr I as he indicates, then the credit card 
account to which it was attached was also his account.
The records from NatWest show the last payment made to the credit card account by direct 
debit from Mr I was in March 2014. At this point, after the March 2014 payment, the balance 
owing on the account was £1,462.55. As Mr I made no more payments the account was 
suspended and NatWest records also show that recovery agents were appointed by the 
bank to try to obtain payment of the debt, but this was not successful. So the account was 
closed, with an unpaid balance still owing by Mr I of £1,462.55. Therefore NatWest says it 
has a fair right to set off the compensation due to Mr I against the debt he owes on the credit 
card account.
When considering any complaint, I need to take into account the relevant law and in this 
case that includes what is called the equitable right to set off. This allows people and 
businesses to set-off closely connected debts. This means that one person (A) can deduct 
from a debt that they owe another person (B), money which that person (B) owes to them. 
For the equitable right of set-off to apply, I must be satisfied that there is a close connection 
between the PPI compensation and the outstanding debt. I must also consider whether it 
would be unjust not to allow NatWest to set-off in this way. Both tests must be satisfied for 
me to conclude NatWest has an equitable right to set-off the PPI compensation against 
Mr Is outstanding debt on his credit card account.The PPI policy that Mr I had, was taken out with credit card ending 5134 and all the costs of 
the PPI were charged to this account and formed part of the balanced. The PPI policy was 
only associated with this credit card. Therefore there is a clear, direct connection between 
the PPI compensation NatWest owes Mr I and the outstanding debt on the credit card that 
Mr I owes to NatWest. 
I can see that during the time the credit card account was active the balance on the account 
was never cleared. When PPI is charged to an account, and later found to be mis-sold, it is 
deemed the PPI costs are the last item cleared from the balance, so the premium and 
interest caused by it, remains in the balance until the balance is paid off. At that point the 
consumer would be out of pocket for any costs of the PPI.
In this case, as Ive said, Mr I never actually cleared the full balance owing on the account 
whilst the account was open. So the full cost of the PPI, which is £931.10, would remain as 
part of the balance outstanding. The calculation undertaken by NatWest for the costs 
includes the PPI premiums and card rate interest on the premiums until this was suspended. 
Having considered all the facts I am satisfied that it is fair that NatWest uses the PPI 
compensation to set it off against the balance outstanding on the account. In effect this is 
only removing the PPI that remains in the account balance and was never paid by Mr I in this 
particular case. If Mr I were to be paid the compensation direct, he would be receiving a 
refund of amounts that he never actually paid.
I have taken into account all Mr Is comments about not being told that the compensation 
would be used in this way, to set off against the debt on the credit card account. But the 
original offer letter and acceptance form sent to Mr I clearly indicated that any arrears Mr I 
owed to NatWest would be cleared and that any arrears on the credit card balance would be 
taken into consideration. 
Also the online acceptance that Mr I completed required that a box had to be checked 
(infilled) before the form could be submitted. By checking this box, it confirmed that the 
declaration and acceptance had been read and Mr I agreed with it. And NatWest records 
show Mr I submitted the online form on 27 May 2020. So he did confirm at that point that he 
had read and agreed the declaration and acceptance. 
Mr I may not recall the credit card and the debt he owed on it, as he had not had use of the 
card nor paid anything towards the debt since 2014. But that does not alter the fact that Mr I 
did default in payments to the credit card account and the debt he left remains unpaid.
In summary I think it should have been clear to Mr I that he was accepting the offer, subject 
to any arrears being settled first by the compensation. And I am satisfied that NatWest could 
fairly use the right of set off in this case as the PPI was directly linked to the credit card 
account and debt that remained on it. So I think what NatWest has done with the 
compensation is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding Mr Is complaint as I think National 
Westminster Bank Plcs offer, and what it has done with the compensation, is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 Chris Fraser
Ombudsman