DRN-3075019
The complaint
Mrs F has complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with a 
claim under her home emergency policy.
Im aware that Mrs F is represented in this case, but for ease, I will only refer to Mrs F, who 
is the policyholder.
What happened
Mrs F contacted RSA when she found scalding water was coming from her taps. RSA sent 
an engineer, who said there were issues with the system. Mrs F asked for another engineer 
to be sent. The second engineer said the boiler and system needed to be replaced. A third 
engineer was then sent who said he could make a repair the following week, rather than the 
boiler being replaced. However, the engineer was then unwell, so a different engineer 
visited. This engineer also said the boiler and system needed replacing. Another engineer 
visited a few days later and also said a new boiler needed to be installed. Shortly after that, 
the engineer who had said he could carry out a repair phoned Mrs F to say he was available 
but Mrs F said she had already replaced the boiler.
When Mrs F complained, RSA said all the engineers who visited said the system wasnt in 
good condition. Although one engineer had said he could make a repair, he had also said 
the system was very old. When that engineer later contacted Mrs F, she said the boiler had 
already been replaced.
So, Mrs F complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
RSA had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. It had sent engineers, 
most of whom had said the boiler needed to be replaced. There was nothing to indicate that 
RSA had tried to prevent the engineer who said he could carry out the repair from doing so, 
but by the time the engineer was well again, Mrs F had already replaced the boiler.
As Mrs F didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator. I will explain why.
Mrs F has said that had she known the engineer who had said he could carry out a repair 
would follow up when he was well again, she wouldnt have replaced the boiler. Mrs F felt 
the recommendations of one of engineers was to benefit himself financially and would also 
have meant RSA didnt need to pay anything towards a repair. Mrs F wanted to be paid the 
amount it would have cost to carry out the repair.
When the engineers visited, all of them said the system was old and some of the engineers 
said the system needed to be replaced. One of the engineers said he could carry out a 
repair but was then unwell so wasnt able to visit as previously arranged. Following a visit 
from another of RSAs engineers, Mrs F decided to have the boiler replaced through a 
contractor she arranged herself. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that the advice from the engineers to replace the boiler 
was unreasonable based on their assessment of the system and its age. I also havent seen 
anything to suggest that this advice was given to save RSA the cost of carrying out a repair. 
Im aware that Mrs F was also unhappy with the quote provided by one of the engineers. But 
Mrs F wasnt required to accept the quote and didnt do so.
When the engineer got in touch with Mrs F, the boiler had already been replaced, so there 
was then no opportunity to carry out the repair. I can see that Mrs F might then have thought 
it was unnecessary to have fitted the new boiler. But RSA didnt fit the boiler and I havent 
seen anything to suggest it was involved in any discussions about doing so with the 
independent company who fitted it. 
I accept that Mrs F may have felt she needed to find a solution to the ongoing problem with 
the hot water and that as the main advice was to replace the boiler, that was the route she 
took. But RSA didnt prevent Mrs F from exploring other options, such as a repair, with an 
independent company if she thought that advice was wrong. I understand that when Mrs F 
spoke to the independent company about the issue, she discussed the option of replacing 
the same part that one of the engineers recommended, but that company was unable to 
locate a suitable part. Following this, Mrs F decided to replace the boiler through the 
independent company. 
I dont doubt that Mrs Fs preference was to carry out a repair and I can see that it was a 
time-consuming, and ultimately costly, experience to get the issue resolved. But thinking 
about the full circumstances of what happened, I dont uphold this complaint or require RSA 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman