DRN-4175466
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs T have worldwide travel insurance as a benefit with their bank account. They 
booked a multi-destination cruise which was due to depart in January 2023. 
On the day of the cruise departure they were told one of the port stops they were expecting 
as part of their trip had been changed. 
When Mr and Mrs T made a claim with the insurer it was refused. They say since the port 
stop was shown on the schedule and was cancelled by the operator once the vessel left the 
first port the claim should have been paid. 
Mr and Mrs T say the cancelled port stop meant that the particular country wouldnt be 
visited at all during the cruise and so it was effectively cancelled. Mr and Mrs T say the 
policy doesnt specify that if a port stop is replaced with another, then they arent liable to 
pay for the cancellation.  
Mr and Mrs T say they have been in similar situations previously and in those cases the 
insurer settled the claims. So they complained to UKI. 
UKI said since the port stop had been amended rather than cancelled there was no cover in 
the policy for that situation. And so it correctly declined the claim on that basis. 
Mr and Mrs T werent satisfied with the response from UKI so they referred their complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for them. She said having considered the evidence 
submitted by both parties she wasnt upholding the complaint. She said UKI had declined the 
claim fairly and reasonably, and in line with the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with the investigators outcome. They disagreed with her 
interpretation of the policy and said because the port stop was cancelled UKI should pay out, 
regardless of whether an alternative port stop was arranged. And if it wasnt going to pay 
then the policy should specify alternative port stops are excluded.
Since Mr and Mrs T didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold it. I understand Mr and Mrs T will be disappointed 
so Ill explain why. 
Id like to start by reassuring Mr and Mrs T that Ive considered all the information they have 
provided as well as their comments. But Ive focussed on whats relevant to the outcome of 
this complaint. 
Travel insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. Insurers are allowed to decide what 
risks they are prepared to cover. The policy documents form part of the insurance contract 
and set out what is and isnt covered. So my starting point is the policy which sets out a list 
of circumstances covered under the section headed Cruise Cover. 
The policy provides cover if;  
Your personal belongings are delayed by your transport operator until after your 
cruise has left port.
During a port stop you are unable to reach your cruise vessel before it leaves port.
You need to remain on shore to get an emergency passport, visa or driving licence.
You are confined to cabin by the cruise vessels medical officer.
A scheduled port stop is cancelled by the cruise operator after your vessel has left 
the first port. 
When a scheduled port stop is cancelled the policy says the insurer will pay, £150 for each 
port stop shown on your schedule that is cancelled by the cruise operator after your vessel 
has left the first port.
Mr and Mrs Ts claim flows from the notice received on the day the vessel left the first port. 
The notice says, we are in the need to adjust the itinerary. It goes on to detail an updated 
schedule at a different port stop than was initially communicated. And this situation isnt 
covered in the above list of circumstances covered by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs T say the claim should be paid since the original port stop was cancelled, and 
that is all thats required under the terms of the policy. And Ive thought about this carefully. 
The wording of the policy says a payment will be made where a port stop is cancelled by the 
cruise operator. But, here, the stop was replaced with an alternative so it was still taking 
place; albeit at a different destination.
The policy doesnt define cancelled, so Ive considered the ordinary, everyday meaning of 
the word; as well as the context in which its used in the policy. To cancel is to stop 
something from happening. And I dont agree thats what happened here. While the original 
port stop was no longer going ahead, it was replaced by a different one. So there was still a 
port stop  and Mr and Mrs T had the benefit of that stop. So I dont think UKI treated Mr and 
Mrs T unfairly or unreasonably in not accepting their claim under this term. 
I think the intention of this cover is to compensate travellers on board the ship for missing out 
on the enjoyment of parts of their trip due to changes that are made at short notice. But Mr 
and Mrs T didnt miss the enjoyment of part of the trip since they were able to stop at an 
alternative port. And I dont think its fair for them to have the benefit of a port stop and a 
payment under the terms of the policy.
 
I do understand Mr and Mrs Ts frustration at not being covered for everything by their 
insurance. When the port stop was adjusted I can appreciate their disappointment to learn 
the insurer wouldnt pay out, especially given it had paid out in similar situations previously. However I have looked at whether UKI has acted in line with the policy when dealing with Mr 
and Mrs Ts claim. Having carefully reviewed the terms and conditions I think it has.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman