DRN-3846875
The complaint
 A company which Ill refer to as T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC delayed opening a 
business account on its behalf and failed properly to compensate it for their delay. 
In bringing this complaint T is represented by its director who Ill refer to as Mr D, who in turn 
is represented by Ts recruitment director, Ms H.  
What happened
 The background to this case is well known to the parties so I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly:
On 4 May 2022 T visited a branch of Lloyds in order to open a business account in 
the name of one of its trading as brands. After some delay Lloyds did so - on 12 
July 2022. But in error, Lloyds omitted to add the trading as name to the new 
account. That meant the debit card, cheque and paying in books the bank issued to 
accompany the account did not bear the trading as name as was intended. On 17 
August T drew the error to Lloyds attention which they accepted and on 2 
September 2022 things were put right. 
T believed it should only have taken between four to six weeks to open the account it 
requested, whereas it took the bank significantly longer to do so. According to Ms H, 
the delay not only inconvenienced T but also caused financial loss. 
Lloyds accepted that they provided poor service to T. In particular, that at times in the 
process of opening the account T had to make a number of phone calls to the bank 
and T was given conflicting information which meant it had to re-submit opening 
documents which contributed to the delay.  
Initially, Lloyds paid T £211 to include £150 compensation for the inconvenience T 
experienced, as well as £61 for Ts telephone costs. Later, however, and in 
recognition of further poor service when the bank omitted the trading as name from 
the newly opened account, Lloyds increased their payment by a further £173, 
comprising £150 to acknowledge yet further inconvenience and £23 for Ts additional 
telephone costs. All together therefore, Lloyds paid £384 to T as compensation.  
T believed, however, that the amount Lloyds had paid fell short of what was needed 
properly to compensate it for the banks error and poor service. At the time T felt 
Lloyds needed to pay an additional £500.
Lloyds didnt agree and therefore T referred its complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ts complaint. In her consideration of whether Lloyds 
had paid the right amount of compensation to T she said shed borne in mind that 
the eligible complainant in this case was T rather than Mr D or Ms H personally. She 
said that meant any award of compensation had therefore to be paid to T rather than 
its employees since the purpose is to reflect the impact of Lloyds poor service on T 
rather than Mr D or Ms H personally.
Against that background the investigator believed Lloyds payment of £384  which included 
reimbursement of Ts costs  was fair and reasonable as she found no evidence T had 
suffered any financial loss. 
T didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
matter  saying in summary: 
The compensation paid by Lloyds does not fairly reflect the distress experienced over 
the four and half months the bank took to properly open the account. In particular, it 
caused Ms H a health issue, from which she had to take a day off work to recover.
Phone calls to Lloyds were lengthy, sometimes lasting between one to two hours. 
Having regard to this services guidance on our awards for distress and 
inconvenience, the inconvenience T experienced falls within the £300 to £750 band 
and was of such severity that it merits an award equivalent to the maximum level of 
£750.
The account that T asked Lloyds to open was intended for fundraising. But as the 
account wasnt opened correctly, personal bank account details had to be put onto 
Ts fundraising sites instead. But doing so gave an unprofessional appearance to Ts 
operation and as a consequence few people made contributions. 
In recent months, however, T received $10,000 USD in fund raising contribution 
(equivalent to approximately £9,000). That means, on average, T could have 
received £4,500 per month in contributions. Therefore, for Lloyds four-month delay in 
correctly opening the account for T, it would have lost £18,000 in contributions which 
the bank should refund.
Furthermore, a lot of Ts time was spent in an attempt to resolve matters with Lloyds. 
Those costs amount to £1,604. T should also be compensated by that amount too. 
Added together, the total compensation T should be awarded is £20,354, less the 
£384 compensation the bank has already paid.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As noted above Lloyds have acknowledged that the service, they provided to T was poor 
and, on that basis, they paid T £384 to cover the inconvenience this caused as well as the 
cost of Ts calls to the bank. So, at the centre of this dispute is whether Lloyds have sufficiently compensated T with their 
payment of £384. In other words, whether the bank should be required to do more, 
especially in light of what Ms H has told us about the financial loss T also incurred because 
of Lloyds poor service. 
To begin with, I agree with the investigator that this is a complaint brought to us by T the 
limited company which cannot suffer distress. With that in mind, to the extent that Ms H has 
told us about the distress she suffered and the health issue that resulted from it, 
disappointing though Im sure this will be for Ms H, Im afraid in light of who the eligible 
complainant is in this case, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award compensation for any 
personal distress caused by Lloyds poor service.  
That being said, to the extent that in circumstances where, as a result of something a bank 
has done wrong it causes the director or other employees of the company to be unable 
properly to conduct the companys affairs, then that company can, by extension be 
inconvenienced. 
I have therefore, thought about Ms Hs account of how the banks poor service meant the 
proper running of Ts affairs became impossible, and therefore by extension T was 
inconvenienced.
Ts inconvenience 
Its Ts case that the opening of the new account should have taken no more than between 
four to six weeks. As noted above, T first approached Lloyds to open the account on 4 May 
2022. The account was opened on 12 July 2022 which meant it took around 10 weeks to do 
so. But Lloyds omitted to add the correct name. And after T drew this to the banks attention 
on 17 August, Lloyds took another two weeks to correct their error, so that the account only 
became fully operational from 2 September 2022.
Although Lloyds havent commented on the time frame for opening new accounts, the four to 
six weeks suggested by T doesnt seem an unreasonable estimate. And Lloyds have 
acknowledged delay in any event. The crucial consideration, however, is what has been the 
overall impact of that delay.
 
During that period the bank took to open the account T said it made many phone calls to the 
bank and Lloyds acknowledges that. And I note when determining the level of refund to 
make for Ts phone costs, Lloyds internal systems recorded there were 303 minutes of calls 
received from T up to the time the account was opened on 12 July and a further 113 minutes 
of calls after the error it had made regarding the account name  the equivalent of seven 
hours of calls therefore. So, whilst Ms H is right, that these events happened over some 
months, the level of communication does provide some insight into the extent of the impact 
and hence the inconvenience T experienced. 
Also, in this connection Ive borne in mind Ms Hs testimony that in an effort to mitigate the 
effects of the absence of the account, T arranged for a personal account to be used in the 
interim. 
So, when considering inconvenience caused in the circumstances of this case, as well as 
the time T spent corresponding with Lloyds, its important to also keep in mind the steps that 
T took to mitigate the impact of the absence of the account. Put together, and after careful 
consideration, whilst Im satisfied the inconvenience does fall within in the correct range of 
our awards - £300 - £750 - Im not persuaded it was of such significance as to merit an 
award at the £750 level that T considers appropriate. Such higher awards as weve 
explained is more appropriate to significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. Ive not been persuaded that was the case here. Rather, on balance 
Im satisfied the level of inconvenience is more at the £300 level Lloyds has paid to T and Im 
not persuaded it should be increased further.  
Ts time management costs  
In addition to compensation for the inconvenience T was caused by Lloyds poor service it 
has told us also it is entitled to £1,604 which represents its own management cost dealing 
with the matter. 
But we wouldnt generally award compensation based on a companys or employees 
chargeable rate as Ms H would like to happen in this case. Rather we take into account the 
extent of the inconvenience thats been caused and make an appropriate award to reflect 
that level. I have done so, and for the reasons Ive already explained I consider the £300 
Lloyds already paid to be a fair and reasonable reflection of the inconvenience caused to T. 
Its worth bearing in mind also that in its dealings with Lloyds on this matter, T was dealing 
with its own private affairs. In other words, it wasnt acting in its professional capacity when 
trying to resolve things with Lloyds for which it might reasonably be expected to charge a 
fee. 
Ts financial loss. 
Ive thought about Ts case that it missed out on around £4,500 a month in fundraising 
contributions because of the delay in opening the account. 
T has said few people made contributions to the personal account when it was put in place 
to mitigate the absence of Ts account. However, Ive not seen enough substantive evidence 
of the contributions received into the personal account compared to those received into Ts 
account after it became fully operational. More importantly, however, a claim for a loss of 
contributions based on the difference between the two types of accounts is too speculative 
and therefore I dont think the evidence proves the banks failures caused the loss.  
In summary 
Having considered everything Ive been provided with; and thought carefully about the 
circumstances of this case, Im satisfied the payment of £384 Lloyds have made to T is an 
appropriate sum to compensate it for the costs incurred by T and inconvenience it has been 
caused by Lloyds poor service. 
  
My final decision
 For the reasons stated above I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Im satisfied 
that Lloyds Bank PLCs payment of £384 in compensation to T is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.  I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything more in respect 
of Ts complaint  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman