DRN-2961487
The complaint
Mr B complains about the decision by Astrenska Insurance Limited to stop offering his dental 
insurance policy. 
Any reference to Astrenska in this decision includes its agents. 
 What happened
Astrenska wrote to Mr B in August 2019 to advise him that it wouldnt be renewing his 
cover. 
Mr B didnt receive the letter as it was sent to the wrong address. He then received 
the letter in early October 2019, and became aware that his cover had ended on 31 
August 2019.
Mr B was unhappy with this as he wanted to have dental treatment. He then had that 
treatment, and paid for it himself.
Astrenska agreed to cover the treatment costs Mr B had incurred up to 25 November 
2019 in line with the policy terms. However, Mr B wanted Astrenska to cover further 
treatment he needed in 2020.
Our investigator thought Astrenskas offer to extend cover for treatment to 25 
November 2019 was fair in the circumstances.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy renews each year, which means Astrenska is required to provide cover for that 
12-month period. The policy says:
If We cancel the Policy We shall give You 30 days notice sent by first class post to Your last 
known address and e-mail address.
Arguably Astrenska didnt cancel the policy, it merely chose not to renew. Though I note that 
Astrenskas wording in its notification about this to Mr B did refer to his policy being 
cancelled. So I think it was reasonable for Mr B to assume that Astrenska had cancelled his 
cover.
Astrenska made a commercial decision to withdraw the policy from the market. It was 
entitled to do this, and the policy terms allowed it to cancel the policy.
The 2018/19 policy year was due to end on 31 August 2019. Astrenska wrote to Mr B in 
August 2019 to make him aware that it wouldnt be renewing his cover. It therefore didnt 
give him the stated 30 days notice, and unfortunately Astrenska had the wrong house 
number recorded for Mr B on its system. Therefore the letter didnt reach Mr B. 
Mr B makes the point that Astrenska usually corresponded with him by email about his 
renewal. Its unfortunate that Astrenska didnt do so here, particularly since the policy terms 
say that it would notify the policyholder by email (as well as post) if it decided to cancel the 
policy. 
Its therefore apparent that Astrenska made errors here. 
When a financial business makes an error, the aim of this service is to require the business 
to place the consumer in the position they wouldve been (as far as possible), if not for the 
error. 
Mr B only learnt about Astrenskas decision not to offer him cover at renewal in 
early October 2019. He hadnt had any treatment at that point, but then arranged to see his 
dentist. Between 11 October 2019 and 25 November 2019, Mr B had treatment costing 
£1,026. If this treatment had taken place whilst the policy had been in force, he couldve 
claimed 80% of the costs (£820.80), in line with the policy terms. 
Due to the mix-up over notifying Mr B about the end of his policy, Astrenska offered to pay 
him the £820.80. I agree with our investigator that this was reasonable. I say that because 
the treatment took place over a longer period than 30 days. It therefore seems to me that 
Mr B is better off as a result of Astrenskas offer than he wouldve been if hed been given 30 
days notice that Astrenska wouldnt be renewing his policy. Its for this reason that Im not 
going to require Astrenska to add interest to its offer.
Mr B has provided evidence from 2020 that he needed treatment for two teeth (teeth 
numbers 37 and 21). The estimated cost of that treatment was £1,022. Mr B wants 
Astrenska to pay 80% of this cost, as his dentist has confirmed that those teeth were in need 
of restoration since his first visit in 2019.
I assume the first visit referred to by Mr Bs dentist took place in October 2019, as the 
information from that time refers to a new patient assessment.
I can understand Mr Bs argument here. It was apparently identified in October 2019 that 
teeth numbers 37 and 21 needed restoration. The policy had ended by then, and so if Mr B 
were to take out dental cover elsewhere after that point, those issues with his two teeth 
would be considered pre-existing and likely wouldnt be covered. 
However, its also the case that Mr B was aware that his cover had ended before he first 
visited the dentist. He couldve taken out a new policy before hed been to see the dentist 
and it was found that teeth 37 and 21 needed restoration. 
Also, even if Mr B had received 30 days notice from Astrenska that his cover would be 
ending on 31 August 2019, I cant be sure that he would have had this treatment before the 
cover ended. When he had his dental treatment in October 2019, this took place over a six-
week period. I havent seen any evidence to support that the dentist wanted to do the 
treatment confirmed in 2020 to teeth numbers 37 and 21 in October 2019. Consequently, I dont think itd be reasonable for Astrenska to pay for the treatment needed 
in 2020.
Mr B says he thinks Astrenska ought to have helped him find a new insurer after they 
decided to withdraw his cover. I agree with our investigator that Astrenska was under no 
obligation to do this.  
Mr B also says that Astrenska collected a premium for the 2019/2020 policy year. I 
understand that was collected in error and was refunded to Mr B soon after, which seems 
reasonable.
Overall, I think Astrenska was entitled to cancel the policy. However, it failed to notify Mr B 
about that decision in line with the policy terms. Though Im satisfied that it put matters right 
by agreeing to cover the treatment costs that Mr B incurred over a six-week period after the 
policy had ended. 
My final decision
Astrenska Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr B £820.80 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Astrenska Insurance Limited should pay Mr B £820.80. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman