DRN-3230086
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund to him the money that he paid for 
some goods. 
What happened
Mr Y made two payments from his bank account with Starling Bank to an overseas merchant 
for some goods in February 2021. The payments were for £173.28 and £517.68 but he says 
that he didnt receive the goods. He made a chargeback claim to Starling Bank but it said 
that the evidence didnt meet the evidentiary threshold required to dispute the transactions. 
He complained to Starling Bank but it said that it wasnt able to uphold his complaint 
because it had followed its policy and guidelines. Mr Y wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service. He says that he also made a payment to the merchant from his 
account with another bank and it has refunded the payment to him.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that Starling 
Bank was suspicious of the evidence provided so was within its rights not to put the 
transaction up for processing and he didnt consider that it had done anything wrong. Mr Y 
has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that if a 
chargeback claim had been made it would have been successful.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
if a consumer disputes a card payment, the card issuer may be able to make a 
chargeback claim to the merchant under the relevant card scheme to try to settle the 
dispute;
theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made, but if the 
right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules and if 
theres a reasonable prospect of success, I consider it to be good practice for a 
chargeback claim to be made; 
Mr Y had previously made other chargeback claims to Starling Bank which had been 
successful so when it received two more chargeback claims in March 2021 I consider 
that it was reasonable for it to require Mr Y to provide additional information before a 
chargeback claim was made;
Starling Bank says that a chargeback claim was not raised due to its concerns about 
the claim based on the evidence that Mr Y had provided, the past history of his 
account and because it was suspicious of the transactions;
Im not persuaded that there was a reasonable prospect of chargeback claims being 
successful based on the evidence that Mr Y had provided and I dont consider that 
Starling Bank acted incorrectly in these circumstances by not making chargeback 
claims;
Mr Y says another bank has refunded a payment that he made to the merchant but 
that was a decision for that bank to make and I dont consider that thats enough to 
show that Starling Bank should have made chargeback claims for the payments that 
Mr Y made to the merchant; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Starling Bank to refund to 
Mr Y the payments that hes claimed, to pay him any compensation or to take any 
other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman