DRN-3292848
The complaint
Mr R on behalf of business S has complained about the way Aviva Insurance Ltd handled 
its request for further information for a commercial fleet vehicle insurance policy he held with 
it.
What happened
Mr R held a commercial vehicle insurance policy with Aviva. Aviva said that Mr R needed to 
provide an operators licence (O licence) or a letter of exemption from The Vehicle and 
Operator Services Agency (VOSA) in order for the policy to continue. 
Mr R said that as the vehicle is a showmans vehicle, it was exempt from requiring an O 
licence. He provided additional information to support his view. 
Aviva didnt change its position and reiterated that Mr R would require either an O licence or 
an exemption letter from VOSA. 
Mr R raised a complaint with Aviva but it maintained its decision. However, as the renewal 
date was approaching it said it would allow the policy to renew on the understanding Mr R 
would either apply for an O licence within four weeks of the renewal date - or provide proof 
that the vehicle(s) used were exclusively for showmans work (a VOSA exemption letter). 
Mr R remained unhappy and asked us to look at things for him. Our Investigator found that 
much of the communication between the parties centred on whether a showmans vehicle 
required an O licence. And having considered the relevant legislation, the Investigator 
explained that this issue didnt seem to be in dispute. The issue was whether the vehicles Mr 
R had under the policy with Aviva without an O licence were being used solely as 
showmens vehicles. 
The Investigator thought Aviva had acted reasonably. It said the use of Mr Rs vehicles was 
to provide light, sound & staging equipment and to transport goods for hire or reward or in 
connection with a trade or business  so it didnt satisfy the definition of a showmans 
vehicle. 
The Investigator thought it was therefore reasonable of Aviva to ask for a letter of exemption. 
Although Mr R had experienced difficulty obtaining what Aviva asked for from VOSA (now 
Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency, so DVSA), the Investigator didnt find this was 
something Aviva was responsible for. 
The Investigator thought Aviva had been pragmatic in its approach when renewal was 
approaching in offering a further four weeks for Mr R to provide what it needed for cover to 
continue. 
Mr R didnt agree. He said it wasnt possible to provide a letter from VOSA. He doesnt know 
how any showmen could satisfy Avivas requirements. 
As Mr R didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurer is entitled to make reasonable enquiries and ask for additional information to 
satisfy itself of the risk it is undertaking. Aviva explained to Mr R that on the back of a 
business review the year before, it was carrying out checks to ensure O licenses were in 
force where required, and if clients are exempt, to see evidence of this.
I understand Mr R says he couldnt provide Aviva with a letter from VOSA and so he had no 
other options. He remains of the view that the vehicles did not require an O licence. 
I think Aviva was clear in its response to Mr Rs complaint that the issue was whether the 
vehicles Mr R held cover for under the policy - which didnt have an O licence - were being 
used solely as showmans vehicles. And to satisfy Aviva, it asked for a letter of exemption 
from VOSA as evidence that Mr Rs vehicles didnt require an O licence. 
I appreciate that Mr R says he couldnt provide Aviva with what it wanted. But I cant say that 
Avivas request was unreasonable because of difficulties obtaining information from another 
party (VOSA). I think Aviva treated Mr R fairly and as it would any other customer in the 
same position. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R. But I dont think Aviva needs to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman