DRN-2901679
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that Funding Circle Ltd unfairly declined its 
request for a loan under the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme.
Mrs P is the companys director and brings the complaint on its behalf. She is represented in 
doing so by Mr D.
What happened
P approached Funding Circle with a view to taking out a loan under the Coronavirus 
Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) Scheme in May 2020. The company had an existing 
loan with Funding Circle and wanted to refinance this with a CBIL. The outstanding capital 
balance on the existing loan was around £85,000. 
Funding Circle declined Ps request for a CBIL. Mr D complained about the decision and that 
the rationale hadnt been shared. Funding Circle maintained its decision and said that as 
lending under the CBIL Scheme was capped at 25% of the applicants turnover, P wasnt 
eligible to borrow the amount required to refinance its existing loan. But it said that, subject 
to other requirements, P could apply for a lower CBIL amount up to the turnover limit.
Mr D remained unhappy so he referred the matter to us and it was reviewed by one of our 
investigators. She said that the 25% turnover limit was one of the requirements that lenders 
could apply under the rules of the CBIL Scheme. So she didnt think Funding Circle had 
done anything wrong in declining Ps application on the basis that it didnt meet this 
requirement. 
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view. He said that Funding Circle had declined the CBIL 
request because it wanted to default Ps other loan. So he asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint and it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why. 
Under the rules of the CBIL Scheme, the amount borrowed could not be more than:
Double the applicants 2019 wage bill;
25% of the applicants 2019 turnover; or 
The applicants liquidity needs for the next 18 months (for small or medium-sized 
enterprises, like P). 
Lenders had some discretion under the rules of the Scheme to choose which of these 
parameters it wished to apply. Funding Circle has confirmed that it assessed all applications 
against the turnover requirement. 
P wanted a CBIL to refinance its existing loan, which had an outstanding capital balance of 
around £85,000. So it would have needed an annual turnover in the region of £340,000 to be 
eligible to borrow the amount required. As its 2019 turnover was significantly less than this, 
Funding Circle declined the application. This decision was in line with the rules of the 
Scheme as summarised above, so I dont think Funding Circle made an error. 
I note what Mr D has said about Funding Circles motivation for declining the CBIL. But as 
set out above, I think Funding Circle was entitled to decline Ps application on the basis it 
did. And the decision was taken in line with Funding Circles standard criteria  so P wasnt 
treated any differently to other applicants.
I can also see that Mr D was unhappy that, initially, Funding Circle didnt explain the reasons 
for its decision. It wasnt required to do so, but nonetheless it did provide an explanation to 
Mr D when he raised his enquiries. And although Ive also noted that a number of other 
factors were also touched upon within Funding Circles exchanges with Mr D about the 
matter, I think the primary reason as above was made clear soon after the decision was 
made.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Funding Circle did anything wrong in how it 
handled Ps CBIL application  so Im not requiring it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman