DRN-1226135
 
The complaint
Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a regular monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a mortgage in December 1987. He says the bank 
didnt explain anything about the policy to him; it was added to his account without either his 
knowledge or his consent. 
What happened
In December 1987 Mr S purchased a PPI policy when he took out a mortgage. The policy 
cost no more than £13.50 each month and wouldve provided a monthly benefit to cover his 
mortgage payments for up to 12 months following a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr S complaint. Mr S disagrees, so the complaint comes to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding Mr S 
case. And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
The mortgage and the PPI were taken out more than 30 years ago and the policy was 
cancelled more than 20 years ago when the mortgage was redeemed in September 1998. 
So unsurprisingly neither party has been able to provide much detailed information about the 
sale. And in these situations, I have to look at what I think is more likely to have happened.
I dont doubt that Mr S has given his honest recollections from 1987 but I have to accept that 
after all this time memories can and do fade. And I just dont have any evidence whatsoever 
to suggest that the policy wasnt optional  that Mr S didnt have a choice in taking it out. So 
with the very limited information I do have and from what I know about Lloyds PPI sales 
around this time, I cant fairly say that Mr S didnt have a choice about taking it.
Lloyds wouldve recommended the PPI to Mr S, I say this because this is how it conducted 
its PPI sales through its building society brand at this time. So it had to take adequate steps 
to make sure it was suitable for Mr S. I dont know what the adviser said to him about PPI or 
whether Lloyds did take adequate steps. But I dont need to make a decision about this. 
Because even if the bank didnt take adequate steps, I think the PPI was suitable for him for 
the following reasons:
 
Mr S met the PPIs eligibility requirements, so was eligible for the policy. And Ive set 
out the PPIs costs and main benefits above.
 Mr S was working at the time and says he had some occupational benefits from his 
employer if he were off work sick. But if Mr S couldnt work, nothing Ive seen 
suggests its likely he couldve paid the monthly mortgage and his other living costs 
once any work benefits he may have had expired.
 
Also, the mortgage was over a number of years and the PPI wouldve paid the 
monthly mortgage costs for up to 12 months for each successful claim  and on top 
of any other cover he had. So I dont think Mr Ss existing cover wouldve made the 
PPI unsuitable. And the policy wouldve allowed him to use any savings he had for 
other important things at what wouldve been a particularly stressful time.
 
Mr S says his family wouldve helped with his mortgage payments if hed not been 
working. Whilst I understand the point he seeks to make, there could be no 
guarantee that his family wouldve been in the financial position to support him at 
some unknown point in the future.
 
There wasnt anything in the PPI that wouldve made it difficult for Mr S to claim. He 
told us he was employed and in good health  so he wouldnt have been affected by 
any restrictions or limitations in the policy relating to unusual work or known health 
issues.
 
I dont know that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr S before he 
agreed to purchase it. I dont know if he was told it would cost £13.50 each month 
until after the mortgage had started. For this reason Ive considered whether clearer 
information about the cost wouldve affected his decision to purchase the policy. But 
he had chosen to take out the policy, knowing he would have to pay something for it. 
The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So, I think it unlikely 
he wouldve made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
 
So taking everything into account, I think the PPI was suitable for Mr S.
Lloyds needed to properly explain the PPIs costs, benefits, exclusions and limitations. It 
hasnt told us anything that shows what was actually said to Mr S about this. So I cant say 
its likely Lloyds did give Mr S everything he needed to know before deciding to take PPI.
But did Mr S lose out as a result - would he have taken the PPI if Lloyds had properly told 
him about it?
Ive explained why I think the PPI was suitable. Given his circumstances at the time I think 
Mr S wouldve thought the PPI gave important cover to protect the repayments on his home. 
And that its costs and benefits were competitive and gave peace of mind. So I dont think 
Mr S lost out  I think he wouldve taken the PPI if hed been given enough proper 
information about it. And as this was a regular monthly premium policy, if Mr S decided that 
the cost was unaffordable, or that he no longer wanted the policy, he couldve cancelled it 
without penalty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr S complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman