DRN-3251158
The complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly closed his account and reported a 
default on his credit file 
What happened
Mr R had a personal loan with Lloyds with repayments of £156.72 per month.  In December 
2018, his direct debit payments failed, and his partner paid a sum of £300 to the account in 
January 2019 which Mr R says was intended to cover the missed payment for December 
and the due payment for January. However, the payment was credited to the account as an 
overpayment, leaving Mr R in arrears for December. His January direct debit then also 
failed. Mr R says that Lloyds didnt tell him that his payment hadnt paid off the arrears, or 
that even if it had, it would have left a shortfall of £13.34. Lloyds applied a missed payment 
marker and a default to his account, which he says he was also not told about. 
A further direct debit failed in April but Mr R says Lloyds didnt make him aware of that. 
In summer 2019 Mr R became unwell and was unable to work. 
Due to his illness, he says he didnt open or respond to his mail for a period of time.  In 
November 2019 when he started to feel better, Mr R opened a letter from Lloyds which 
advised that he had defaulted on his loan repayments, and his loan account had been 
closed.
 
Mr R made contact with Lloyds. They said that the default was applied because he hadnt 
maintained payments, and he had missed payments in the previous January and April. 
Mr R explained that he hadnt had notification of the January default, possibly because he 
had moved to a new house and Lloyds hadnt updated his address. He told them he had 
been unwell recently but was in a position to make the payments up now. He asked for the 
default to be removed. 
Lloyds advised that the default couldnt be removed, and the debt may be sold to a debt 
recovery company. 
Mr Rs partner complained to us on his behalf.  
Our investigator upheld Mr R s complaint.  She thought that Lloyds could have done more to 
assist Mr R and recommended Lloyds do the following:
Remove the default(s) relating to Mr Rs loan account.
Remove the missed payment marker for January 2019s repayment along with any
arrears which have been incurred since this time.
Remove any missed payment marker for April 2019s repayment  as this should be
recorded as a late  along with removing any arrears which have been incurred since 
this time.
Remove any interest or charges added to the account relating to January 2019 and 
April 2019s missed payments, as well as the arrears that have been incurred since 
this time.
Reconstruct the loan agreement as it was, from this point forward.
By way of an apology, pay Mr R £150 for the trouble and upset hes been caused, 
particularly given the added stress this wouldve caused due to his mental health 
issues. 
Lloyds agreed to pay the £150 in respect of failing to update the address on Mr Rs file, but 
disagreed with all the other recommendations and so the complaint has come to me to 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding this complaint and I will explain why below. 
I have seen all the information provided by Lloyds, including the system notes, and listened 
to the calls with Mr R and his partner. I have considered whether Lloyds have acted fairly 
towards Mr R. 
Reporting of the default
I can see from the loan statement that Mr Rs repayments first failed in December 2018 and 
again in January 2019. Although Mr R made a payment of £300 at the beginning of January 
which he says was intended to cover December and January payments, it was not quite 
enough to cover the two months payments, and as Mr R did not tell them otherwise, Lloyds 
treated it as an overpayment (or partial early settlement payment) rather than an arrears 
payment and so the account remained in arrears. 
Lloyds say that the loan conditions make it clear that any payment made will be treated as 
an overpayment unless they are notified otherwise. 
The loan terms say:
To repay early part of the money owing to us under your agreement you must give us notice
and make the partial repayment within 28 days of us receiving that notice. Alternatively, 
where you make a repayment you are not required to make under this agreement as a 
monthly payment, we will take this as notice you wish to use that amount to partially settle 
the amount you owe us
So, I can see why this payment was treated by Lloyds as an overpayment. I also note that at 
the time it was made, the December direct debit had failed twice but was in the process of 
being presented a third time, and so the account was not showing arrears. However, Im 
satisfied that as Mr R was not aware of that, and he was making a payment of roughly the 
same amount as the two months payments, it was intended to cover the arrears and the 
January payment.  Whilst I appreciate that Mr R should have told Lloyds that this was his 
intention, equally, if the letters sent by Lloyds to Mr R in January about the arrears and 
default had been sent to the correct address  and Lloyds accept they made an error there  
I am satisfied that Mr R would have contacted Lloyds to discuss the arrears. His intention in 
making the £300 payment would have been made clear to Lloyds and he would have been 
able to make up the small shortfall of £13.34. This opportunity was lost because of Lloyds 
sending the letters to the wrong address, and so in view of that, Im satisfied that the fairest solution would be for Lloyds to remove the default applied in respect of the December and 
January arrears. The late payment marker for January, however, was correctly applied. 
I understand that Lloyds say that they sent text messages to Mr R in January about his 
arrears, but I have not seen evidence of which number these were sent to and Mr R has said 
that he hasnt received them.   
In respect of the further missed payment in April, Lloyds havent provided us with any 
evidence that they contacted R about this in April. I can also see that Mr Rs partner made 
the payment later in April 2019 and it was applied to the loan account in May.  First contact 
was made in June 2019 and so whilst Im satisfied that a late payment marker should be 
placed on the account, I dont think it was fair for Lloyds to treat the account as in arrears 
given that they hadnt notified Mr R. 
Mr R missed a further payment in October 2019 when he started to experience health issues 
and he wasnt dealing with his post and wasnt managing his payments effectively. Lloyds 
decision to apply the default following this was affected by the fact that there was missed 
payments in January and April and the account was in arrears. If, however, there had been 
better communication in January and April with Mr R about his account, the position would 
have looked different in October with that being the first missed payment and missing that 
payment in October may not have resulted in the default being applied.  
Lloyds say that letters were sent to the correct address advising Mr R of his arrears in June 
2019 and that the position with regard to the arrears would have been clear to him then. Mr 
Rs testimony is that he has been unwell since 2017 and had started to experience an 
exacerbation of illness in June 2019 resulting in periods of time off work in June and 
October. It was during this period that he was not dealing with his affairs properly. Whilst I 
agree with Lloyds that it is Mr Rs responsibility to deal with his post, and accept they were 
not aware of his difficulties at the time, it doesnt change the fact that he wasnt coping with 
dealing with his affairs, and consequently was not aware of the arrears. He was also of the 
view that he had made the payments for December and January, albeit not on time, and so 
was understandably surprised by the letter he opened in November. 
I agree with the investigator that overall Lloyds could have taken more proactive steps earlier 
to assist and support Mr R and that the incorrectly addressed letters started a chain of 
events that led to the default being applied. 
Lloyds have accepted their failings in respect of sending letters to an incorrect address and 
have agreed that £150 compensation is fair for the inconvenience caused, and I agree that 
this is fair compensation for that. 
 
Putting things right
In view of the reasoning I have given above, I agree with the investigators recommendations 
for putting things right and direct Lloyds to do the following:
Remove the default(s) relating to Mr R's loan account.
Remove the missed payment marker for January 2019s repayment along with any
arrears which have been incurred since this time.
Remove any missed payment marker for April 2019s repayment  as this should be
recorded as a late  along with removing any arrears which have been incurred since 
this time.Remove any interest or charges added to the account relating to January 2019 and 
April 2019s missed payments, as well as the arrears that have been incurred since 
this time.
Reconstruct the loan agreement as it was, from this point forward.
By way of an apology, pay Mr R £150 for the trouble and upset caused by the 
incorrectly addressed letters and the additional stress this wouldve caused due to his 
mental health issues. 
 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I am upholding Mr Rs complaint and directing Lloyds Bank PLC to 
undertake the actions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman