DRN-4432449
The complaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc was irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Mrs S was provided with a credit card account by HSBC. She says that she quickly reached 
the credit limit and that this was then increased on several occasions until it was over 
£8,000. Mrs S says that had HSBC checked her credit file it would have seen her other 
debts and that she had previously been bankrupt. She was operating in her overdraft and 
incurring fees for this. Mrs S says she wasnt working at the time and her only income was 
the family allowance meaning she had no reasonable way of repaying the credit.  
HSBC said that due to the time that had passed since Mrs S opened her account it no longer 
had the information available to provide its business file. 
Our investigator said that given when the account was opened (in 2006) HSBC had very little 
information about the account. She said we didnt have the opening credit limit or details of 
any credit limit increases. She explained that businesses are only required to hold records 
for six years and given the time that had passed since the account was opened, we couldnt 
expect HSBC to still have the records available. She said that if further evidence was 
provided about the account and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time this could be considered 
but based on the information provided, she didnt have enough to say that HSBC had acted 
unfairly or made an unfair lending decision.  
Mrs S provided further evidence in support of her claim that the lending was unaffordable. As 
this didnt change our investigators position, and Mrs S disagrees with the outcome, this 
complaint has been passed to me an ombudsman to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances. 
Unfortunately, due to the timing of the issues raised in this complaint the evidence provided 
has been very limited. HSBC has explained that it no longer holds the relevant information to 
show the checks undertaken when the credit card account was provided, and I dont have 
details about the dates of the credit limit increases. While this is frustrating, given this 
complaint is about a credit card provided around 20 years ago, and HSBC is only required to 
hold its records for six years, I do not find I can say that it has done anything wrong by not 
being able to provide a business file for this complaint.
As I cannot say what checks were carried out before the lending was provided, I have looked 
at what Mrs S has submitted to see if this suggests that reasonable checks at the time would 
have raised concerns about the affordability of the credit. Mrs S has provided a copy of a 
credit card statement from March 2001 showing a credit limit of £500. Mrs S has also 
provided copies of bank statements from around the time which shows she had an overdraft 
facility of £250 and that she was overdrawn on her bank account and incurring fees as a 
result. She has also confirmed that she wasnt earning an income at that time as she was a 
housewife looking after young children and she has provided copies of her tax credit 
information.
I have taken all of the above into account but for me to uphold this complaint I would need to 
be satisfied that at the time the credit card application was submitted, reasonable checks 
would have shown that the limit provided at that time wasnt affordable. I would also need to 
then understand how the account was managed and what reasonable checks would have 
shown at the time of any credit limit increase. As I dont have the information to show when 
the account was opened or the credit limit applied, and I havent clear details to understand 
what reasonable checks would have revealed had Mrs S been asked about her financial 
circumstances at the time, I do not find I have enough evidence to be able to say that the 
lending decision was irresponsible.
So, while I acknowledge that Mrs S has provided evidence that suggested she may have 
been struggling in 2001, I do not find that this is enough to say that this complaint should be 
upheld. Therefore, while I know this will be disappointing to Mrs S, I do not find I have the 
evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not have enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman