DRN-4275172
The complaint
Mr M complains that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (Fund Ourselves) hasnt correctly
updated his credit file to reflect he withdrew from two loans. Mr M says these loans shouldnt
be reported on his credit file.
What happened
In total, Mr M says he was advanced two loans from Fund Ourselves. The first loan was for
£280 and was advanced on 8 December 2021 and he said he withdrew from the loan
agreement on 14 December 2021. The second loan begun on 18 December 2021 for £350.
Mr M says for this loan he also withdrew within the 14-day cooling off period on 
31 December 2021.
Mr M then raised a complaint to Fund Ourselves because in his view, it hadnt complied with
Section 66A (7) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mr M is unhappy these loans have been
reported to the credit reference agencies (CRA) because he withdrew from the credit
agreements within the 14-day cooling off period. These two loans should be treated as if
they hadnt happened and so therefore shouldnt be reported on his credit file.
Fund Ourselves responded to the complaint on 28 April 2022. In this final response letter, it
explained the Consumer Credit Act 1974 doesnt say that if a customer withdraws from a
loan that the record of the loan has to be removed from the credit file.
Fund Ourselves did say that if the information it had reported was incorrect  such as
showing a balance - it would correct it. Finally, it provided a link to an online article by a third
party credit reference agency provider which explains, that should a loan be cancelled, it
may show on a credit file. Therefore, Fund Ourselves said it hadnt made an error.
Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was then considered by an adjudicator. He concluded, Fund Ourselves had
made an error. He said S66A (7) of the Consumer Credit Act doesnt give Fund Ourselves
discretion as to whether it reports the loans to the credit reference agencies  and in his view
the agreements should be treated as if they never had existed. It therefore followed that
Fund Ourselves should remove the loans from Mr Ms credit file.
In order to put things right he asked Fund Ourselves to remove these loans from Mr Ms
credit file and pay him £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has
caused.
Fund Ourselves didnt agree with the assessment, because it says it had received a final
decision about a similar case, where the ombudsman hadnt upheld it.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me. I then proceeded to 
issue a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. 
In response to the provisional decision both Mr M and Fund Ourselves were asked to 
provide any further submissions as soon as possible, but in any event, no later than 
27 July 2023. 
Fund Ourselves responded to say it agreed with the provisional decision and it had nothing 
further to add. 
Mr M hasnt responded to the provisional decision. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says as he cancelled the loan agreements no information should be reported to the
credit reference agencies. Ive thought about this carefully and while I understand Mr Ms
frustration, Fund Ourselves, in my view hasnt done anything wrong in reporting these loans
to the credit reference agencies as it was reporting accurate information, Ive explained why
below.
Ive considered what the Consumer Credit Act says about cancelling a credit agreement.
Specifically, section 66A which says:
66A Withdrawal from consumer credit agreement
(1)The debtor under a regulated consumer credit agreement, other than an excluded
agreement, may withdraw from the agreement, without giving any reason, in
accordance with this section.
(2)To withdraw from an agreement under this section the debtor must give oral or
written notice of the withdrawal to the creditor before the end of the period of 14 days
beginning with the day after the relevant day.
So clearly, in this case, Mr M was entitled to withdraw from the two credit agreements by
giving Fund Ourselves notice within the 14 days period. In this case, there is no dispute
about this and as far as I can see Mr M did withdraw from the two loan agreements and paid
the balance that was due within 30 days of him giving notice.
Im satisfied Mr M withdrew from the agreements within the required timescales and the
Consumer Credit Act goes on to say;
(7)Subject as follows, where the debtor withdraws from a regulated consumer credit
agreement under this section
(a)the agreement shall be treated as if it had never been entered into
And this is the subsection Mr M is relying on to support his view, that as he withdrew from
the credit agreements then these agreements would be treated as if they hadnt been
entered into and therefore shouldnt be reported to the CRAs.
However, while Section 66A does refer to how a withdrawn agreement itself should be
regarded, it is silent on how such an agreement should be treated for the purposes of credit
file reporting. The only reference to how such agreements should be reported is found in
paragraph 11.21 of the Department for Business Innovation & Skills (BIS) guidance on the
implementing Consumer Credit (EU Directive) Regulations 2010/1010. The requirement to
implement this directive was the reason Section 66A came into being.
Paragraph 11.21 of the BIS guidance states:11.21 Section 66A(7)(a) is intended to be binding on the parties to the agreement
rather than more generally. CRAs could have regard to section 66A(7)(a) and treat
agreements where the borrower has exercised the right of withdrawal as never
having existed, removing the agreement from their database. However, they could
also record the agreement as having been repaid. The important thing is that the
consumer should not be disadvantaged in any way by having withdrawn from and
repaid a credit agreement.
Clearly, from the guidance there are situations where it could be appropriate for a lender to
remove the withdrawn loans from the credit file. However, in this case I dont think it would
be the fair or reasonable thing for me to direct Fund Ourselves to do.
I say this because Mr M took one loan and withdrew from it six days later. And then, four
days afterwards, Mr M approached Fund Ourselves for a new, larger loan. This time his
notice of withdrawal was made 13 days after the loan was granted (and within the relevant
time period). So, in total, Mr M spent at least 19 days out of a 23 day period in the month of
December 2021 indebted to Fund Ourselves. As this is the case, I dont think that it is unfair
for Fund Ourselves to report these loans as settled rather than not report them at all to credit
reference agencies.
The BIS guidance does appear to provide some latitude. And it will be down to the particular
facts and circumstances of the loans in question in terms of whether the information reported
to credit reference agencies is fair and reasonable. And bearing in mind the particular
circumstances here, I dont think that what Fund Ourselves is reporting misrepresents the
sequence of events or what happened here. Therefore, I dont think that Fund Ourselves has
acted unfairly and Im intending to not uphold Mr Ms complaint, or intend to require
Funds Ourselves to amend what it has reported to credit reference agencies or pay Mr M
compensation.
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome, but I hope my explanation has
provided useful as to why I am intending to not uphold his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new submissions, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I made in the provisional decisions. 
So, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons and that is in 
the individual circumstances of Mr Ms complaint, Fund Ourselves isnt required to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman