DRN-3501112
The complaint
Mr P says Lloyds Bank PLC acted unfairly when it closed his classic current account without 
giving a reason.
What happened
Mr P opened a current account with Lloyds in December 2015. Lloyds sent Mr P a closure 
notice for this account on 18 March 2022 giving 65 days notice.
Mr P says it is unreasonable Lloyds wont explain why  it had only earlier that month 
accepted his application for a credit card. He cant open an account elsewhere due to his 
circumstances. This has impacted his mental health.
Our investigator did not uphold the compliant. He said Lloyds was within its rights to close 
the account and was not obliged to provide a reason for doing so.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr P asked for an ombudsmans review. He wants this 
decision to be reconciled against a previous case he brought to this service that was upheld, 
and says he had done nothing to breach the terms of his account. He says Lloyds does not 
have the right to withhold its reason for closing his account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr P was inconvenienced when the bank closed the account, and that he
remains frustrated that it has not provided a reason. That being said, in order to uphold this
complaint, Id need to be persuaded that Lloyds made a mistake or did something it wasnt
entitled to do. And, having reviewed all of the information provided, I dont think that was the
case. Ill explain why.
There is no dispute about that Lloyds served notice as required prior to the closure, but Mr P
says it is unfair he has not been given a reason. Lloyds has explained that it was acting in
accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account and, having reviewed them, Im
satisfied that it was.
Mr P wants to know why Lloyds closed his account, but Lloyds isnt obliged to disclose the
reason so I cant say it did anything wrong by not giving Mr P an explanation. Lloyds has told 
this service why it closed Mr Ps account and, while I cant share these reasons with Mr P, I 
am satisfied from its submission that it was entitled to reach this decision, based on its risk 
policy.
Mr P has referenced a previous final decision, but I can only comment here on the individual 
merits of this complaint. I have however reviewed his earlier complaint and note that the 
circumstances differ significantly.
It follows I am not instructing Lloyds to take any action.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman