DRN-3547710
The complaint
The trustee of a trust, who Ill refer to as Mrs M, complains that Barclays Bank Plc lost the 
trust deed and related documents it was holding and also gave her incorrect information 
about the financial protection the trust account would receive under the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
What happened
Mrs M told us:
She holds a trust account with Barclays and the bank incorrectly told her that 
£85,000 would be protected for each trustee of the account, not £85,000 in total.
Barclays held the original trust documents from 1998 which it had now lost, so the 
bank should pay the costs to replace the trust deed.
Barclays had agreed to pay her £500 compensation for a complaint shed raised 
previously about the trust deed, but she hadnt received this.
Barclays told us:
The FSCS covered a total of £85,000 for the trust account, not per trustee
It had never held the trust documents and would only have received a copy when the 
account was opened, so it wouldnt pay the costs to draw up a new deed as it hadnt 
made an error.
It had offered Mrs M £50 compensation not the £500 she had requested. However, 
the bank agreed it could be clearer in its responses to Mrs M and paid her £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.  
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the FSCS protection 
limit of £85,000 per institution was the same for all banks so Barclays was acting in line with 
the Scheme. She also said that she didnt think it was likely that Barclays held the trust 
documents, so it wouldnt be fair to ask the bank to pay the cost to replace them. The 
investigator also acknowledged Mrs Ms comments about the £500 compensation, but she 
said the £100 compensation paid by Barclays for unclear communication was fair.
Mrs M didnt agree as she still thought Barclays should cover the cost of replacing the trust 
documents and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. So the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. 
Mrs M says that Barclays told her that each of the trustees of the account would receive 
£85,000 of protection from the FSCS rather than £85,000 in total. I havent seen any 
evidence Mrs M was given incorrect information by the bank. Im also not persuaded it would 
have done so given that the FSCS limits are widely advertised both in branches and online 
with links to the FSCS website. 
However, even if Mrs M was given incorrect information, the account was already opened 
before she enquired about the FSCS limits with the bank. Furthermore the protection limits 
would only be applicable if Barclays were to fail, which hasnt happened, and Mrs M has the 
option to move her money to other banks if she chooses. So Im also not persuaded there 
has been any impact to Mrs M.  
I think its possible that there may have been a misunderstanding from Mrs M when FSCS 
limits were discussed. I say this because under the FSCS a person  who can be a trustee  
does have the benefit of £85,000 FSCS protection. This would be in total across all the 
accounts they hold per banking institution and can include any funds held within a trust  but 
this would depend on the type of trust. If Mrs M wants to confirm the amount of protection for 
her specific trust, she can contact the FSCS on 0800 6781100.
I can see that Mrs M asked Barclays to write a letter confirming that the trust money would 
be protected for £85,000 for each of the trustees, which the bank didnt provide. However, 
Ive seen from the banks case notes that it wasnt able to communicate its reasons for this 
with Mrs M, as she ended the calls with the bank for various reasons. I think it was 
reasonable for the bank not to provide the letter, as the trust account wouldnt have had the 
level of protection under the FSCS that Mrs M wanted the bank to confirm. 
Mrs M also says the trust documentation was lost whilst it was in Barclays possession, but 
Im not persuaded thats the case. I say that because the bank has said that its process was 
to only take a copy of the documentation to open the trust account and Mrs M hasnt 
provided any evidence to show that the deeds were being held by the bank. 
I recognise that Mrs M has told us the account was opened by trustees that are now 
deceased, so she doesnt have any details of where the trust documents would be held. 
However, usually if a bank was holding documents, such as property deeds, there would be 
an annual charge which can be seen on the account statements. The bank has also said 
that its trust team doesnt have any record of the bank holding a copy of the trust documents. 
So based on the evidence available, Im not persuaded the bank lost the documents and 
therefore, it follows that I wont be asking it to pay any fees to replace them.  
Mrs M has told us that she was expecting a compensation payment from Barclays of £500 
for the inconvenience caused when she raised her initial complaint in 2017. However, Ive 
looked at the banks case notes, and I havent seen any evidence that this payment was 
agreed by Barclays  only that it was requested by Mrs M. I can see that the bank offered 
Mrs M £50 initially because it agreed it could have given her clearer information and that it 
has increased this by a further £50. 
I understand Mrs M says shes been caused inconvenience by Barclays, but the bank has 
apologised and paid her £100 compensation for not being clear with the explanation it gave. 
So Ive looked at the evidence from both parties and based on the circumstances of the 
complaint, I think Barclays has done enough to put things right. Therefore I wont be asking it 
to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman