DRN-4205843
The complaint
Mr S complains that Ageas Insurance Limited declined part of a claim he made on his 
buildings insurance policy for a drainage problem.
What happened
As the circumstances arent in dispute, Ill summarise the main points:
Mr S got in touch with a drainage company, who Ill call A, after discovering a blocked 
drain at his home. A said there were damaged joints and inadequate fall on the line. 
Mr S agreed for A to carry out the work to put these things right at a cost of around 
£6,000. He then made a claim with Ageas.
Ageas accepted the claim for the joints. It said its contractor could have carried those 
repairs out for around £800 and based settlement on that figure before deduction of 
the excess. It agreed repairs were required to put right the inadequate fall, but it 
didnt think they were covered by the policy.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said the policy covered 
accidental breakage of underground pipes and that included the functional problem 
caused by the inadequate fall. To put things right, he asked Ageas to cover all of the 
damage at its own cost.
Mr S agreed with this. Ageas didnt. In summary, it said:
oThe policy covers accidental damage, which means damage must be 
caused by something sudden.
oThe joints had suffered accidental damage. But the problem with inadequate 
fall was caused by its design  which isnt covered by the policy. Whichever 
company installed the pipework should be responsible for this problem.
oMuch of the pipework replaced by A wasnt damaged at all.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much of this dispute turns on the policy wording and how it should be interpreted. So thats 
where Ill start.
The policy says Ageas may use its own partners to carry out repair, rebuild or replacement. 
The consumer is free to use someone else, but the cost will be limited to what Ageas 
partner would charge. In the context of this complaint, it means Ageas wont pay Mr S more 
than it would cost its own drainage contractor to carry out the work.
In this case, the work had been carried out before Ageas had a chance to appoint its own 
contractor. I havent seen any evidence to suggest the problem was so urgent that Mr S 
couldnt reasonably have contacted Ageas before having the work carried out  or that he 
did so and it didnt act quickly enough. So Im satisfied its fair for Ageas to apply this policy 
term and limit the claim cost to the rates charged by its own contractor.
Ageas has accepted the claim for the damaged joints and offered to settle as its contractors 
rates, so I dont think this point requires further consideration. What remains in dispute is the 
rest of the claim  the problem with inadequate fall of the pipework  which Ageas declined.
Ageas has referenced the accidental damage section of the policy. I agree thats limited to 
situations where the damage is caused by something sudden, amongst other things. Ageas 
argues that only the joint damage meets this definition. But I dont think I need to decide that.
As the investigator pointed out, another section of the policy is for underground pipes and 
drains. I think thats the most relevant section in the circumstances of this claim. This 
section says it covers the cost of repairing underground pipes and drains if theyre 
accidentally broken. It doesnt define this phrase or otherwise stipulate that for damage to 
be covered under this section it must be caused by something sudden.
Where a phrase in the policy is undefined, it should take its ordinary, everyday meaning. In 
my view, accidentally means something unforeseen and unintended. And broken means 
physically damaged and/or not functioning as it ought to.
Ageas has accepted the inadequate fall was unforeseen and unintended, so the problem 
was accidental. And A has been clear that it replaced the pipework because it had 
inadequate fall and this had led to the blockage. As the drain wasnt functioning properly as 
a result of the poor fall, it was broken.
Overall Im satisfied this problem amounts to accidental breakage. Ageas has said that the 
repairs carried out by A may have been the best course of action due to the poor fall. So it 
seems to accept that replacing the length of pipework was a suitable remedy to the problem.
After our investigator shared his findings, Ageas raised a new reason for declining the claim 
 it said the inadequate fall was a result of poor design and this wasnt covered by the policy. 
Ageas ought to have raised all relevant reasons when it answered the complaint. 
Nonetheless, Ive considered what its said.
The part of the policy its referred to seems to be a non-contractual summary of some key 
terms, rather than the actual terms. In a later section of the policy, which lists all the 
exclusions that apply throughout the contract, it doesnt mention poor design or similar. Poor 
design is excluded from specific sections of the policy, such as subsidence. But the 
underground pipes section doesnt contain such an exclusion. So Im not persuaded the term 
raised by Ageas is relevant to this claim.
But even if it was relevant, Im not satisfied Ageas has done enough to show the problem is 
the result of poor design. All its offered to support that opinion is its contractors single 
sentence: we have attributed the reasons for the water holding is due to the 
design/installation of the system. I dont find this persuasive evidence of poor design. For 
example, theres nothing to suggest when the pipework was installed, what the relevant 
design standards of the time were or how they havent been met.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it was unfair for Ageas to decline part of the 
claim. To put things right, it should accept the remainder of the claim. Its entitled to limit the amount it pays to its own cost of carrying out the work and take it into account the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy, such as the excess and any relevant policy limits.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
 
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to accept the remainder of the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman