DRN-4234350
Complaint
E complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded several unauthorised transactions.
Background
The background to this case is well known to the parties, so I only intend to set out the facts 
briefly here.
E holds a personal bank account with Lloyds and complains that several unauthorised 
transactions were debited from their account. Some were contactless payments to shops, 
withdrawals from cash machines and online payments to a fast-food restaurant. E says that 
they asked Lloyds to block any payments to that specific fast-food restaurant. E says that 
they didnt make these payments and has speculated that their card has been cloned by a 
fraudster. 
The case was looked at by an Investigator who concluded that, on the balance of 
probabilities, E most likely did authorise the transactions in question or someone else did so 
with their consent or knowledge. E disagreed with the Investigators opinion and so the 
complaint has been passed me to consider and come to a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the regulations that apply to this case, the basic position is that Lloyds can hold E 
liable for the disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that 
they made or authorised them.
With the ATM withdrawals and the contactless payments, Lloyds has been able to provide 
evidence showing that Es genuine card was used, and the chip was read. Theyve also 
shown that the PIN was entered correctly for the cash withdrawals. 
The online payments were authenticated because the details of the card were input onto the 
fast-food restaurants payment system. So all of the payments that E disputes were 
appropriately authenticated, depending on the relevant criteria applicable to that payment 
type. But that isnt enough on its own for it to hold E liable. I also need to consider whether 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that they consented to these transactions.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to hold E liable for them. E has 
told us that the card was in their possession throughout the period in which the disputed 
transactions took place. In the circumstances of this case, I find it unlikely that a fraudster 
would have taken and used the card only to return it without this being noticed. I also think 
that, if an opportunistic fraudster had genuinely managed to get access to this account, they 
wouldve looked to make full use of that opportunity. However, there were no other attempts 
to withdraw money or use the card around this time. Furthermore, E also told us that they 
didnt write down their PIN anywhere making it difficult to see how a third-party couldve 
found out what it was.
It's also significant that E contacted Lloyds on 12 April and ordered a new card. A new card 
with a different number was sent out. Despite that, there were three more online payments 
made to the fast-food restaurant which E also says they didnt authorise. These payments 
were interspersed with several transactions which E has confirmed as being genuine. 
Unfortunately, Im not persuade its plausible that a third-party couldve taken and replaced 
the card and managed to intercept and take down the details of its replacement. 
E has speculated that the card might have been cloned. However, although its possible to 
clone the magnetic strip on a card and produce a replica, theres no evidence to suggest that 
the same process has been successfully carried out on the chip. Given that Lloyds has been 
able to show that the chip was read, Im persuaded that these transactions were carried out 
with Es genuine card.
I recognise that I cant know for certain how these transactions were made. I have to look at 
the available evidence and come to a decision on the balance of probabilities  i.e. is it more 
likely than not that these payments were authorised? I know that my decision will be hugely 
disappointing to E, but Im afraid I think the evidence strongly suggests they were and so my 
decision is that its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to hold E liable for them.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman