DRN-2940053
The complaint
Ms RB and Ms BB complain that Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a level 
term assurance policy to protect their mortgage. They say that Halifax told them the policy 
was a condition of them getting the mortgage and they have since found it was optional.
What happened
Ms RB, Ms BB and their sister took out an interest only mortgage with Halifax in 2009. When 
they applied for the mortgage at the local branch of Halifax they say they were told they must 
take out a life policy to cover the mortgage. They took out a level term assurance life policy 
for their share of the mortgage over the term of the loan. Their sister took out a similar policy 
for her one-third share of the mortgage at the same time.
Ms RB and Ms BB cancelled their policies in 2011, as did their sister. The mortgage was 
paid off a few years later.
Ms RB and Ms BB complained to Halifax in 2018 that theyd been told by the local branch 
they had to take out the policy to get a mortgage, but theyd since realised this wasnt the 
case. They also told Halifax that they werent made aware they could take a policy 
elsewhere. Halifax provided a final response and said they believed the policies had been 
recommended by the adviser after completing a demand and needs assessment, and the 
mortgage offer explained that only buildings insurance was a condition of the mortgage. 
Halifax said the information they sent to Ms RB and Ms BB at the time confirmed the policy 
had been recommended. They said there was nothing to suggest the adviser told them they 
must take out the policy to ensure the mortgage was approved.
As Ms RB and Ms BB werent happy with the response from Halifax they brought their 
complaint to our service. Halifax consented to us looking at the complaint. One of our 
investigators thought Halifax had made it reasonably clear the policy was optional and that 
as it covered the mortgage amount and term, the policy was suitable. Our investigator didnt 
think Halifax had mis-sold the policy. 
Ms RB and Ms BB didnt agree with our investigator. They said that Halifax didnt give them 
a choice and told them they must take out the policy. Ms RB and Ms BB say they dont recall 
receiving any of the documents which referred to the life cover as being optional, and in any 
case they didnt sign them. They asked that an ombudsman decides their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint like this one, I start by establishing whether Halifax 
recommended the policy. If they did recommend it they had a duty to make sure the policy 
was suitable. If they didnt recommend it they still had a duty to give the information needed 
to decide whether to take out the policy. That means they had to draw attention to the main 
features of the policy and to present the information in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
I understand that Ms RB and Ms BB will be disappointed with my final decision, but for very 
much the same reasons as our investigator, Im not persuaded Halifax told them they must 
take out the policy when they took out the mortgage. I will now explain why. 
In this case I acknowledge Ms RB and Ms BB have very strong views that the adviser told 
them they must take out the policy if they wanted the mortgage. However, as there is no 
record of a conversation along these lines Ive looked to see if there is any documentary 
evidence that supports what is likely to have happened at the time of the sale.
Ive seen that the system notes used by Halifax record a discussion about life and critical 
illness cover, and that critical illness was declined. Ive also seen a copy of a demands and 
needs statement which records life cover for the mortgage was split equally between Ms RB, 
Ms BB and their sister. This is supported by a letter Halifax sent to Ms B and Ms RB dated 
11 June 2009 that also said the policy recommended was optional. Ive also seen that 
Halifax sent Ms RB and Ms BB a copy of the mortgage offer dated 9 June 2009. The offer 
said there was no requirement to buy insurance through Halifax, and that the only insurance 
that was a condition of the mortgage is buildings insurance. I acknowledge the mortgage 
offer is silent on any associated life cover and whether it was compulsory or not, so I havent 
given any significant weight to this part of the document.
Ms RB and Ms BB said in their complaint email to Halifax, dated 9 July 2018, that they 
thought the life insurance was PPI as all the paper-work said TPPM. Ms RB and Ms BB 
have told us they dont believe they received the documents Ive referred to above. The letter 
of 11 June 2009 was sent to the correct address, and the statement Ms RB and Ms BB 
made in their complaint to Halifax supports they received this letter. The letter made it 
reasonably clear that the only recommendation was life cover, that it was optional and there 
was no PPI.
I cant be sure what was said at the meeting when the adviser sold the mortgage and life 
cover to Ms RB and Ms BB. But, the screen shots, the demand and needs documents and 
the letter dated 11 June 2009 persuade me its more likely the adviser recommended the 
policy rather than telling Ms RB and Ms BB that they must take it to get their mortgage. 
Having decided that Halifax likely recommended the policy, I will now consider whether the 
policy Halifax recommended was suitable. 
Ive first considered whether it was reasonable for Halifax to arrange one policy for Ms RB 
and Ms BB, and a separate policy for their sister. Halifax have confirmed that there can only 
be two lives assured on each TPPM policy. Therefore, one policy was arranged in joint 
names and the other was in the single name of their sister. Im satisfied Ms RB and Ms BB 
were covered for a one-third share of the mortgage on death and that this was suitable.
The mortgage was arranged on an interest-only basis and the offer explained that Ms RB 
and Ms BB, and their sister, expected to use pension funds to repay the mortgage, or even 
sell the property at some time in the future. This meant the outstanding balance on the 
mortgage would remain the same as there was no planned regular capital repayments. In 
these circumstances I would expect Halifax to recommend a life policy for the term of the 
mortgage and for the total death benefit to be enough to clear the outstanding balance. In 
this case Halifax did recommend a policy that provided life cover to match the mortgage 
balance and the term. So, in this regard Im satisfied that a level term assurance policy was 
a suitable type of policy to recommend.I would expect Halifax to have considered any other life cover that Ms RB and Ms BB 
already held, but in this case there appears to have been no other suitable cover. So, in my 
opinion, it doesnt seem unreasonable that Halifax recommended life cover for Ms RB and 
Ms BB to protect their share of the mortgage balance should one of them should die during 
the term. I also consider it reasonable that as Ms RB, Ms BB and their sister were named on 
the mortgage that the life cover on these policies was split equally to protect the full 
mortgage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman