DRN-2425319
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n (RSA) has 
declined the claim he made for his cats dental treatment. 
What happened
Mr S took out a pet insurance policy for his cat on 27 October 2019. 
In January 2020, Mr S took his cat for a dental procedure. He was given general 
anaesthetic; the health of his teeth was assessed, and dental care was carried out. The 
remaining teeth were scaled and polished to help slow down dental disease. 
Mr S put in a claim to RSA. It assessed the claim but declined it on the basis that there was 
a pre-existing condition. RSA said, looking at the medical history, there were notes made by 
a previous vet in May 2018, that the cat had suffered gingivitis (a condition in which the 
gums around the teeth become inflamed usually from the build-up of plaque). It was noted 
that the teeth were generally plaque free, but gingivitis was on the upper left teeth. RSA 
said therefore, that the condition which Mr S was claiming for was pre-existing. 
RSA said, in addition, there was a requirement in the policy terms and conditions that a 
dental check should have been carried out in the 12 months prior to the claim for dental 
treatment. As there was no record of this having been carried out, the claim was further 
declined as the policy terms had not been met. 
Mr S referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and 
didnt uphold it as the policy terms and conditions hadnt been met and that the condition 
being claimed for was pre-existing.
Mr S asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman to make a decision. So, its 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I need to decide is whether RSA has applied the terms and conditions of the 
policy in line with whats expected and whether the claim has been considered in a fair and 
reasonable manner. 
Dental care
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions for dental care. This says:
What is not covered

24. the cost of treating a dental condition unless your pet has had its teeth checked 
in the 12 months before the condition that you are claiming for started and your pet 
has had all the treatment recommended during that check carried out.
I cant see any evidence or information provided by Mr S that a dental check was carried out 
in the 12 months prior to the dental treatment being claimed for. So, strictly speaking, the 
claim isnt covered as the requirement hasnt been met. Im satisfied that RSA has looked at 
the terms and conditions appropriately and I think its not unreasonable in the circumstances 
that RSA has declined the claim on this basis. 
Pre-existing condition:
Ive reviewed the policy terms and conditions on whats covered and not covered. This says:
What is not covered
We will not pay:
1..
2. for health issues, concerns, illnesses and injuries which you or your vet were 
aware of before you took out the policy, they are known as pre-existing conditions. 
Pre-existing conditions are:
..
..
Existing illnesses or injuries;
..
..
RSA has said from the information it had been given, the condition being claimed for is 
pre-existing. Ive looked at the notes from the vet from May 2018 which say that the cat had 
gingivitis at that point, and it was on the upper left teeth. Mr S hasnt provided any further 
information which suggest the cats teeth were looked at until he took his cat for dental 
treatment in January 2020. In the absence of further information about the condition of the 
cats teeth, on balance, I think its more likely that the condition existed when the policy was 
taken out in October 2019. And the only information we have is when he took his cat to a vet 
in May 2018 which show that the cat had gingivitis but no further notes since. In the 
circumstances therefore, Im satisfied that the terms and conditions in this regard have been 
applied appropriately and fairly and that the condition was pre-existing.
While there were checks carried out from the previous vet, my understanding is that the 
purpose of these were for nail clips. They dont sufficiently provide evidence of a specific 
dental check being carried out. Theres no persuasive evidence there was a dental check 
carried out in the previous 12 months to the policy being taken out. As such Im not 
persuaded the claim ought to be accepted as this condition hasnt been met. 
I acknowledge Mr Ss comments to the investigator on why he doesnt accept her findings. 
Ive considered the comments. Ultimately, however, while I appreciate Mr S is 
understandably unhappy with the outcome, having reviewed all the available evidence, the 
claim has been declined for two reasons as confirmed above. 
Overall, in all the circumstances of this complaint, I think RSA has applied the terms and 
conditions of the policy appropriately and the claim has been considered fairly and 
reasonably. RSA doesnt need to do anything further. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman