DRN-4307778
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL)  trading 
as American Express handled a claim he made in respect of a transaction on his credit card.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to the parties. So I will only cover these briefly 
here and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Mr P used his AESEL card to purchase flights for his granddaughter and her partner from a 
travel agent (the agent). The booking was made in April 2020 and the flights were due to 
depart in February 2021. However, due to the circumstances around the pandemic the 
flights were cancelled.
Mr P was unable to get a refund from the agent (which later went out of business) so 
contacted AESEL to raise a dispute. Mr P is unhappy with the outcome and the way AESEL 
handled things. He said it kept asking him for the same information and took too long.
AESEL did not uphold the dispute it said it was out of time to raise a chargeback and that 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) did not apply.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint either. She noted that any chargeback would 
be out of time and that Section 75 did not apply to the transaction because of the nature of 
the agreement.
Mr P disagreed so the matter has come to me for a final decision. I issued a provisional 
decision as follows:
I wont comment on all the evidence I have seen  only what I consider to be particularly 
relevant. This isnt intended as a discourtesy but reflects my role resolving disputes 
informally.
Firstly, despite the unfortunate situation with the cancelled flights it is important to note here 
that AESEL is not the provider of travel services. So when deciding how it handled the claim 
I consider its particular role as a provider of financial services. In doing so I consider 
chargeback and Section 75 relevant considerations as they are ways AESEL might 
reasonably be able to help Mr P get his money back.
In brief, I dont think that AESEL is fairly liable for providing a refund to Mr P. I will explain 
more about my reasons for this in a moment. However, I do think AESEL did not handle the 
claim as well as it could have done  so, I am making an award to reflect this.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a way AESEL might have been able to claim back a refund for Mr P. However 
it is limited by the particular card scheme rules. One of the key issues with chargeback is the 
specific time limits in order to raise a claim.
Here AESEL says that when Mr P got in touch with it (October 2022) they had no option to 
raise a chargeback as it was out of time.
I have considered what AESEL has said and I think this is correct. Generally for a 
chargeback reason like service not provided (which would be relevant here) there is 120 
days to raise said chargeback from the date of expected service. Clearly Mr P was out of 
time as the cancelled booking was set for February 2021. 
I have also thought about whether another chargeback reason would have been in time  
such as that relating to a credit not being processed. But it appears the refund was approved 
in December 2021 which is more than 120 days before Mr P got in touch with AESEL to 
raise a dispute in any event.
Overall, due to the strict chargeback timeframes and when Mr P got in touch with it I dont 
think AESEL acted unfairly in not pursuing a chargeback here.
Section 75
Section 75 can allow Mr P to make a claim against AESEL for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by a supplier paid using his credit card in respect of specific goods or 
services.
However, certain criteria must be met for Section 75 to apply. AESEL says it hasnt been  
specifically the requirement for a valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement between the 
parties.
I note there has been a suggestion that the way the payment to the agent was processed 
means there isnt a valid DCS agreement. I dont necessarily agree with that as simply 
facilitating a transaction doesnt always mean there wont be a DCS agreement. However, I 
do agree that the other elements here mean there isnt a valid DCS agreement  so I dont 
intend to cover this other aspect in any detail. 
I dont think Mr P is able to make a Section 75 claim in respect of the actions of the airline 
here, or the travel agent which booked the tickets. I say this because:
Mr P didnt pay the airline for services using his AESEL credit card, and he doesnt 
have a contractual agreement with it in any event (his family members do); and
although Mr P paid the agent for services using his credit card, he has no contract with 
it  the booking was made by his granddaughter  and the paperwork clearly confirms 
she is the agents customer  not Mr P.
In deciding that Mr P does not have a contract with the agent I have had regard to its 
archived terms and conditions from around the time of the booking (we dont appear to have 
the terms on file previously). I think these likely reflect the contractual position at the time the 
booking was made. These show that the agent is contracting with the person making the 
booking arrangements and do not indicate that by simply paying for the booking Mr P has a 
contract with it for services rendered. 
I know this seems quite technical  but in respect of Section 75 AESEL are only fairly liable 
for a like claim which Mr P would have in court against a supplier. Here, despite wanting to 
do something for his family by paying for flights I dont think Mr P would be in a position to 
take the agent he paid to court  so it follows that he doesnt have a like claim against 
AESEL. And it hasnt acted unfairly in declining his claim.Mr P has maintained that AESEL was very slow to handle his claim and kept asking him for 
information it already had. I can see that Mr P first got in touch with AESEL in October 2022 
yet it didnt give him an outcome to his claim until February 2023. It took over four months to 
deal with the matter and I can see it kept going back to him asking for more information  yet 
it wasnt clear to me what it needed to be able to consider the dispute and carry out an 
investigation or that it didnt already have sufficient information to understand things. It would 
also have been reasonably clear at an early stage that the chargeback was out of time.
I dont think the letters AESEL sent Mr P were particularly clear and kept telling him the 
matter was going to be closed. At one point AESEL told him to go back to the supplier to 
resolve things (even though it could have fairly looked into a Section 75 claim). Furthermore, 
despite going back and forth with Mr P over many months AESEL appears to only have 
started to consider Section 75 in February 2023. In early February 2023 it sent him a Section 
75 claim form. I question why it took AESEL months to send him this and begin to look at 
Section 75. I can see Mr P was frustrated as a lot of the information AESEL asked for in this 
form he noted he had sent it already.
Mr P was clearly frustrated with how AESEL handled things. I know it has said it doesnt 
have a timeframe set down in law to handle claims. However, the FCA has issued guidance 
in April 2021 which is relevant here that states:
We expect credit and debit card providers to handle section 75 and chargeback claims in a 
reasonable timescale, and remind firms of their obligations to treat customers fairly. If there 
are delays in processing claims, firms should clearly explain the reason for the delay.
I dont think the claim was handled as well as it could have been particularly around 
communication and reasonable timescales. With all this in mind I think that AESEL should 
pay Mr P £150 for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered as a result of its claim 
handling in the particular circumstances here.
My provisional decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct American Express Services Europe Limited 
(AESEL)  trading as American Express to pay Mr P £150 compensation.  
I asked the parties for comments. 
AESEL accepted my findings. 
Mr Ps responded as follows (via his representative), in summary:
the agent kept promising a refund up until October 2022 when he contacted AESEL 
so the chargeback timeframe should kick in then (and at no point has he stopped 
pursuing this so should not be over any timeframe);
if he had bought other goods for his family that didnt arrive he questions whether 
AESEL would be happy to give a refund because their client has not received the 
goods they have paid for;
society should protect those using credit cards for large purchases like this and he 
has been with AESEL for many years now and when he needs protection he has not 
received it  this has caused endless stress.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to hear about how this situation with the flight cancellation has impacted Mr P 
and his family and the stress it has caused. However, the submissions made on Mr Ps 
behalf do not change my view on the outcome here. I still consider my provisional findings 
fair and reasonable for the reasons given in said findings (as copied above).
It is worth underlining that the timescales for chargeback are specified by the card scheme  
so even though Mr P was chasing a refund for a while after it was promised and being told it 
was coming this does not extend the timeframe relating to raising a chargeback for a credit 
not being paid. So I still dont think chargeback had a reasonable prospect of success for 
reasons I have already given.
Furthermore, my findings are not in respect of other purchases Mr P has made or might 
make and I am reluctant to cover hypothetical situations regarding the debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement as this is case specific. However, what is key here is that Mr P is not the 
customer of the agent even though he used his credit card to make the payment. So I dont 
consider he has a claim against AESEL in respect of Section 75.
I acknowledge Mr Ps points about the amount of money spent here and his customer loyalty 
to AESEL. I also acknowledge that there is often a degree of additional protection available 
when spending on a card. However, any protections are subject to limitations. In this case I 
am unable to fairly say that AESEL as a provider of financial services should have paid out a 
refund here because of the specific limitations around raising chargeback disputes and 
Section 75 claims. 
I do still think AESELs customer service could have been better  and it appears to agree 
with me. It should pay compensation for the reasons I have already given in my provisional 
findings.
Putting things right
AESEL should pay Mr P the compensation as set out below.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct American Express Services Europe Limited 
(AESEL)  trading as American Express to pay Mr P £150 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman