DRN-3800156
The complaint
Mr K complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) handling of his 
claim following the theft of his vehicle under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr Ks vehicle was stolen. It was recovered by the police but had been 
damaged during the theft. Mr K contacted LV and it arranged for the vehicle to be collected 
and the damage assessed. 
Mr K says there were a number of delays, and poor communication when dealing with his 
claim. Additional damage was caused to his vehicle when it was being held by LVs agent. 
The vehicle was subsequently determined a total loss. Mr K was offered a settlement 
payment of £11,050. He disputed the valuation and LV subsequently increased its offer to 
£13,075 less its policy excess. Because of the issues he experienced Mr K raised a 
complaint. 
LV apologised for the time taken to reach its total loss decision. It accepts damage was 
caused due to the vehicle being left in the open, with a smashed window and missing rear 
cover. It paid £350 compensation for the impact this had on Mr K.
Mr K didnt think this outcome was fair. He says he was without a courtesy car during this 
period. He also says the impact has cost him more than the £350 compensation provided by 
LV. Because of this he referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld his 
complaint. She didnt think we could consider the courtesy car issue as this hadnt been 
raised with LV by Mr K. But she thought an additional £150 compensation was fair to 
acknowledge the poor standard of service.  
Mr K didnt agree to this outcome and neither did LV, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Let me explain.
From the information provided I can see Mr Ks vehicle was initially retained by the police for 
a few days at the end of January 2022 whilst it investigated the theft. Within a week the 
vehicle had been collected by LVs agent. The records show an inspection of the car took 
place around a week after it was collected. 
Ive read the engineers report from this inspection. Based on the cost of repairs, when 
compared against the estimated value of the vehicle, a repair was thought to be viable. LV 
refers to another engineer who was needed to inspect the damaged wiring around the 
vehicles immobiliser. From the records I can see Mr K made several contacts with LV to find 
out what was happening during this time. The records dont support this having been clearly 
explained or that LV was proactive in updating Mr K.   
A further inspection of the vehicle was arranged for the end of March 2022. I understand Mr 
K arranged to attend with LVs engineer. It was at this inspection that Mr K identified further 
damage to the interior of his vehicle. He says one window was broken and one was left 
open. This allowed rainwater to soak the cab and result in mould growth. I note the rear 
cover for the vehicle was also missing and this resulted in damage to the tools Mr K kept in 
the rear.  
I can see that it took several weeks, up to the end of March 2022, for the final decision to be 
made as to whether Mr Ks vehicle was repairable. It was then confirmed to Mr K that the 
vehicle was a total loss and he was offered £11,050 as a settlement payment. 
Ive read the contact records in detail, as well as considering Mr Ks testimony. I dont think a 
good standard of communication was achieved by LV when handling his claim. I understand 
it had to be established if the wiring issue was repairable. But it took around seven weeks 
from the first engineers report to decide the vehicle was a total loss. I think this shouldve 
happened quicker. It also appears that the onus was on Mr K to find out what was 
happening. 
I can understand why Mr K was upset when he found his vehicle to be in a worse condition 
than it had been after the accident. Id expect LVs agent to ensure it protected it from the 
elements given it had a broken window. From what I understand a window was also left 
open after the theft  its not clear if this could be closed  but again this shouldnt have been 
left exposed to the weather, which caused further damage. 
In its submissions to our service LV says its repairer always felt the vehicle would be a total 
loss, due to the nature of the electrical damage and the need for further investigation. I 
acknowledge its comments. But I dont think this is clear from the initial engineers report, or 
that this was explained to Mr K at an early stage. 
Mr Ks policy terms say if his vehicle is damaged it will pay for it to be repaired or, if its a 
total loss, it will pay the market value. The terms define market value as the cost of replacing 
the vehicle with the same make, model, age, mileage, and condition, calculated immediately 
before the loss. 
I asked LV for its engineers report that shows why the vehicle was considered a total loss. 
From Mr Ks comments he felt this was the result of damage caused when the vehicle was in 
the possession of LV. Ive now seen the final engineers report. This put the cost of repairs at 
just over £12,000. This was approaching the market value of the vehicle. Given the costs 
involved in the repairs I dont think LV acted unreasonably in determining the vehicle a total 
loss. I dont think its been shown that damage caused by the vehicle being left in the open 
was the reason it was considered a total loss. 
Mr K says he was disgusted with the initial settlement payment LV offered for £11,050. 
I can see that LV offered a final settlement payment of £13,075. It says this was based on 
the industry trade guides and its engineers assessment of similar vehicles for sale. 
Ive thought about whether LVs settlement payment was fair. Our service doesnt provide 
valuations for vehicles, but we do look to see whether the offer provided by an insurer is 
reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from the 
motor trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide 
research and likely sales figures. The guides also consider regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see LV obtained valuations from three of the trade guides and offered Mr K £13,050. 
This was based on the valuations and the market examples it found. We obtained a further 
valuation from another of the guides. This gave a valuation of £12,542 based on the correct 
make, model, age, and mileage for Mr Ks vehicle. 
LV offered Mr K a higher payment than the guide valuation we obtained. Based on what Ive 
seen I dont think LVs offer was unreasonable. But I acknowledge Mr Ks concern that its 
initial offer was far lower. I can understand why he found this upsetting. 
Having considered all of this I dont think LV treated Mr K fairly, in light of the poor 
communication and the delays involved in establishing his vehicle was a total loss. As well 
as failing to ensure Mr Ks vehicle was protected from further damage whilst under its care. 
This delayed the provision of a settlement payment and the opportunity for Mr K to find a 
replacement vehicle. I think its fair that LV compensates Mr K. But I dont think £350 is fair 
to reflect the overall impact this has had. I agree with our investigator that a total payment of 
£500 is reasonable in these circumstances (inclusive of the payment already provided).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited should:
pay Mr K an additional £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman