DRN-4185271
The complaint
Mr S complains about how UK Insurance Limited (UKI) handled his No Claims Discount on 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S had a motor insurance policy from UKI covering his car. 
He had built up eight years No Claims Discount (NCD) showing on his policy record, but UKI 
dont recognise NCD longer than five years. So it used five years as his entitlement under 
the terms of its policy.
Mr S was involved in an incident in his car. UKI reduced his NCD from five to three years 
due to this.
Mr S wasnt happy and he complained. He says he had to take a policy elsewhere with only 
three years NCD. UKI said it had applied the NCD correctly due to his incident.
Mr S remained unhappy and he brought his complaint to this service. He asks that UKI 
recognise his 6 years NCD and pay him £200 compensation. He says he wasnt told about 
UKIs NCD scale. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and thought it wouldnt be upheld. She thought 
UKI actions were fair.
Mr S didnt agree with the view. He asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why.
NCD is a discount offered by insurers which reflects a good driving history. Its issued to a 
particular driver.
Mr S took out a policy with UKI in 2020 and renewed it twice, before cancelling at renewal in 
2023.
UKIs policy wording issued to Mr S in 2020 stated:
If you claim on your policy, we may reduce the NCD on this policy.
NCD at the start of the period of insurance 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9 years
NCD at the next renewal date following 1 claim: 3 years
I can see the policy wording issued to him at subsequent renewals have similar wording.
The way his NCD is stepped-back is normal in the industry and I think its been used fairly 
here. Some insurers also limit the maximum entitlement to five years.
Mr S has said hes sure he didnt get told about this NCD scale when he originally purchased 
the policy, and UKI hasnt been able to send me copies of the original sales process.
But his policy renewed at least twice and gave him the same information in his policy 
documents, so I cant reasonably say UKI didnt give Mr S the information he needed to 
make an informed choice over the years he was insured by it.
I can see how being issued with policy documents saying he had eight years NCD, which is 
different to how UKIs policy works, might be confusing. But I think UKI reasonably told Mr S 
about the discount he was entitled to, and its acted in line with its terms and conditions.
I asked UKI if it would write to Mr S setting out the amount of NCD he started the policy with, 
the business maximum, and how thats affected Mr S after his claim. 
I can see that UKI has already done this. Mr S can now approach his current insurer and ask 
if it changes his situation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman