DRN-3043002
The complaint
Ms P has complained Nationwide Building Society wont refund transactions made from her 
credit card which she didnt authorise.
What happened
In 2011-2012 Ms P was in a relationship with Mr B. She realised towards the end of 2012 
that hed been using her various accounts (current, savings and credit) with a range of 
different banks without her authorisation. This issue was reported to the police and Mr B ran 
to escape prosecution. 
Ms P reported the frauds to the banks. This included to Nationwide for both her current 
account and credit card. Ms P believed the disputed transactions on her credit card which 
ran from April 2012 amounted to more than £20,000. Nationwide wrote to Ms P to confirm 
shed need to pursue the case with the police before theyd consider the disputed 
transactions on her credit card.
In early 2013 Ms P paid off the outstanding balances on her credit card in three instalments 
(£1,000, £5,784.25 and £106.41).
In 2017 Mr B was sentenced to four and a half years imprisonment. He admitted to fraud 
amounting to £227,000.
In 2018 Ms P went back to Nationwide to raise issues around the fraud on her credit card. 
Nationwide rejected Ms Ps claim despite Mr Bs prosecution. They believed she knew about 
the transactions and had authorised them.
Ms P brought her complaint to our service. During the extended period her complaint has 
been with our service, Nationwide offered £14,010 in compensation. This covered five 
payments taken from another of Ms Ps current accounts from April to October 2012. 
Ms P didnt accept this compensation as this didnt take into account further payments made 
by her to pay off the credit card debt in early 2013.
Our investigator believed Nationwides offer to settle the complaint was fair. She felt there 
was limited evidence to show that Ms P had made those payments herself as shed 
mentioned her parents had helped her out.
Ms P remained unhappy as she didnt believe £14,010 covered the fraudulent transactions 
made by Mr B on her Nationwide credit card. Shes asked an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a slightly different conclusion to our investigator. Ive already 
confirmed this to both Nationwide and Ms P and explained why. I explain further below.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than Ms P and 
Nationwide. Ive done so using my own words. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im aware that because of the time thats passed since the disputed transactions took place 
there is limited detailed evidence. Like our investigator Ive relied on Ms Ps testimony about 
the fraud on her credit card account only starting in April 2012. This wasnt an account Ms P 
used all the time but she had used the card early in 2012 whilst being abroad with Mr B. She 
had a direct debit set up to pay off the account in full.
But its also clear that Mr B was prosecuted for defrauding Ms P of a significant amount of 
money well in excess of her claim on her Nationwide credit card.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Nationwide and 
Ms P. Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 21 May 2021 but feel no need to 
rerun some of the arguments made there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which drive 
the decision Im making.
Were the transactions authorised?
The regulations which are relevant to Ms Ps complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2009 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but nothing thats had a 
major impact when I consider these transactions were made with a credit card.
Theres no dispute all the transactions happened after Ms P repaid her own use of the credit 
card in January 2012. This is marked by a direct debit payment of £1,566.10 on 29 January 
2012. 
Nationwide has also accepted in principle that transactions after this date were 
unauthorised. Overall Im satisfied that transactions after this date  and the charges that 
were added to Ms Ps credit card  all resulted from the unauthorised use by Mr B.
Putting things right
Nationwide has offered £14,010 to Ms P for the disputed transactions. This covers the five 
payments Ms P made to settle her account in 2012 being £4,650, £6,550, £2,000, £460 and 
£350.  
However this left Ms Ps credit card with a debt. This was repaid in three payments in 
January 2013. Im aware that Ms Ps parents may have assisted with her in repaying this 
debt but I dont believe this is the key aspect. In any case Im sure Ms P may have repaid 
this debt.
For me  and Ive confirmed this already to Nationwide  its clear that these payments only 
had to be made because of the unauthorised use by Mr B. This means it is fair and 
reasonable that Ms P is reimbursed in full. 
I calculated the full reimbursement due to Ms P to total £20,900.66. Nationwide will now 
have to repay Ms P this amount.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Nationwide Building Society to 
repay Ms P £20,900.66.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman