DRN-4104579
The complaint
Ms B complains that the interest HSBC UK Bank Plc are charging her on her credit card is 
disproportionate.
What happened
Ms B says that due to unfortunate financial circumstances she has been paying her HSBC 
credit card outstanding balance for more than a year. She says the interest they charge is 
disproportionate and does not decrease each month (based on the interest charge in August 
2022 compared to June 2022). Although she increased her repayments from £50 to £100 
she feels that a high amount of her repayment just pays high interest and doesnt reduce her 
outstanding balance. Ms B says that due to her personal circumstances she now lives 
overseas, and the repayments are made in Euros instead of in Pounds Sterling which is 
making the situation worse. Ms B made a complaint to HSBC.
HSBC did not uphold Ms Bs complaint. They said they had reviewed her credit card 
agreement, which she took out in October 2018, and the agreement showed the Annual 
Percentage Rate (APR) at 25.9%. HSBC said it is worked out correctly and is shown on her 
monthly payments. They observed Ms B makes repayments of £100 per month which 
decreases her balance and interest every month. They said if she spends on her credit card 
then she would pay more in interest and charges. Ms B brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Bs complaint. She said that the interest and fees Ms B 
has been charged are correct and they have been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of her credit agreement. She says the rate of interest HSBC charges on an 
account is a commercial decision and our service cant tell them to change this.
Ms B asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said she wants us to 
investigate whether it is legal for HSBC to apply a APR of 25.9%, as other credit cards 
charge less interest. She said she was charged high late payment fees when her payments 
were late and she has a loan account with HSBC which she was charged high fees when 
her loan repayments were late.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B has mentioned her loan account and the fees that she has paid when her payments 
were late on her loan. But Im unable to consider this as part of this complaint. This is 
because this didnt form part of the complaint she brought to HSBC or our service. So Ms B 
would need to complain directly to HSBC about this issue if she wished to do so.
Ive considered what Ms B has said about other companies charging a lower APR on their 
credit cards. But how much interest a business charges as part of a credit agreement is a 
commercial decision for a business to make. It is not a decision our service can interfere with 
if it is charged in line with the credit agreement. So here Ill be looking at Ms Bs credit 
agreement to see if HSBC have done anything wrong. 
Im satisfied that HSBC arent acting illegally by acting in line with the credit agreement, 
which Ms B would have needed to agree to when she applied for the account. The credit 
agreement shows that there is a variable rate of interest of 25.9% APR for purchases and 
balance transfers and 27.9% APR for cash or cash related payments. So although Ms B 
says that 25.9% APR is too high, this is the interest rate she agreed to when she applied and 
was accepted for the credit card. Ms Bs credit agreement also shows that there would be a 
late payment fee of £12. The £12 fee is in line with the credit card industry in the UK.
Ms B has mentioned that the interest she has been charged does not decrease each month 
and pointed to her August and June 2022 statements. Ms Bs credit agreement shows We 
work out interest on a daily basis and add it to the account on your monthly statement date. 
So there could be several factors which could affect how much interest Ms B is charged from 
one month to the next, including, but not limited to; the number of days in a month, when she 
makes her repayment (as an earlier repayment means she reduces her outstanding balance 
earlier and therefore she would pay less interest in the following month than if she made a 
repayment later in the month, how much she repays, if there are any new transactions on 
her account etc. But Im satisfied that the interest and fees were charged in line with her 
credit agreement.
I would encourage Ms B to contact HSBC directly if she is struggling with making her 
repayments, to see what assistance they can provide her. But as HSBC are acting in line 
with the credit agreement, it follows I dont require HSBC to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman