DRN-3735449
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Western Provident Association Limited (WPA) didnt agree to pay all the 
costs associated with an outpatient treatment claim he made.
What happened
Mr M took out a Flexible Health Premier policy with WPA in October 2019.
He chose to have a £1,500 outpatient limit and a shared responsibility co-payment of 
£250 per policy year. 
Mr M submitted a claim in November 2021 as he was suffering from heart 
palpitations and further investigations were required. Consultations and tests were 
authorised by WPA over a six-week period under the outpatient treatment which 
meant that WPA would cover costs up to the £1,500 limit.
On 5 January 2022, Mr M contacted WPA to query a shortfall on a hospital invoice as 
his outpatient limit had been reached. He received a call-back from WPA on 
6 January 2022, and it advised Mr M of the terms and condition of his policy, his 
outpatient limit and discussed the invoices which had been used under this limit. 
WPA paid the outstanding shortfall as a gesture of goodwill and sent Mr M a 
breakdown of the invoices.
Mr M contacted WPA on 7 February 2022 as he received further invoices. These 
formed Mr Ms shared responsibility to pay 25% of invoices up to £250. He was 
unhappy with having to pay these and made a formal complaint to WPA. 
WPA issued a final response and said the claim had been dealt with fairly and 
reasonably. It said Mr M had exhausted his benefit limits and it paid 50% of the 
invoice shortfall. But it didnt agree to pay the further invoices Mr M had received as 
he had been made aware of the relevant policy terms and conditions. Mr M cancelled 
his policy with WPA. 
He brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint 
and didnt uphold it. She didnt think WPA had acted unfairly or unreasonably in not 
agreeing to pay the outstanding invoices on his claim. She said WPA had acted 
within the policy terms and conditions and paid 50% of the shortfall for one invoice as 
a gesture of goodwill. She didnt think WPA had done anything wrong. 
Mr M doesnt agree because he thinks WPA needs to change its practices as it has a 
duty of care to their customers. He said he would have approached this differently 
had he known of the true costs of the consultations and tests as he trusted WPA and 
he feels hes been let down. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
Ive looked at the relevant terms and conditions of the policy and the claim 
authorisation letter that was sent to Mr M on 22 November 2021. 
I can see WPA said on 22 November that: 
Whilst you have comprehensive healthcare benefits, some tests are expensive and 
may take you over your outpatient benefit limit. We recommend that you take your 
authorisation letter to your Specialist, which details your annual limit, to discuss your 
treatment plan and costs.
The letter clearly stated Mr Ms £1,500 benefit limit and that some tests could cost 
more than others. Im satisfied Mr M was made aware therefore of the limits to the 
policy at the start of the claim. Mr M had the option of asking his specialist for a fee 
list and then contacting WPA to clarify what was covered before he went ahead with 
his treatment.
The invoices received later related to Mr Ms £250 shared responsibility and co-
payment. Having listened to the call he had with WPA in January 2022, I can see that 
these costs were explained to him.
Ive considered the breakdown of the costs and how they were apportioned to the 
relevant terms and conditions. I can see that WPA calculated Mr Ms shared 
responsibility contributions in line with the benefit limits under his policy terms and 
conditions. So, I dont think Mr M has been treated unfairly in how the invoices have 
been calculated. 
WPA also covered 50% of one of the invoices as a gesture of goodwill even though 
the outpatient costs had exceeded the policy limits. I think this is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate that Mr M went through a difficult time and his main concern was his 
health at the time. I understand, however, his policy with WPA did consist of limits 
that applied to his benefit and he was made aware of these when he submitted his 
claim. His policy terms and conditions were also clear in explaining what the limits 
were. I understand Mr M thinks WPA needs to change its practices. However, its not 
our role to look at the practices of a financial business but to look at the individual 
merits of a complaint. I cannot therefore comment on the practices of WPA. 
Ive taken everything into account and looked at the individual circumstances of Mr 
Ms complaint. Overall, I dont think WPA has acted out of line of the policy terms and 
conditions or declined to pay costs unfairly or unreasonably. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr M but I dont think WPA needs to do anything further. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against Western Provident 
Association Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman