DRN-4057556
The complaint
Miss O complains that Starling Bank Limited failed to refund transactions she didnt 
recognise and acted in a discriminatory way towards her.
What happened
Miss O notified Starling about a series of unrecognised transactions, fraud and payment 
disputes. She also raised an issue regarding her treatment by Starling. This complaint 
relates only to the unrecognised card payments and her treatment during her interaction with 
Starling.
What Miss O says
Miss O contacted Starling via their chat system on 25 November 2022 and reported several 
cash withdrawals had been made that she didnt recognise. These took place on 12,16 and 
17 November 2022. During the chat Miss O said she still had her purse, but her card was 
missing.
Miss O confirmed she hadnt written her personal identification number (PIN) down and 
thought that someone had seen her enter her PIN when shed entered it into a machine 
(cash machine).
Starling asked Miss O if she recognised a further payment made on 21 November 2022 at a 
shop. Miss O said it wasnt her and whilst she had used that particular shop, she generally 
used a different method to make payments.
Miss O initially believed the transactions were made using the contactless feature on her 
card which didnt require her PIN. Starling got back in touch with Miss O to gather some 
more information. Several days later, Miss O responded to Starling and told them that she 
lost her card at 14:30 (2:30 pm) on 12 November 2022 along with other cards and her purse. 
Miss O said that she thought someone may have been watching her and they were 
responsible for the disputed transactions.
Miss O told Starling that she was having difficulties dealing with the issue. Starling asked 
Miss O if they could adapt their approach to assist her and it was agreed that Miss Os 
additional requirements could be logged with Starling, and it was agreed to use written 
communication.
Early the next month, Starling notified Miss O that they werent going to refund the disputed 
transactions and Miss O raised a complaint. Miss O was unhappy that she hadnt received a 
refund and how she was treated by Starling, also alleging she was discriminated against.
What Starling said
Starling received notification from Miss O about the unrecognised transactions and gathered 
information from both her and their own systems. They concluded that Miss O was 
responsible for them, believing that her version of events changed during the investigation. 
Starling were also dealing with a number of other claims at the same time from Miss O. 
Starling accepted theyd let Miss O down with their service and should have listened to her 
more and been more caring and considerate. Starling apologised and offered £30 for the 
poor service theyd given to Miss O.
Starling dealt with the loss of Miss Os card as a separate complaint and wrote to her with 
their final response. Starling didnt accept that theyd acted unfairly or discriminated against 
Miss O and didnt offer any refund for the disputed transactions.
The investigation so far
Miss O continued to believe shed been treated unfairly and was due a refund for those 
transactions she disputed due to the loss of her card. She brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was looked into by one of 
our investigators.
Both parties were asked for information about the situation and Miss O gave further details:
Miss O was going to collect someone and a man (giving a brief description of him) 
followed her, crept up towards her coat and pulled her purse out of her pocket. The 
purse contained her cards.
Miss O attempted to stop him, but he quickly left and she couldnt get a better 
description.
Miss O contacted Starling to cancel the card but was told because the card was still 
being used it couldnt be cancelled until the transactions had settled.
The disputed transactions used the contactless feature of the card so didnt need the 
PIN.
Miss O was treated unfairly and discriminated against.
Miss O was informed the disputed transactions from the cash withdrawals used the PIN and 
she was asked how they could have known it? Miss O was also asked for further information 
about the way the bank had treated her.
Miss O said that the person who took it had a mate and he had been around before when 
she last used the card in the (cash) machine and saw her put her number in, so when they 
saw her a second time, they took her card.
Miss O said that the way Starling treated her has put a big effect on my life and my 
circumstances as I feel very ashamed and absolutely disgusted in the bank.
Miss O said that the last time she used her card was on 8 November 2022 and there was a 
suspicious man behind her.
Starling provided data about their interactions with Miss O and records of the disputed 
transactions. Including:
Copies of app chats between Miss O and Starling detailing her responses to 
Starlings questions.
Copies of app chats with Miss O where she records further fraud/dispute and 
customer service claims.Copy of an app chat dated 14 November 2022 where Miss O asks about withdrawing 
£170 cash from a (cash) machine on 17 November 2022 and a further chat about on 
15 November 2022 £180 withdrawal from a cash machine. 
Audit data of the disputed transactions.
After considering the evidence, the investigator didnt think that Starling should have to make 
a refund to Miss O. Apart from the earlier service apology and £30 payment, no evidence 
was found that Starling had been unfair to Miss O or discriminated against her. The 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss O disagreed and asked for a further review of her complaint saying that wed gone with 
the bank which was totally unacceptable and discriminatory towards her. Miss O reiterated 
that the police investigators believed she should receive a refund.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss O has raised several issues with Starling and received responses to those. When she 
brought her complaint to our service, it was specifically in relation to the disputed 
transactions from the loss of her card and how she was treated throughout. For the 
avoidance of doubt, my decision will only deal with those specific issues. 
Disputed transactions
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Starling can hold Miss O liable for the disputed payments if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Starling can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Miss O authorised 
the transactions, but Starling cannot say that the use of the card and PIN conclusively 
proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Starling can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Miss Os account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Miss O. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Miss O responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
What was apparent to me from the start of this complaint is that there were several different 
versions of what happened as described by Miss O. 
Firstly she told Starling her card was missing but she still had her purse.
Later she told Starling that shed lost her purse with the card in it.
Later she said up that her purse was stolen by a man who also had an accomplice.
When Miss O first told Starling about the unrecognised transactions, this was thirteen days after the first cash withdrawal and four days after the last unrecognised transaction. Miss O 
said she lost her card just prior to the first transaction and said shed called Starling about it 
and was told that the card couldnt be cancelled until the current transactions had settled. 
Starling have said that the first they knew of the issue was on 25 November 2022 during the 
chat. I havent seen any evidence of an earlier conversation regarding this issue and Id very 
much doubt that Starling would tell someone they couldnt block the card straight away. 
Thats because Starling have an obligation to protect their customers funds and if they didnt 
block the card, they themselves would be liable for any further unauthorised spend on it. I 
dont think any responsible bank would knowingly operate like that.
In order to use the card to withdraw cash, it requires the PIN. Miss O suggested that the man 
who took the card and his accomplice had viewed her using it sometime before. Records 
indicate that the last use of the card and PIN was some weeks earlier. I just dont think its 
plausible that Miss O was targeted by two men and her PIN observed, to then have her card 
taken weeks later.
If, as Miss O claims, she was effectively robbed in the street, then I would expect she would 
have informed the police straight away and Starling. Theres no record of this until she 
notifies Starling on 25 November and theres a police report later that same month. If Miss O 
had notified Starling at the time (as she claims) her card would have been protected 
because Starling would most likely have blocked it at that point.
Miss O was in contact with Starling on several occasion between the date she said her card 
was stolen and the day she actually reported it. Two of those chats was to ask about the 
daily credit limit for a cash withdrawal she was planning to make on 17 November 2022. Her 
card would have been required to do that, but theres no mention in any earlier chats about 
the loss of the card. 
I havent seen any plausible reason to uphold this part of the complaint and Miss Os version 
of events are difficult to accept given that theyve been inconsistent. So, I think its more 
likely than not that Miss O was responsible for these transactions, and it was reasonable for 
Starling to hold her liable for them.
Unfair treatment
Starling accepted that theyd let Miss O down with aspects of their customer service, but not 
that theyd discriminated towards her. Starling apologised for the service she received and 
made an offer of compensation of £30. I think in the circumstances this was a reasonable 
way to address the service that Miss O received and Im not recommending any change to 
this. 
Miss O has said that Starling acted in a way that was discriminatory towards her. I can see 
that she told Starling that she suffers from anxiety and depression and that this can effect 
her when she gets blamed for things. I can also see that she told Starling that she has a 
condition that causes her fits and because of this she has memory loss. But other than 
communicating in a different way  which I can see Starling did  I cant see that Miss O told 
Starling that her mental health or her condition had an impact on its handling of her disputed 
transaction claim or the outcome. So, when Miss O said that Starling had acted in a 
discriminatory way towards her  and that we had too  Im satisfied that she was using that 
word in its everyday sense and not in a legal sense. And that what she was saying what that 
Starling had essentially treated her unfairly.
Ive read the interactions between both parties and can see that Miss O told Starling about 
the difficulties she faced that made dealing with her situation even more challenging. Starling sought her permission to record these details and put in place an agreed way to 
communicate with her to minimise additional stress. Im satisfied this was a reasonable way 
for Starling to take Miss Os additional needs into account.
Ive not found any evidence that Starling approached the issue based on anything other than 
the activity on Miss Os account. And its consistent with how theyve responded to similar 
concerns elsewhere. So, Im satisfied that theyve not treated Miss O any differently than 
they would any other customer but accept that they let her down with aspects of their 
customer service unrelated to any allegations of discrimination. More importantly, even 
though I can see Miss O was unhappy with the outcome, I dont think Starling treated her 
unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman