DRN-2271926
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mrs G took out (jointly with 
her husband, who has since died) on the advice of Aviva Equity Release UK Limited. The 
advice to take out the mortgage was given in 2004, but the transaction actually completed in 
early 2005. The complaint is that the lifetime mortgage was mis-sold. The complaint has 
been brought by Mr G, who is Mrs Gs son and attorney.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mrs G and her husband took the mortgage out in February 2005, having started the process 
of applying for it in September 2004. The terms of the mortgage provide that no monthly 
repayments are required. The intention is that the mortgage is due to be repaid if the last 
surviving borrower goes into full-time nursing care or after their death. It can be repaid 
voluntarily before either of those events have happened, but then an ERC is usually payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
Mrs Gs husband died in 2014. Her son, Mr G, brought this complaint in 2019 on his 
mothers behalf. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mr G asked for 
the case to be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair 
in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mrs G and her husband 
were consumers, and so each met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our 
rules. Following her husbands death, Mrs G became sole eligible complainant. 
Our rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a 
person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Mr G is 
bringing the complaint on his mothers behalf.
But I must explain that, although Mr G represents his mother, it is Mrs G who is Avivas 
customer. Its Mr Gs role is to bring the complaint on her behalf, in the same way that other 
consumers might instruct a solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. But this 
does not entitle Mr G to air his own grievances about Aviva, because he is not its customer; 
his role is limited to putting forward Mrs Gs complaint.
In this decision I have looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the relevant time) and considered generally whether Aviva did 
anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In doing that, I can give no regard to the 
regulatory standards in place now, or to any hindsight that the intervening years might have 
brought.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete (inevitable in a case such as this where the sale 
happened so long ago) and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what we consider is 
most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test 
that the courts use in civil cases.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2004. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual 
recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be 
inaccurate or contradictory. So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information 
is inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it.
Before I address the sale itself, Ill address Mr Gs concerns about the status of the advisor. 
Mr G says Aviva had a duty to ensure his parents obtained independent financial advice on 
the suitability of the mortgage. Im afraid hes substantially misdirected himself there. 
Advisers could either be independent or could represent a financial business; the duty they 
had was to disclose which status applied to them. The standard method of doing that (at the 
time and indeed now) is for the advisor to give the client a terms of business letter. 
Unfortunately, thats one of the documents thats no longer available so Aviva hasnt been 
able to provide a copy to prove its existence. So thats where the balance of probabilities 
comes in. It was, as Ive said, standard practice to provide one, so to conclude that one 
wasnt on this occasion, I have to have a reason to find that the advisor departed from 
standard practice and failed to tell Mrs G and her husband he was Avivas agent. 
Mr G hasnt given me a reason to think the advisor did anything different from the norm. But 
in any event, the advisors status as a tied agent isnt only disclosed in the terms of business 
letter. Its also recorded on the application form for the mortgage, which Mrs G and her 
husband signed, declaring the information contained therein to be accurate and truthful. So 
on balance, I think it more likely than not that Mrs G and her husband were informed that 
they were dealing with a tied agent who could only advise on Aviva products.Staying with the mortgage application form for a moment, this also recorded that Mrs G and 
her husband had discussed the proposed transaction with family. This is another bone of 
contention; Mr G says this didnt happen and that neither he nor either of his siblings recall 
being present at the interview as recorded in the advisors suitability letter. Indeed, he says 
hes insulted by the implication that he and his siblings have misremembered what did or 
didnt happen in 2004.
Ive no way of knowing whether the advisors recording on the suitability letter of one of their 
sons being present at the interview is accurate or not. As I said earlier, the point-of sale-
documentation isnt fool-proof. But even if I treat it as a mistake, it isnt on its own a reason 
to find that the mortgage was mis-sold to Mrs G and her husband. 
Thats because its not a requirement (whether legal, moral, regulatory or any other reason) 
for equity release applicants to involve their family in the transaction. If they do not, thats not 
evidence of a procedural failing on the part of the advisor; its more likely to just be an 
indication that the applicants wished to keep their business private. The advisor should 
recommend applicants tell their family, and in signing the application, Mrs G and her 
husband confirmed theyd done so. 
As to the sale itself, the information-gathering exercise identified specific financial objectives. 
It also indicated, notwithstanding what Mr G says now, that Mrs G and her husband were in 
need of some form of borrowing if they were to be able to realise those stated objectives. 
They had some savings, but didnt want to break into them. Mr G endorsed that point in his 
letter to Aviva of 7 January 2020 when he said: Their savings were my father's cushion and 
he would definitely not have considered using them. 
So Ive next considered whether something other than a lifetime mortgage would have been 
a better option. Given the overall financial circumstances that prevailed at the time, it 
shouldnt be assumed that Mrs G and her husband would have been accepted for another 
traditional mortgage, given their age. Meanwhile, Mr G acknowledges, again in his letter of 
7 January 2020, that releasing equity by downsizing wasnt an option. Mr G said: in any 
event it is difficult to imagine a smaller property than a one bedroom, one reception room 
flat!
It may not have been his intention, but by his own evidence, Mr G has actually made the 
case for equity release (which required no monthly repayment) being probably the only 
viable option for Mrs G and her husband in 2004 given the circumstances recorded at the 
time. Whether the plans for the money being raised came to fruition after the mortgage was 
arranged doesnt affect the suitability or otherwise of the advice given at the time.
Its possible that after the mortgage had gone through, Mrs G and her husband subsequently 
changed their minds about what theyd do with the money, but Avivas duty was to give 
suitable advice, which Im satisfied it did. Aviva couldnt insist Mrs G and her husband follow 
every aspect of the advice it had given them. Nor was it obliged to monitor its customers 
behaviour after the sale to ensure they did what theyd said they were going to do.
That brings me to the question of health. The suitability letter recorded that Mrs G and her 
husband were generally in good health. Its reasonable to infer that this information came 
from Mrs G and her husband during the fact-find interview, and I again come back to the fact 
that Mrs G and her husband declared the information theyd given the advisor to be correct 
when they applied for the mortgage. 
Mr G has said this wasnt true and that in his opinion, his father was already suffering from 
Alzheimers. The difficulty there is that Mr G hasnt adduced any medical evidence from that time to support his argument. This isnt actually something on which I can make a finding, 
not even on the balance of probabilities. To attempt to do so would require me to go beyond 
assessing what is most likely and resort to mere speculation; Im not prepared to do that. 
However, I dont believe I need to in order to decide this complaint. 
Before the mortgage could proceed, Mrs G and her husband were required to have 
independent advice from a solicitor, who certified (by means of a document known at the 
time as a SHIP certificate) that the terms of the mortgage had been explained to Mrs G and 
her husband, and that theyd understood them. 
The SHIP certificate is also one of the documents thats no longer available, but again, Mr G 
hasnt argued that he thinks it wasnt issued. Hes merely contrasted the solicitors role with 
his understanding (flawed - for the reasons I outlined earlier in this decision) of the advisors 
role. 
As with the terms of business letter, Id need to have a compelling reason to find that the 
solicitor Mrs G and her husband instructed didnt complete the SHIP certificate. And just as 
with the terms of business letter, I dont have a reason to conclude anything other than that 
the SHIP certificate was issued. I think that if there were any concerns that Mrs G and her 
husband didnt understand (or werent capable of understanding) the nature and effect of 
what they were signing, the solicitor wouldnt have provided the certification and allowed 
them to proceed. 
Next, there is that matter of the accrued interest since the mortgage started in 2004, and the 
extent to which that has eroded the equity position. Mr G says the rate Aviva has applied is 
excessive. Having no regulatory function means its not my role to decide if a particular 
interest rate is fair or not. So I can only comment in general terms.
The rate charged is 7.29%, fixed for the duration of the mortgage. The use of fixed rather 
than variable rates have always been normal on equity release mortgages, as they enable a 
lender to forecast the likely growth in the debt over time as the interest rolls up. 
Thats important to the lender, from a risk assessment point of view when deciding how 
much to lend. But it also gives a degree of clarity to the borrower about how their debt will 
grow over time, because that forecast can be incorporated into the mortgage offer, as it was 
in this case. 
Yes, 7.29% sounds very high in the current climate. But this rate was set in 2005, when the 
financial landscape was very different from what it is now. For much of the first decade of the 
21st century, the general expectation was that rates generally were already low and more 
likely to rise than fall over the short to medium term. All that changed in late 2007/early 2008, 
when the financial crisis struck, and rates plummeted to record lows from which theyve still 
not moved significantly. That could not possibly have been forecast in 2005. 
When youre as close to a difficult situation as Mr G has been for so long here, its a natural 
subjective reaction to see things in a particular way. But I have a different remit. I have to be 
objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means stepping back from the fine detail and 
taking an overview. It also means that Im not required to provide answers to every specific 
question that comes up, if I dont consider doing so will affect the overall outcome.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman