DRN-1803783
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that HSBC Life (UK) Limited has stopped paying her monthly benefit 
following a successful claim on her former employers group income protection policy. 
What happened
Mrs T is the beneficiary of her employers group income protection scheme. In 2016 she 
became absent from work due to suffering with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and 
because she needed abdominal surgery. In 2017 HSBC accepted a claim she made on the 
income protection policy and began to pay her a monthly benefit.
A few months later Mrs T was diagnosed with severe osteoarthritis in her knees. She started 
to have steroid injections in her knees and was later referred to the pain clinic. Mrs T 
continued to receive the monthly benefit. In December 2018 HSBC stopped making the 
payments but restarted them again in March 2019. They paid the monthly benefit up until the 
point that the policy switched from providing cover Mrs T for being unable to do her own 
occupation to providing cover for her being unable to do any suitable occupation. Mrs T says 
she is unable to work and HSBC should pay her claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She upheld the claim in part because she 
didnt think HSBC should have stopped making the payments in December 2018. She noted 
that HSBC had paid Mrs T for the missed payments but said that they should pay 8% simple 
interest if they hadnt done so already and £100 compensation. However, she didnt think it 
was unreasonable for HSBC to decline to pay the claim from May 2019, once the policy 
terms switched based on the available evidence. 
HSBC accepted the investigators recommendation. Mrs T didnt agree. In summary, she 
says that HSBC didnt get an up to date assessment of her functionality and therefore the 
evidence doesnt fairly reflect her restrictions and capabilities. And she doesnt think HSBC 
have followed the correct procedure. Mrs T also explained that she didnt have the functional 
ability to sustain sitting for long periods of time. She highlighted that the policy terms no 
longer include the switch in terms two years into a claim. Mrs T has since had her contract of 
employment terminated and I understand that shes taking her former employer to an 
employment tribunal.
 So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant policy terms and conditions
The policy terms and conditions say that the monthly benefit will be paid if Mrs T meets the 
definition of incapacity. 
For the first 24 months the claim is assessed an own occupation definition. After that point 
has passed the claim is assessed on a suited occupation definition. 
Own occupation is defined as: 
The generic occupation that is performed on the Date First Absent on an initial or 
subsequent claim 
The definition of incapacity during the period of cover for Own occupation is: 
The Member is unable, by reason of illness or injury, to perform the Material and 
Substantial duties of his or her Occupation and is not following any other Occupation. 
Suited occupation is defined as: 
Any generic Occupation that the Member is suited to by reason of training, education 
and experience. 
The definition of incapacity during the period of cover for Suited occupation is: 
The Member is: 
Unable, by reason of illness or injury, to perform the material and Substantial 
duties of his or her Own Occupation, and 
Unable by reason of Illness of injury to perform the Material and Substantial 
duties of each and every occupation for which they are Suited by way of 
training, education and experience, and 
Not following any other Occupation. 
Was it reasonable for HSBC to terminate the claim in May 2019? 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that HSBC has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Where HSBC has accepted a claim its for them to demonstrate that it was a reasonable 
decision to stop paying the benefit. HSBC has accepted that it shouldnt have stopped 
paying the claim in December 2018 and agreed to pay 8% simple interest together with £100 
compensation. So the key issue for me to decide is whether it was reasonable for them to 
terminate the claim when the policy terms switched from own occupation to suited 
occupation. 
Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint because: 
I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to conclude that Mrs T wasnt able, by 
reason of her illness or injury, to perform the duties of each and every occupation for 
which she was suited due to her training, education and experience
 The Functional Capability Assessment (FCA) from October 2018 said that Mrs T was 
fit to return to some work with adjustments. Mrs T says that a further report should 
have been completed as it wasnt a true reflection of her restrictions and capabilities 
when the claim was later terminated. But I dont think the evidence suggests that 
Mrs Ts condition significantly changed or deteriorated between October 2018 and 
March 2019, to such an extent that a further report was required. She was receiving 
steroid injections every few months and was being seeing by the pain clinic. I dont 
think that a further functionality report would have added to HSBCs understanding of 
Mrs Ts abilities at that time as very little had changed since the last report and 
particularly because the assessor had found Mrs T able to do her own occupation, 
albeit with adjustments. So, it seems unlikely to me that a further report would have 
reached a different conclusion, or added much, given the circumstances of this case
HSBC did arrange for Mrs T to be assessed for transferrable skills in June 2019. I 
think that was reasonable, especially given that the payments had stopped and Mrs T 
had challenged that decision 
The transferrable skills report concluded Mrs T should be able to return to the 
workplace, to complete the vast majority of her pre-absence duties, with the suitable 
adjustments detailed above. Alternatively, she may consider the other roles, which 
she would also be able to sustain. The report identified that Mrs T could carry out 
other jobs based on her state of health, training, education and experience. I 
appreciate that Mrs T feels this overlooks her inability to sit for prolonged periods of 
time. But I think the assessor did take this into account because it is referred to in the 
report and he noted that Mrs T would need regular breaks to be able to mobilise. So, 
I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to rely on this report when they concluded 
Mrs T didnt meet the definition of incapacity for any suited occupation 
Mrs T has pointed to reports from her GP and occupational health which she says 
support her claim. But the occupational health report relies on Mrs Ts reporting of 
her condition. It also doesnt offer a detailed opinion on her capabilities in the 
workplace and it isnt clear whether the assessor had access to all of the relevant 
medical information. Similarly, the reports from Mrs Ts GP dont offer a detailed 
opinion on her functionality and ability to work
  
I appreciate that Mrs T has been awarded two different types of benefit based upon 
her health conditions. Im aware that the evidence was considered by a tribunal in 
court. But my role is to consider the policy terms and conditions and whether HSBC 
has acted reasonably when stopping paying the claim. It doesnt automatically follow 
that if the Department for Work and Pensions agrees to pay benefits that the policy 
should pay out too. Thats because the policy has specific definitions of incapacity 
and therefore has a different criteria to a state benefits assessment 
Mrs T has mentioned that the policy terms have since been amended. Its unclear 
whether this is because Mrs Ts former employers have enhanced the level of cover 
for their employees. But, in any event, I need to decide Mrs Ts complaint on the 
basis of the policy terms at the relevant time. So, this doesnt change my thoughts 
about the outcome of this complaint
 
I accept that Mrs T was caused some distress and inconvenience when HSBC 
stopped paying her claim. But theyve agreed to pay 8% simple interest and £100 
compensation. I think that fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused.  Putting things right
Im upholding Mrs Ts complaint in part and direct HSBC to pay 8% simple interest on the 
missed payments from the date they should have been paid until the date they were paid 
(the date of settlement), if they havent done so already. They should also pay £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience in stopping paying the benefits
If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs T a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ts complaint in part and directing HSBC Life (UK) Ltd to put things right 
in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman