DRN-2000041
The complaint
Mr A complains that Retail Money Market Ltd trading as Ratesetter irresponsibly lent to him. 
Mr A says he shouldnt have been lent the loan as he was in debt with other lenders and had 
a gambling problem.  
What happened
Ratesetter lent Mr a one loan in April 2016, the loan was for £4,500 and Mr A needed to 
repay it in 36 monthly instalments of £149.25. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that this complaint should be upheld for these reasons:
Based on the available information, Im not satisfied that the Ratesetter carried out 
sufficient checks. I say this for a number of reasons, firstly the loan was for 36 
months and so Ratesetter needed to satisfy itself that Mr A could afford the payment 
throughout the term.  Also, the results of Ratesetters credit search showed that Mr A 
had a recent default recorded against him and that he was repaying at least four 
other creditors, the credit he was repaying was around 30% of his declared monthly 
income. So, in addition to the checks it carried out I think Ratesetter should have 
taken steps to verify Mr As financial position to get a clear picture of his 
circumstances. As Ratesetter didnt do this, I dont think it did enough before 
agreeing to lend.
Ratesetter has argued that it took into account joint household income, but I dont 
think this was reasonable. The loan was in Mr As sole name and the affordability of 
the loan should have been assessed based solely on his circumstances. 
Mr A has provided copies of his bank statements which Ive used to understand his 
actual financial circumstances at the time the loan was agreed. Ive used this as it is 
the closest evidence of Mr As circumstances at the time of the loan. From what I can 
see, Mr A was repaying around £620 to other creditors. Ratesetter has said Mr As 
reason for borrowing was to consolidate his other credit, but it hasnt provided 
evidence to show what Mr A was specifically consolidating. 
The bank statements also show that Mr A was gambling significant sums of his 
income of around £1,900, in his bank statement issued just before the loan, Mr A 
gambled around £920. This was a pattern that continued and in the following month, 
Mr A spent around £830 on gambling transactions. These transactions were in 
addition to Mr As other living costs, like food and transport.
In these circumstances, had Ratesetter taken the necessary steps to carry out 
sufficient checks, its likely to have found that Mr A couldnt sustainably repay the 
loan over the term. The fact that Mr A fully repaid the loan doesnt persuade me that 
he did sustainably. I think its clear from a closer look at Mr As financial 
circumstances that he had more outgoings than earnings.
In these circumstances as a responsible lender, Ratesetter shouldnt have lent to 
Mr A.  
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr As complaint and Ratesetter needs to put 
things right.
Putting things right
I order Ratesetter to:
refund all the interest and charges applied to the loan, and;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file as a result of the interest 
and charges on these loans.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Ratesetter to take off tax from this interest. Retail Money must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint about Retail Money Market Ltd should be upheld.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman