DRN-3955569
The complaint
Miss A complains that Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Ltd (VM Unit Trust Managers) 
caused a delay in the transfer of her ISA to another provider. She says she lost the 
opportunity to reinvest in new units which have risen in price. And she says she wants 
compensation for her time and for the stress shes been caused.
What happened
Miss A had a stocks and shares ISA with VM Unit Trust Managers. She says she decided to 
transfer to a new provider, who Ill refer to as A, when she was told about new charges 
which were being introduced. She says she requested the transfer on 11 August 2021, but it 
wasnt completed until 25 November 2021. She says she made many phone calls but that 
VM Unit Trust Managers sat on her application, put obstacles in the way of the transfer, 
and provided excuses for the delay.
VM Unit Trust Managers said it didnt receive a valuation request from A until 30 September 
and, whilst it sent the valuation to A, it wasnt received. It re-sent the valuation on 
10 November and the transfer request was received on 23 November and processed on the 
same day. In its final response to Miss As complaint VM Unit Trust Managers said that A 
sent the valuation request to a different Virgin Money company who forwarded it on. But it 
told us that, whilst it was likely the original request was sent to a different part of 
Virgin Money, it wasnt forwarded onto VM Unit Trust Managers.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
there wasnt evidence to suggest VM Unit Trust Managers had received any contact from A 
until 30 September. And she didnt think VM Unit Trust Managers was responsible for the 
delay in the ISA transfer.
Miss A didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
The complex organisational structure in Virgin Money caused the delay  she chased 
VM Unit Trust Managers many times, but her request was stuck between departments.
Even when VM Unit Trust Managers received the valuation request on 30 September, it 
didnt process the transfer until 23 November.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. I havent listed everything that Miss A has told us and Im not going to 
respond to every point shes made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Secondly, the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints 
and to award redress where appropriate. I do not perform the role of the industry regulator 
and I do not have the power to make rules for financial businesses or to punish them. Nor is 
our role to improve the industry. Thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). For these reasons I wont be responding to Miss As concerns about the 
structure of the business, the way it operates, and its procedures. 
Having carefully considered everything, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator for the following reasons:
Im satisfied that VM Unit Trust Managers didnt receive any communication from A until 
30 September 2021 when it received a valuation request.
VM Unit Trust Managers sent the requested valuation within four working days, which 
I dont find to be unreasonable. A says it didnt receive the valuation. But Im satisfied 
from the information VM Unit Trust Managers has provided, that the valuation was sent, 
correctly addressed to A, on 5 October.
As it hadnt received the transfer instructions from A, VM Unit Trust Managers re-sent it 
the valuation on 10 November. I think this was reasonable, taking into account that it was 
for A to progress the transfer request.
Im satisfied that VM Unit Trust Managers received the transfer instructions from A on 
23 November 2011, and that it processed the transfer on the same day.
VM Unit Trust Managers ISA terms and conditions say it will, try to complete your 
transfer by your chosen date, subject to allowing us a reasonable period (not exceeding 
30 days) to carry out your request. (12.5) Whilst Miss A signed the transfer request form 
on 11 August, it wasnt received by VM Unit Trust Managers until 30 September. The 
transfer couldnt be completed until A had confirmed it was ready to accept the transfer  
it first needed a valuation of the ISA to check that it could accept Miss As assets. As set 
out above, Im satisfied that VM Unit Trust Managers sent that valuation, but 
unfortunately it wasnt received. So Im satisfied that VM Unit Trust Managers carried out 
Miss As request within a reasonable period, in line with its terms and conditions, and 
that the delays were caused by it not receiving the valuation request until 30 September, 
and not receiving the transfer request until 23 November.
VM Unit Trust Managers said in its response to Miss As complaint that the valuation 
request was forwarded to it by another Virgin Money business. Its since told us that this 
explanation was wrong. It said its likely A sent the original request to another Virgin 
Money business, and that the correspondence would have been returned to sender. This 
does seem to me to be the most likely explanation.
I appreciate the stress the delay caused Miss A. But, as I dont find VM Unit Trust 
Managers did something wrong that led to the delay in the transfer, I cant order it to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience the delay caused.
Miss A says she had to make several phone calls and that VM Unit Trust Managers 
didnt take any action. Unfortunately, Miss A cant recall the dates of the phone calls. And 
VM Unit Trust Managers records dont show that Miss A made any contact with it until 
she phoned to complain on 28 September. So, in the circumstances, I cant conclude 
that VM Unit Trust Managers treated her unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman