DRN-2599351
The complaint
Mr M complains that Pet Protect Ltd failed to renew his pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ms annual pet insurance policy was due to renew automatically in February 2020.
However in April, Mr M noticed that no payments had been taken. He contacted Pet Protect 
who act as a broker. Their role is to arrange the contract of insurance and carry out any 
administration on it.
 
Pet Protect explained that due to a technical error, they hadnt renewed the insurance policy. 
They apologised, arranged to have the policy reinstated in April 2020 and backdated to the 
renewal date. They initially asked Mr M to pay the monthly payments that hadnt been 
collected for February and March, but then decided that as it was their error, they would 
waive the outstanding payments that would have been taken, had the policy renewed when 
it should have done. 
Mr M was unhappy with this. He felt that had a claim been made within the months he was 
without cover, his dog wouldnt have been treated and he would have been exposed 
financially. 
Pet Protect explained that a claim wasnt made, but, even if one had been made, cover 
would have been provided subject to the payment of the missed payments.
 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Pet Protect had acted fairly in waiving the missed 
payments. He explained that, as the cancellation was Pet Protects mistake, they would have 
covered any claims in line with the terms of the policy, and the policy would still have been 
valid. He was satisfied that by not collecting the payments due, they had treated Mr M fairly. 
Mr M disagreed. He remained unhappy that the policy hadnt been renewed without him 
knowing and reiterated that he was concerned about potential costs arising when the policy 
wasnt in place. 
Because of this, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked into everything, I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
This services role, should something go wrong, is to put a consumer back into the position 
they would have been in, had that wrong not happened. In this case, had Mr Ms insurance 
policy renewed correctly, he would have continued to pay the monthly payments and cover 
would have been in place for the year ahead without a break. However, the cover didnt 
renew, and that was Pet Protects mistake. 
I know Mr M is concerned that because Pet Protect didnt renew the policy, it meant he was 
without cover for a few months. I also agree that had he not checked his direct debit, the 
policy may have not been renewed for even longer. But Mr M did check his direct debit, and 
the policy was reinstated in April 2020.
 
So what I need to think about is whether Mr M lost out as a result of what happened. And I 
dont think he did. 
In the time he was without cover, Mr M didnt need to make a claim and so didnt lose 
anything in that respect. In any event, had a claim been made, the policy would have been 
applied as it would have done, had it renewed correctly.
 
As outlined above, Pet Protect were acting as a broker and a credit provider. I should explain 
Mr M entered into an annual insurance policy. And it would be the insurer who would require 
the annual premium to be paid in full and for the policy to be backdated to the renewal date. 
In this case, Mr M entered into a finance agreement which is provided by Pet Protect to pay 
the annual premium over monthly instalments. So, the annual premium is paid by Pet 
Protect to the insurer, and Mr M then pays Pet Protect monthly under the terms of the credit 
agreement. So I dont think it was unfair for Pet Protect to initially say Mr M needed to make 
the payments due in February and March 2020.
I understand this matter would have caused Mr M a lot of worry and concern and I agree it 
shouldnt have happened. But, given everything, Im satisfied Pet Protect have done enough 
to put things right by apologising for their service not reaching their usual high standards in 
their correspondence to Mr M, immediately putting things right in reinstating the policy and 
by not requiring him to make up the missed payments.
Because of this, I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman