DRN-3227398
The complaint
 Mr B complained that Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited mis-sold him a motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr B took out a telematics policy in November via an insurance comparison website. 
However in the following January his policy was cancelled because of his driving behaviour, 
driving at a very high speed.
Mr B said he hadnt known that his policy was affected by driver behaviour and had thought 
it was affected only by what mileage he did. In fact his policy was affected by both mileage 
and driver behaviour. 
Mr B said that Endsleigh, his insurance broker, had misrepresented and mis sold the policy 
to him. He said that he now couldnt get any alternative insurance because of the 
cancellation. He wanted Endsleigh to put him back in the position he would have been in if 
they hadnt mis sold the policy.
For clarity I will refer throughout to Mr B the complainant, although his father, also Mr B, has 
brought the complaint on his behalf.
Endsleigh didnt agree that they mis sold the policy. They said as follows. The policy wording 
highlighted that his insurance could be cancelled due to poor driving behaviour. Theyd given 
Mr B the chance to read and understand the policy wording before he bought it and he had 
confirmed that hed done so. 
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. They thought that 
Endsleigh hadnt acted unfairly. Mr B didnt agree and so I have been asked to decide.
Mr B also complained about the basis on which the policy was cancelled , but our service 
has dealt with that as a separate complaint and so I dont comment on that here.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr Bs policy and it says on page 5 :
 
Driver/driving behaviour
 Your Endsleigh Loop device will measure and transmit various aspects of how the car is 
driven. These measurements will include (but are not limited to) the speed throughout the 
journey, braking frequency and force, acceleration, cornering and sudden manoeuvres,
miles travelled, the types of routes taken (e.g. A-roads, motorways, country lanes), time and 
date of travel and the cars location. This telematics data will be used by us to determine 
driver behaviour.
On page 23 it says We, or an agent providing services on our behalf, can cancel this policy 
by sending you 7 days notice where there is a valid reason for doing so. 
Valid reasons may include but are not limited to If driver behaviour is consistently poor or 
if you drive at unacceptably high speeds.
But Mr B said that the comparison website didnt highlight that Endsleighs quotation was 
based on driving behaviour and instead distinguished between 'Telematics Mileage' and 
'Telematics Mileage and Behaviour'. He said he wanted the first one because he thought 
that there was no behaviour element. He said that the website had changed their wording 
since he bought his policy because it was misleading. Endsleigh accepted that the wording 
has changed but said this was due to a regular review and not Mr Bs complaint. Ive no 
reason to disbelieve Endsleigh about that, but in any event, Im looking at the whole 
application and sales process. 
Mr B said that during the online application process, Mr B chose what he thought was the 
mileage policy version and it took him to Endsleighs webpage. He felt that Endsleighs 
webpage didnt do anything else to suggest that the policy was affected by driving behaviour 
as well as mileage. He said that his belief that the policy was only affected by mileage was 
confirmed by him having to agree I have read and understand that I will have an Endsleigh 
Loop box in my car and my mileage will affect my Insurance  .
Ive looked at that evidence and see that Endsleighs application webpage begins with an 
introductory box which says as follows. The policyholder will have a working Endsleigh Loop 
box in their car that will track their driving, if they go over their mileage they will need to top 
up to keep their insurance running, they will be sent driving feedback so they know how 
theyre doing, and they can earn rewards with good driving.
I think that wording makes clear that the policy is affected by driving behaviour. Endsleighs 
website also required Mr B to confirm that he had read, understood, and accepted the policy 
wording before he bought the policy. Mr B did that. The policy clearly said that driving 
behaviour would be monitored and could lead to policy cancellation if driver behaviour were 
consistently poor or at unacceptably high speeds. Even if I were to accept that the 
comparison site wording was not fully clear as to the differences between a telematics 
mileage policy and any other, I think that Endsleighs webpage was.  
Endsleigh then wrote to Mr B confirming his insurance and giving him instructions about 
what to do next, such as setting up the black box, setting up his account and downloading 
their app.  It said: Your account and app will keep you in the Loop on how you are driving, 
and you will start seeing your driving feedback after 10 days, as long as you've driven at 
least 40 miles. I think that too suggested that driving behaviour would be monitored, and it 
wasnt just about mileage but about how he was driving. 
Mr B said Endsleighs link to the policy documents didnt work then and hadnt since. So he 
couldnt access the documents and was unaware that the policy monitored driving behaviour 
or that the policy could be cancelled for poor driving. He didnt say if he had contacted 
Endsleigh to say he couldnt view the terms and conditions, and Endsleigh had no record of 
him having done that.
Endsleigh partially upheld his complaint about the link not working and apologised for that , 
but they said Mr B had already confirmed during the application process that he had read 
and understood the policy. I agree with that. And Mr B had the option to query the broken 
link with Endsleigh but theres no persuasive evidence that he did that. Endsleighs file shows that Endsleigh wrote to him in November threatening to cancel his policy because he 
hadnt plugged in the black box which was a condition of his policy, so they could start to 
build up a picture of his driving style. That again suggested that driving behaviour was 
relevant. His policy was cancelled the following January for unacceptable speeding. 
Overall I think that Endsleigh reasonably explained what the policy did, and if Mr B wasnt 
sure he could have checked before he took out the policy and before he confirmed that he 
had read and understood the policy wording. I appreciate that the situation had a significant 
impact on Mr B and thats really unfortunate and I do realise that he will be disappointed. But 
on the basis of the information provided I cant reasonably say that Endsleigh did anything 
wrong and so I dont require them to do anything else. 
 
My final decision
For the reason Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
