DRN-3767277
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that GE Money Home Lending Limited, (GE) unfairly rejected their
claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mr and Mrs R are represented by firm of
solicitors, which I will refer to as S.
What happened
In January 2007 Mr and Mrs R bought a points-based timeshare from a timeshare supplier I
will call C. It cost some £!3,699 and this was funded in part by a point of sale loan taken from
GE which was paid off in May 2008. A second product was bought in March 2008 at a cost
of £ 9,039 funded by a point of sale loan which was paid off in May 2010.
In or around April 2020 S made a claim against GE on behalf of Mr and Mrs R for problems
they said they had encountered with the timeshare. S set out a list of issues which I will
summarise as follows:
Mr and Mrs R consider that C and GE misrepresented the timeshare product and 
breached the contract and regulations to purchase a timeshare
They say they were told if they upgraded for more points, they would be able to book 
from a larger choice of holidays and book during peak times. This was not true.
They were told this was an investment which would increase in value and would be 
easy to sell. This was not true. They eventually sold it at a loss.
C made false representations about the financial impact of a regulated credit 
agreement.
The maintenance fees increased substantially following the upgrade, this was not 
discussed at the time of sale.
The accommodation was very basic and inferior to other resorts they had used.
They were unaware of the extortionate interest rate being charged and this created 
an Unfair Term under the Unfair Contract Terms Regulations.
Proper credit checks were not carried out.
The terms of the loan were not fully explained.
They were not given adequate time to consider the terms of the agreement.
They were not aware they had purchased a floating week timeshare and not a 
specified apartment for a fixed week in the year.
They were subject to high pressure selling.
They clients were not properly informed, or were misled, or both, as to the duration of 
the regulated credit agreements.
The broker did not advise Mr and Mrs R of any commissions that had been paid in 
respect of the loan agreements and / or PPI policies, and the payment of the same 
makes the relationship unfair pursuant to section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974.

GE responded to the claim but said it had been brought too late under the provisions set out
in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It also said it did not consider the claims fell within the time
limits for this service to consider. It also said that the required debtor-creditor-supplier chain
was broken.
S brought a complaint to this service and argued that the timeshare was misrepresented by
C for much the same reasons they had set out in the claim to GE. S referenced legal
decisions regarding the making of loans which I will address in my findings.
It also argued that the timeshare agreement was null and void due to the impact of an EU
Directive regarding floating weeks timeshares. S said the terms of the contract were unfair
under consumer law. It argued that this meant the loan was also null and void.
Furthermore, it said that a proper affordability assessment had not been undertaken and it
referred to the processes of another bank, presumably in error.
It concluded there was no time limitation issue as the agreement was null and void. It said
that under s 140A Consumer Credit Act 1974 there was an unfair relationship.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but concluded that GE had acted fairly in
turning down the claim.
He thought that there were two potential claims Mr and Mrs R could have made under s.75
and s.140A CCA, but both claims had been brought too late under the provisions in the LA.
S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice, when I make my decision.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
So although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every
point that has been raised.
Having considered everything, I think there are several claims that Mr and Mrs R are making
to GE. I will consider each in turn.
The claim under s.75 CCA
GE has said the required chain is broken. S has since supplied a single page contract which
is described as the acquisition agreement between Mr and Mrs R and a vendor company I
will call L. The payment was made to L. It subsequently refers to the purchase of points from
L, but also say it is an application for membership of C. This is less than clear and it wouldappear that C and L are most likely associated companies as required under section 75.
However, I cannot reach a conclusion on this point, but as I do not consider the claim is
within time I do not consider it necessary to do so.
Mr and Mrs R said that C misrepresented the nature of the membership to them when they
bought it. However, under s.9 LA, Mr and Mrs R had to make that claim within six years of
when they entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  which were in January 2007
and March 2008  because that is when they say they lost out having relied on false
statement of fact.
As they first made a claim to GE in or around April 2020, that fell outside of the time limit set
out in the LA.
The claim under s.140A CCA
While only a court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is
relevant law, I have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under s.140A CCA. Under
s.9 LA Mr and Mrs R had to make their claim within six years of when the loans ended 
which was in May 2008 and May 2010. But as the claim was made in September 2021, it
was made outside of the time limit that applies.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the lime limits I have set out above can be
extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
S argues that an unfair relationship with the timeshare provider continued beyond May 2010
and, as the loan from GE had been used to fund the timeshare purchase, time for the
purposes of the LA did not start to run until the relationship had been brought to an end.
I am satisfied s.9 LA applies to this claim, not s.8 LA, as Mr and Mrs R are making a claim
for sums recoverable by statute
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). But once Mr and
Mrs R repaid the loan in full, the agreement between him and GE ended. As it was only the
relationship between Mr and Mrs R and GE that could be found unfair, limitation started to
run when the credit agreement ended.
Is the loan agreement voidable?
S argues that the timeshare agreement was null and void, which meant the related GE loan
was voidable and Mr and Mrs R now wish to exercise their right to rescind it. If the timeshare
agreement was voidable, I think it is likely that the related loan was also voidable on the
recission of the agreement it was used to fund. This is something that could be considered
under a s.140A CCA claim, but for the reasons I have already explained, I think that claim
was brought too late. But it could also be a freestanding claim in its own right, so I have
considered it separately. I also note that S had taken an extract from a previous decision I
made out of context in its arguments on this point. I do not think it supports their arguments
as they propose.
S has asked me to consider an EU Directive, some Spanish legislation and a Spanish court
judgment. They say that, taken together, they demonstrate that, a timeshare that provides
for a floating week or the ability to use points to book holidays with a provider, is a voidableagreement. I have considered this argument. But I do not agree Mr and Mrs Rs timeshare
agreement is voidable.
S has not supplied a full copy of the timeshare agreement but it is most likely governed by
English law, not Spanish law, so I do not think the Spanish judgment can be applied directly
to the question as to whether the contract is voidable under English law.
S has not asked me to consider any specific part of the relevant EU Directive or any other
provision (in English or European law) that would point to Mr and Mrs Rs timeshare being
voidable. Having read all of the relevant legislation, rules and regulations, I cannot see
anything that would have the effect Mr and Mrs Rs representative seeks. In fact, in the
recent House of Commons Library Briefing Paper, Timeshares: common problems faced by
UK owners, it was said that a floating week or points based timeshare were basic
timeshare models that were not described as being a problem in and of itself.
Further, these types of agreements fall within the definition of a timeshare contained within
the Timeshare Regulations 2010. Based on the evidence I have seen; I do not think either
the timeshare agreement nor the related credit agreement is voidable for the reasons said.
S 32
Typically s.32 applies to fraudulent misrepresentation but it does extend to concealment It
appears that Mr and Mrs R have raised a number of issues with the products. However, I
believe it is reasonable to conclude that they would have been able to identify any concerns
in the first few years. That would have been sufficient to enable them to bring a claim within
the time limits and any other issues couldve been discoverable earlier. I do not consider S32
extends the time limit in this complaint.
GEs decision to lend
Mr and Mrs R say GE didnt carry out a credit check although it did request details of their
employment and income. they were was not asked for any information about their income
and expenditure.
First, at the time Mr and Mrs R took out the loan, a lender had to undertake a borrower
focused assessment and check of affordability to make sure a prospective borrower was
able to repay any credit in a sustainable way. Secondly, if such checks were not carried out,
it is necessary to determine what the right sort of checks would have shown. Finally, if the
checks showed that the repayment of the borrowing was not sustainable, I need to consider
whether the borrower lost out as a result of the decision to lend.
S argues that the right sort of checks did not take place. This might be right that GE did not
do the right sort of checks, but I make no finding on that point. That is because S has not
provided anything to show that the lending was not affordable for them. I have seen nothing
to suggest there were any affordability issues, such as missed payments or other financial
difficulties at the time of the loan. So, I am not persuaded that the complaint should be
upheld on that basis.
Conclusion
For the reasons set out above, I currently think GE acted fairly in turning down Mr and Mrs
Rs claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA as they were brought too late. I do not think the loan
agreement was voidable, nor do I think there is any evidence to suggest the lending was
irresponsible or unaffordable.The CMC didnt agree and provided lengthy response covering much of the ground it had 
previously set out. 
It argued that the contract with C wasnt complaint with the 1992 Timeshare Act because it 
didnt give an accurate description and its location and didnt specify the exact period which 
the right conferred by the agreement may be exercised. It also said that the bank made the 
payment to C earlier than the 1992 law permitted.
The CMC took issue with my understanding of s 14 LA. This was based on its claim that 
both C and GE had breached the law, buy contravening the 1992 legislation. It argued that 
meant GE was negligent and so the time limit was extended by s 14A. It said Mr and Mrs R 
had three years from the date they became aware of these breaches to make a claim.
Finally it said that GE had not taken proper account of the matter of affordability. Mr and Mrs 
R were relatively elderly at the time the loan was taken out and GE had not followed industry 
guidance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not persuaded by the CMCs arguments and I so do not consider I can uphold this 
complaint. I will set out why.
Firstly, I have little factual material or detail regarding the agreements entered into by Mr and 
Mrs R. The CMC has provided much in the way of legal argument, but not much factual 
detail. I have seen a single page of the 2008 agreement. That makes it difficult to sustain 
any legal argument as to whether there was breach of that contract or the preceding one. 
However, I am aware of the types of contract issued by C and based on that I cannot 
conclude that there have been breaches. As such in order to assist the CMC I have 
considered what is the most likely appropriate approach to such contracts. 
Having considered the 1992 Timeshares Act, the 1994 Directive and the relevant 
regulations, I do not think the law makes the timeshare agreement voidable as suggested 
either. The 1992 Act makes provision for timeshare accommodation being from a pool of 
accommodation, so I think it was drafted with those types of arrangements in mind. Nothing 
in the 1992 Act makes me think selling those types of products was prohibited. So, I dont 
think all timeshare agreements had to refer to a specified apartment or set week to comply 
with the 1992 Act in the way the CMC thinks. 
Neither does the 1992 Act say that timeshare agreements are voidable if the required 
information is not included in the contract, or if money was taken before the end of the 
withdrawal period, in any event. Based on the evidence I have seen, I do not think either the 
timeshare agreement or the related loan agreement is voidable for the reasons Ive 
explained. This means I also dont think that Mr and Mrs Rs loan agreement is voidable on 
this basis, and I dont uphold this part of their complaint.
Nor can I say that s 14A offers much support to the argument put forward by the CMC given 
it has not been established there has been a breach of contract.
Section 14A provides a Special time limit for negligence actions where facts relevant to 
cause of action are not known at date of accrual (as per the title of that section). It provides 
for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be made. Looking at what 
happened, when Mr and Mrs R purchased the timeshare and took out the finance, I think there was an obligation to give Mr and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the loan. But Im not 
persuaded a duty of care arose or advice was provided that could give rise to a claim to 
which section 14A of the LA could apply. 
Mr and Mrs Rs representative argues that C breached the law while acting as an agent for 
GE, so GE was responsible for Cs actions. They said GE was negligent because they had a 
duty of care to ensure all laws were being complied with when Business C arranged the 
timeshare contract, as a linked agreement.
I accept that C conducted the pre-sale negotiations in the capacity of GEs agent as well as 
in their own capacity, under section 56 of the CCA. But I dont think this creates a duty of 
care in the way the CMC says. I also dont think this means GE acted negligently. So, I dont 
think that section 14A applies in this case. And I dont think there are any other reasons or 
provisions in the LA that mean time should be extended in these circumstances.
On the matter of affordability I must make it clear that I have no remit to consider the 2007 
loan. Our power to address such loans only came into effect from 6 April 2007.
GE has said it did carry out proper checks on both loans and submitted documentary 
evidence to that effect.  However, even if I were to conclude that GE or its agents didnt carry 
out the proper checks for creditworthiness and affordability when arranging the loan, I would 
still need to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs R and/or that they 
lost out as a result, in order to uphold this part of their complaint. The CMC hasnt provided 
any supporting evidence to show that this was the case. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest they struggled to repay the amount borrowed, for example, or that they otherwise 
had financial problems during the relevant time. So, I dont think theres sufficient evidence 
for me to uphold this part of the complaint either.
In conclusion I do not consider I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman