DRN-2828820
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the service she was given when she called U K Insurance Limited 
(UKI), trading as Green Flag, under her roadside assistance policy.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 5 May 2021 setting out whatd 
happened, and what I thought about that.
On 5 September 2020 Mrs L discovered oil was leaking from her motorhome. She called 
someone out on 7 September, who couldnt fix it, and they suggested calling UKI and having 
her towed home. Mrs L called UKI, who said theyd get her towed to a local garage to see if 
the issue could be fixed. Mrs L was initially happy with this, as she wanted to continue her 
holiday. The next day, her motorhome was towed to the garage as planned. She contacted 
them a few hours later, to be told they could fix it, but needed to get a part which wouldnt 
arrive until the following day. 
Mrs L understood from her earlier conversations with UKI if the motorhome couldnt be fixed, 
shed be put up in a hotel for the night. So, she called UKI to make arrangements  and 
explained she had animals with her. She says she was told not to worry and that UKI make 
these kinds of arrangements all the time. Several hours passed and she called UKI back 
who told her they couldnt find a local hotel but had found one around 50 miles away. They 
told her she could get a hire car and go to the hotel. Mrs L understood the hire car was being 
arranged by UKI, but they didnt get in touch with the car rental company until after closing 
time so the hire car wasnt arranged.
At this time, the garage where her motorhome was stored wanted to close  as it was past 
their closing time as well. She called UKI and told them shed have to park the motorhome 
up in a car park and sleep there for the night. She says she was told that wasnt necessary, 
and UKI would organise a taxi for her. The garage closed, locking her motorhome inside, 
and after almost an hour she called UKI back as no taxi had arrived. 
Another hour passed and she was contacted to be told a hotel had been organised. She 
asked if they accommodated animals, and, talking to a different UKI agent, was told he didnt 
know about this but was sure itd be fine. Having spoken to the hotel directly they confirmed 
they couldnt accommodate animals. Mrs L said at this point she was extremely worried. 
Another hour later she got a call to be told UKI had found her a hotel which did 
accommodate animals  but at this time it was no longer needed. Shed managed to speak 
to the garage owner, and her motorhome had been released so she could sleep in it for the 
night. Mrs L said during this she nearly had a panic attack, didnt feel safe, and barely slept 
that night.
The next day Mrs Ls motorhome couldnt be safely fixed, so to avoid further problems she 
hired her own car to take her home. She contacted UKI and asked them to tow her 
motorhome back and was told theyd organise a hire car for her. Mrs L said she didnt trust 
UKI at this point, so wasnt prepared to cancel her booking until shed seen UKIs had gone 
through. When she came to hire the car, UKIs booking hadnt gone through, so she used 
her own one. Mrs L said from 12.30pm to 8pm she was left not knowing what was going on 
and hopes no one ever has to go through something like this again. Mrs L complained and 
asked UKI for the cost of the hire car, fuel and compensation for all the issues.
UKI replied to the complaint and said the cost of fuel wasnt covered under the terms of the 
policy. But they accepted theyd provided unacceptable service to Mrs L otherwise. Saying 
that she had told them she had animals with her, but this wasnt noted on their systems, and 
they found communication issues when trying to arrange a hire car. They paid Mrs L 
£371.68  which was the cost of expenses including the hire car at £171.68, plus £200 
compensation.
Mrs L didnt accept this. She felt the compensation didnt reflect the enormity of the situation, 
so asked us to look into things. 
As part of this UKI sent us their information. They explained theyd covered the expenses 
that would have been covered under the policy. And they felt £200 was fair because 
although theyd let Mrs L down, part of the delay was caused by the garage ordering the 
wrong part which was outside their control.
One of our investigators considered everything and felt overall £200 compensation was fair. 
She also agreed UKI didnt need to pay for the fuel costs Mrs L had asked for, as this wasnt 
covered under the policy terms.
Mrs L didnt agree though. She said she feels quite strongly she wasnt given the service 
shed paid for. And if it was one miscommunication then shed accept that as an 
understandable error. But by their own admission it wasnt, and theyd not organised 
anywhere for her to sleep by 8pm. This continued to the next day, with her having to 
organise her own hire car. She said she wouldnt put this down to errors, but rather an 
incompetent company. She asked for her complaint to be reassessed, so its been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI have paid out for some costs  specifically a campsite and the cost of the hire car. 
Theyve not paid out for food, or petrol. These seem reasonable to me as theyre not 
covered under the terms of the policy, and Mrs Ls concerns are about the compensation, so 
Ill focus the rest of my decision on that.
Its not in dispute that UKI have let Mrs L down  theyve said their service was 
unacceptable. Id agree. It seems that when Mrs L was relying on UKI to do something, they 
failed at every opportunity.UKI have said some of the delays are because the garage ordered the wrong part, but I 
dont think that lessens their failings when handling things for Mrs L. They caused lots of 
delays themselves, by either not organising a hire car, a taxi, not properly arranging a hotel 
so Mrs L could go there with her animals, and effectively removing any confidence she may 
have had theyd do things correctly. The consequences of that are that she had to spend a 
night in the motorhome without facilities such as water and power. Shes said she was 
anxious, nearly had a panic attack, and barely slept that night. 
The following day UKI said theyd organise her a hire car  and failed again. Because of 
these repeated failings, I dont think £200 is representative of the upset caused by the 
issues. Awarding compensation isnt an exact science, but I think £400 is a fairer reflection 
of all the issues Mrs L experienced. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs L replied and said she had nothing further to add.
UKI didnt reply by the deadline set.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided any additional information for me to consider, Ive reached 
the same outcome for the same reasons explained above.  
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint, and order U K Insurance Limited, trading as Green Flag, to 
pay Mrs L £400 compensation in settlement of her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman