DRN-2757447
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide them with 
a cash refund, after cancelling their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 24 January 2020, Mr and Mrs J purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which 
provided them with cancellation cover from this date. The policy also provided additional 
cover for their trip, including post departure cover, with Mr and Mrs J going on holiday from 
04 September 2020 to 22 September 2020. Mr and Mrs J paid £553.13 for their policy, which 
included a discount of £56.16. The policy also included cover for six medical conditions they 
declared.
Great Lakes has explained that since 25 June 2020 it had been discussing the potential 
cancellation of Mr and Mrs Js insurance policy with them, and the options available if Mr and 
Mrs J did need to cancel the policy. This was because Mr and Mrs J had contacted Great 
Lakes, in anticipation of their holiday being cancelled.
At this point, Great Lakes said it could either allow Mr and Mrs J to move their travel 
insurance dates, so long as this was within 18 months of the original date they purchased 
their insurance policy. Or, they could be provided with a pro-rata refund in the form of a 
credit voucher for the unused part of their cover (calculated from 25 June 2020 to 22 
September 2020). This could then be able to use to purchase a new policy, so long as Mr 
and Mrs J did so within 36 months. 
Mr and Mrs J declined these offers. And, they expressed their dissatisfaction that only a 
credit voucher was available to them. They felt they should be provided with a cash refund 
for the part of the policy that had gone unused instead.
Great Lakes considered Mr and Mrs Js concerns, but its position remained the same. It said 
it couldnt offer Mr and Mrs J a cash refund for any part of their policy. It said Mr and Mrs J 
had benefitted from cancellation cover since they purchased their policy in January 2020. 
And the terms and conditions of the policy didnt provide for a refund, after the 14 day 
cooling-off period had elapsed. 
Instead Great Lakes reiterated its offer, saying that;
So long as the original policy dates had not expired, and the cover was for the same 
duration as destination, Mr and Mrs J could move their single trip cover to within 18 
months of the original policy purchase date, free of charge. If the duration or 
destination were to change an additional premium would be charged.
To provide Mr and Mrs J with a pro-rata voucher refund, valid for 36 months, that can 
be used against a new policy.
Mr and Mrs J remained unhappy with Great Lakes position. So, they referred their complaint 
to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this 
meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 24 January 2020, and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the date the holiday 
Mr and Mrs J were due to embark on was cancelled. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs J with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated based 
on the remaining premium from 25 June 2020, to the end date of the policy on 
22 September 2020. 
And they clarified that this voucher could be used as per the above, as well as the option for 
this voucher to be transferred to a friend or relative as a gift, if Mr and Mrs J would rather do 
this. Our investigator thought this was fair.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree. They said that;
The coronavirus pandemic was an exceptional circumstance  and they wouldnt 
have asked Great Lakes for any refund of the premium paid, if it hadnt been for the 
pandemic. Linked to this, the destination they were going to wasnt allowing people to 
travel to the country. 
They didnt know what their plans would be for future travel, if any, and the offer of a 
pro-rata refund via voucher would mean they were tied to insure with Great Lakes at 
that point.
They found it strange that the majority of the premium they paid for the policy had 
already apparently been used up, by the time their holiday was. Mr and Mrs J noted 
they thought the risk attached to actually travelling on holiday, and the potential for 
associated medical bills at that point, would have attached a greater premium, than 
the pre-trip cancellation part of the cover.
Because Mr and Mrs J remained dissatisfied, their complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or made, or intend to make a claim.If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however in exceptional circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the 
policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical conditions.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund to Mr and Mrs J.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide a refund after the 
cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. Whilst I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs J 
wanted to cancel their insurance policy, I dont think their reasons for cancelling the policy 
reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional circumstances. I say this 
because I dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of Great Lakes 
policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to bereavement or 
changes in the policyholders health. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer is fair and reasonable. Mr and Mrs J 
accept that their policy did provide them with cancellation cover from the date it was 
purchased. And so, they had the benefit of this cover, until 25 June 2020, when they first 
contacted Great Lakes about cancelling the policy because their trip was at risk of not going 
ahead. Mr and Mrs J did receive this cover, and therefore I agree its fair that Great Lakes 
charge for its time insuring this risk.
 
Mr and Mrs J didnt need to make a claim for the cancellation of their holiday. But instead 
they called Great Lakes about the cancellation of the policy given they felt the policy was 
unlikely to be needed further. Because there would be nothing left to insure from the date the 
holiday was cancelled, and this was an unprecedented situation, I do think Great Lakes offer 
to provide a pro-rata refund, from 25 June 2020 to 22 September 2020 is fair. It means Great 
Lakes isnt charging a premium when it knows there was unlikely to be anything left to cover.  
I think a voucher is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this case. I 
do appreciate Mr and Mrs Js concerns in relation to current uncertainty around travel, and 
that the provision of a voucher means they would have to insure with Great Lakes for their 
next holiday. But I dont think the terms of the voucher are unreasonably restrictive. It does 
allow Mr and Mrs J cover to go on the same holiday at a later date than originally planned, at 
no extra cost. And I have to be mindful that Mr and Mrs J were happy to, and did, insure with 
Great Lakes when they originally purchased the policy. 
Im also satisfied the value attached to the voucher is fair. Mr and Mrs J have raised 
concerns about how the premium is split over the length of the cover. As above, they feel 
risks to be insured whilst actually on holiday were greater than those before the trip. They 
felt this meant the premium would logically be more expensive towards the latter part of the 
policy, when they were due to be travelling. I can see what Mr and Mrs J are saying here. 
But Im satisfied Great Lakes has provided sufficient evidence to show it splits the premium it 
charges equally over the period of cover, rather than dividing this into pre-trip cancellation, 
and post-departure cover. And Im satisfied there isnt any material unevenness in 
calculating the premium in this way. It is something that applies to all policyholders in similar circumstances to Mr and Mrs J. So, I dont think Great Lakes has treated Mr and Mrs J 
differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it has set and calculated the voucher 
amount in this case. 
Great Lakes calculated the voucher amount from the first time that Mr and Mrs J got in touch 
to say that they may need to cancel the policy on 25 June 2020, to the date it was due to 
end on 22 September 2020. I think that is fair in the circumstances as its unclear when the 
holiday was actually cancelled and was the date of the first call Mr and Mrs J made to Great 
Lakes about possible cancellation. This meant there would be 90 days of the policy unused, 
where Great Lakes werent on risk - which equates to £169.50 of the premium paid. As this 
offer reflects the fact Great Lakes was not on risk for the 90 days after the holiday was 
cancelled, Im satisfied Great Lakes offer is fair. And so, I wont be requiring it to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes has offered 
Mr and Mrs J is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to do anything 
more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman