DRN-3045159
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Mr M was told that he could port the mortgage product to a new 
property. But Santander UK Plc refused to let him do so. So, they had to pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC) and Mr M had to pay a brokers fee and pay a higher interest rate 
for his new mortgage. The stress of this has affected Mr Ms mental health and his ability to 
work.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have separated. They had a mortgage with Santander since 2011 and a 
mortgage product. If the product was redeemed before 2 March 2021 an ERC became 
payable, but the ERC could be avoided if they were able to port the mortgage product to 
another property which required obtaining a mortgage on another property with Santander. 
Mr M after the separation wanted to downsize and port the mortgage product. Mr M says 
that in advance of selling the house he spoke to Santander and was told that the mortgage 
product could be ported and if there was a negative decision that it could be appealed. So, 
Mr M sold the house and applied for a mortgage on a new one. Mr M says that the 
application was refused without appeal. Mr M believes it was refused because of affordability 
but says that he was the sole wage earner and had managed to pay the existing mortgage 
so could afford a lower mortgage. Mr M acknowledged that there were some unsecured 
debts, but he was repaying these. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that 
Santander had done nothing wrong. Mr M disagreed saying in summary that the house 
wouldnt have been sold until the ERC no longer applied and because he was told he could 
get the mortgage the house was sold triggering the ERC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also listened to several calls between Mr M and Santander staff relevant to the 
complaint. This complaint arises because of Mr Ms attempt to sell the former matrimonial 
home and buy a cheaper property with a mortgage without incurring an ERC. But he was 
unable to do so. Ive listened to various calls involving Mr M and various members of 
Santanders staff. Unfortunately, when Mr M applied for a new mortgage, he came up 
against the tougher lending criteria for mortgages that applied from 2014. Mr and Mrs M had 
a mortgage from before that date but as Mrs M was no longer to be on the mortgage there 
was whats called a material change in the mortgage which meant that the new regulations 
applied.
The problem with this application was that Mr M had a poor credit history - he was in a debt 
management plan repaying unsecured debts paying £365 per month. Santanders credit 
check led to the application being refused because it revealed unsatisfactory adverse credit 
bureau data. That would indicate to a lender looking at the application that there was poor 
financial management at least and that Mr and Mrs Ms income hadnt been sufficient for 
their living expenses.  A poor credit history is a fair reason to refuse a new mortgage which 
Santander did and indeed I noted in one of the calls that Mr M anticipated that he might fail 
the credit check. I noted that the refusal on this ground was appealable but only if there was 
an error with the credit information and there was no indication that such was the case.
The application was also refused because of Santanders internal credit scoring system 
which Santander said was non-appealable. I see that there were attempts by Santanders 
staff to see if a change to the LTV would alter the result on internal credit scoring but to no 
avail. I can understand that Mr M feels he was unfairly treated by his inability to appeal. But 
even if there was an appeal on that ground, its hard to see that the result would have been 
anything different given the poor credit history. Whilst I recognise Mr Ms disappointment, I 
cant say that Santanders decision to refuse the application was unreasonable. 
I note that Mr M makes the point that he wouldnt have sold the house without being told by 
Santander that he could get the mortgage. But clearly there was a process to be followed 
before that could be determined and Mr M was never told that he would get a mortgage by 
Santander but only  that he could apply for one when the house was sold and a new one 
bought. There was no indication that the decision about a new mortgage would ultimately be 
favourable to Mr M - he clearly knew himself that there would be a problem with his credit 
history - and the timing of the sale which caused the ERC was a matter for Mr and Mrs M. 
I can see that Mr M was taking steps to deal with the separation and get a new home for 
himself and his son and to deal with the family debts. I understand the disappointment of 
having to pay the ERC. But my role is to decide whether Santander did something wrong. Mr 
M could only port if his application for a new mortgage met Santanders lending criteria and it 
simply did not and so I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman