DRN-4489535
The complaint
A limited company, that I will refer to as C, complains about the sale of its commercial 
insurance policy by Goldcrest Ins Ltd.
What happened
The following is only intended as a brief summary of events. Additionally, for the sake of 
simplicity, I have just referred to C and Goldcrest even though other individuals have been 
involved in correspondence and so on.
C operates as a building and plumbing company, and had taken out insurance via Goldcrest 
for a number of years. The policy renewed annually at the start of April each year. 
In March 2020, Cs business was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and it made a claim 
on the policy that covered April 2019 to April 2020. A number of months later, C attempted to 
make a further claim for business interruption on the policy that started in April 2020. 
However, this was ultimately declined on the basis that when the policy had renewed in 
April 2020 an exclusion had been added relating to claims arising from infectious disease or 
human contagious disease. 
C complained to Goldcrest that it had not made it aware of this exclusion when the policy 
was renewed. It said that had it been made aware of this exclusion, it might have considered 
other cover. So, it felt Goldcrest should compensate it for not being able to claim for its 
losses under this policy. 
When Goldcrest did not agree with Cs complaint, it brought it to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. However, our Investigator did not recommend the complaint be upheld either. He 
did think that Goldcrest had failed to highlight what was a significant term. But he didnt think 
C would have been able to take out a policy that did provide cover at this time, even if it had 
been aware of this exclusion on this policy. So, he didnt think C would have been able to 
successfully claim for its losses in any event and hence there was no consequential loss 
from Goldcrests error.
C responded, saying that it had made commercial decisions based on the belief that it was 
covered for its losses. As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint it has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
I agree with the Investigator that it is most likely that Goldcrest did not highlight this change 
to the policy at the time of renewal. And that, given the circumstances at the time, this was a 
significant term that should have been highlighted. 
I appreciate Goldcrests comments about telephone calls and discussions that it apparently 
had with C around this time, and that insurers were adding such exclusions to almost all 
relevant policies at this time. But this does not persuade me that Goldcrest did in fact 
highlight this exclusion. And just because those in the insurance industry were not surprised 
by the addition of such exclusions, does not mean that a customer ought to have known 
about them. Without any clear record of the conversations it had with C, Goldcrest is unable 
to demonstrate that it is more likely than not that it informed C of this exclusion. 
So, I consider that there was most likely a failing by Goldcrest during the sales process. 
The issue that I need to determine next is what the impact of this was. Where something has 
gone wrong, the Financial Ombudsmans role is effectively to put the parties back in the 
position they wouldve been in had it not been for this error. 
Had Goldcrest done what it should have, C would likely have asked whether there was 
another available policy that would provide cover. However, Goldcrest has confirmed that 
none of the policies it was able to source would have done so. And C has also said that its 
own research has confirmed this. So, even if Goldcrest had done what it should have, C 
would not have been able to successfully claim for its losses. This means the inability to 
claim, and hence the losses caused by the later business interruption, were not a 
consequence of any failing by Goldcrest. And so, I cant fairly and reasonably direct 
Goldcrest to compensate C for this.
I consider it is likely that, even with this exclusion, C would still have taken out insurance - 
the policy provided cover for a number of events that C would most likely have still wanted. 
And Goldcrests recommendation of this particular policy was largely based on it being the 
cheapest available that met Cs needs as far as was possible. So, I think the cost of the 
policy was something C would always have incurred.
C has said that it made commercial decisions based on the belief it would have been able to 
successfully claim. As the Investigator has pointed out though, it was not until early 2021 
that C could have been reasonably assured that it could claim. I have noted its comments 
that it was confident in the outcome of the Supreme Court judgment in the FCA test case. 
But given the court of the first instance had come to a different outcome, I am not persuaded 
C would have been confident this would be changed. 
Additionally, regardless of either Cs belief or actual ability to successfully claim, a 
policyholder is required to act on the basis that it is not insured and to mitigate any losses 
that might be sustained. So, even if it had cover that meant it could successfully claim, C 
ought to have taken the same decisions it would have if it didnt have this cover. 
I have thought about the fact that C was left in a position where it believed it was covered 
and then found out this was not the case. However, C is a limited company and as such is 
unable to suffer distress. And its directors, as individuals, are not the customer of Goldcrest 
or the complainant in this case, so I am unable to award compensation for any distress they 
might have suffered. 
I have thought about the inconvenience that would have been caused by Cs belief that it 
could claim. It may be that it carried out work pursuing this claim that it otherwise would not 
have. However, whilst this may have caused some inconvenience, I am mindful that C was 
at the same time pursuing its claim about the losses it eventually recovered in relation to the 
2019-2020 policy. So, I dont think any addition inconvenience incurred would merit any 
compensation. 
I am also mindful that had it actually read the policy schedule  which would be prudent when both taking out the policy and when making a claim  it would have noted the relevant 
exclusion and so would not have suffered any inconvenience. This does not absolve 
Goldcrest of its responsibilities by any means  it had a requirement to highlight the 
exclusion and it did not do so. But it is a factor I need to bear in mind when thinking about 
the consequences of this failure.
Ultimately, whilst I consider Goldcrest failed to adequately highlight a significant policy term 
at the point of renewal, I am not persuaded that C suffered any consequential loss as a 
result of this that leads me to make an award. I appreciate this is not the outcome C or its 
directors were hoping for. But I cant fairly and reasonably ask Goldcrest to do anything more 
in response to the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman