DRN-2665460
The complaint
Mrs I is complaining that she wasnt made aware that she was taking out a fixed sum loan 
agreement (loan) with Omni Finance Limited (Omni) to fund an online education course 
for her daughter with a supplier that I will call E. Shes also unhappy she wasnt allowed to 
cancel it.
What happened
Mrs I said she received an information pamphlet from her daughters school advertising E. 
She said she was later contacted by one of Es representatives and she arranged an 
appointment as she looking to arrange some additional tutoring for her daughter. So, in 
May 2017 one of Es representatives visited Mrs I at her home, following which she entered 
her daughter onto a Maths and English course, which cost £2,680. She entered into a four-
year finance agreement with Omni to pay for it.
In January 2019 Mrs I contacted E to say her daughter didnt want to do the course any 
longer and asked to cancel it. She asked to cancel it again in February 2019 as she says her 
daughter wasnt using it anymore. But E didnt allow her to do so as it said she couldnt 
cancel it after 14 days.
Mrs I complained to E as she said she didnt know she was taking out a loan to pay for the 
course. She says she was told it was a monthly subscription programme and thought she 
could cancel it at any time. She thinks its unfair she was having to pay for something her 
daughter wasnt using anymore.
E responded to say the salesman would have made it clear what Mrs I had bought and 
under what terms. It said Mrs I signed and initialled the paperwork to confirm what shed 
bought.
Mrs I later contacted Omni to ask to cancel the finance and claim for breach of contract and 
misrepresentation by E. Omni didnt uphold the complaint as it said Mrs I wasnt able to 
cancel the contract after 14 days.  
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. And I said the following:
Mrs I paid for the course through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Omni is 
jointly liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  E. Im satisfied 
those circumstances apply here.
Further to this, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making E the 
agent of Omni during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs I entering into the loan 
agreement, starting from when she was first approached by E. But essentially, this means 
Omni is responsible for the acts or omissions of E in relation to the sale of the loan to Mrs I. 
In other words, Omni has to stand behind the things E said, did, didnt say, or didnt do 
during the sales process.
Mrs I is unhappy she wasnt allowed to cancel the course when her daughter didnt want to 
use the course any longer. She says she thought she was paying a monthly subscription 
towards it and was told by the salesman she could cancel at any time. She says she was 
misled into entering into the course and the finance agreement.
Under the terms of the finance, Mrs I had the right to withdraw from it within 14 days, but 
after that it was a non-cancellable contract. Mrs I maintains she was told she could cancel it 
at any time and thought she was taking out a monthly subscription. She says she wouldnt 
have entered into the course had she known shed have to continue to pay for it for four 
years. She also says she didnt know she was entering into a finance agreement. So I think 
the key issues I have to think about is whether the course and finance agreement were 
misrepresented to her. Ive also thought about her complaint that she wasnt happy with the 
quality of the course. 
Quality of the course
Legislation  in this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a term into the 
contract with E that it must provide the tutoring service with reasonable care and skill. Mrs I 
says she was given a specific time for her daughter to call the tutors, but she often hard to 
get through and they didnt get any call backs. She was also unhappy with the quality of the 
service provided by the tutors.
Ive thought about what Mrs I has said about this. But I am conscious her daughter did use 
the course for around 18 months. And, like the investigator, I havent seen anything to show 
Mrs I raised any concerns about the quality of the course either during the time she used it 
and also when she first raised her concerns. Ive taken what Mrs I has said, but I dont think I 
have enough to say the service wasnt provided with reasonable care and skill. I recognise 
Mrs Is daughter wasnt willing to use the tutoring service any longer, but I dont think I can 
fairly conclude that she didnt receive the service she was entitled to expect.
Sale of the course and finance agreement
Omni highlights the signed loan agreement and enrolment form sets out she was entering 
into a finance agreement. So it thinks she should have known she was taking out a loan. I 
agree that we must take the paperwork into consideration  particularly in assessing whether 
theres a breach of contract or not. But I also need to take into account the salesmans 
responsibilities to provide clear information to enable Mrs I to make an informed choice 
before she agreed to enter into the course. And I dont think the finance agreement is 
necessarily always an accurate description of the conversations that were had before the 
contract started.
In arranging the loan between Mrs I and Omni, E was acting as a credit broker. The 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out what it expects a responsible credit broker to 
do and it does so in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). As the lender, these 
regulations and guidance dont apply to Omni directly. But I think E was acting on Omnis 
behalf in arranging the finance agreement. So its something I need to think about in this 
decision. 
CONC 4.2.5 R requires brokers to provide what is described as adequate explanations, 
which include explanations of the following things:
a)   the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided under the 
agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can be 
determined, in total under the agreement;c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would have a 
significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer is unlikely to 
foresee; 
d) the principal consequences for the customer arising from a failure to make payments 
under the agreement at the times required by the agreement including, where applicable 
and depending upon the type and amount of credit and the circumstances of the 
customer:
(i) the total cost of the debt growing;
(ii) incurring any default charges or interest for late or missed payment or underpayment;
(iii) impaired credit rating and its effect on future access to or cost of credit;
(iv) legal proceedings, including reference to charging orders (or, in Scotland, inhibitions), 
and to the associated costs of such proceedings;
(v) repossession of the customer's home or other property; and
(vi) where an article is taken in pawn, that the article might be sold, if not redeemed; and
e) the effect of the exercise of any right to withdraw from the agreement and how and 
when this right may be exercised.
CONC 4.8.2 R refers back to CONC 4.2.5 R and states:
A firm must not unfairly encourage, incentivise or induce a customer to enter into a 
regulated credit agreement quickly without allowing the customer time to consider the 
precontract information under section 55 of the CCA and the explanations provided under 
CONC 4.2.5 R. 
CONC 2.5.3 R sets out more general expectations from the FCA as to how a credit broker 
should conduct itself, explaining that a broker must: 
2)   take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that a product it wishes to recommend to a 
customer is not unsuitable for the customer's needs and circumstances;
3) advise a customer to read, and allow the customer sufficient opportunity to consider, the 
terms and conditions of a credit agreement or consumer hire agreement before entering 
into it;
The FCA also sets out more general principles which it expects financial firms (including E 
and Omni) to follow, and there are two which are of particular relevance here: 
6 Customers' interests
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
7 Communications with clients
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Having set out the relevant regulatory background, Ive also thought about how E sold the 
product Mrs I purchased. I think its likely that the nature of this product and the way it was 
sold is likely to have influenced Mrs Is assumptions about how she was going to be paying 
for it.
E marketed the programme as an affordable, online alternative to private English and Maths 
tuition for a child. I think parents will typically pay for private tuition by the hour, although 
tutors may sometimes offer discounts for bulk-bookings. There are a number of online-based services available. But in my experience, and based on my further research, these are often 
offered on a subscription basis ranging from one month up to a year. E itself appeared, 
based on statements on its website and on other documents its provided us, to have offered 
a monthly subscription or pay as you go service as an alternative to the Lifetime Licence 
model that it sold to Mrs I.
From what Ive seen, the Lifetime Licence model appears to operate differently as the 
applicant has to make a single large upfront payment and this gives the child access to Es 
programme for the duration of their schooling. Due to the substantial size of payment 
required, the applicant often had to take out a loan to cover it, and these loans are not 
cancellable. So this ultimately means that, once a person has signed up for the programme 
and the loan, they cant cancel and are committed to repaying the loan after 14 days have 
passed. This seems to me to be an unusual model to adopt for a childs tuition due to its lack 
of flexibility. I dont think its uncommon for children to change tutors for a variety of reasons. 
So I think most parents are likely to value flexibility when considering either face to face or 
online tuition.
Bearing all of the above in mind I think, in general, when a parent asks to learn more about 
the programme, they would assume that it was being offered on a subscription basis. I think 
its unlikely they would think they were going to be signing up for a long-term commitment 
paid for, up front, by a loan. Because E was offering a very different proposition with long-
term financial implications, I think it needed to make this very clear.
In thinking about this case, Ive taken Mrs Is testimony into account and, in particular, 
whether Im persuaded by what shes told us given what subsequently happened and what 
we know about the product she ultimately bought. 
Weve spoken to Mrs I to understand why she enquired about the course in the first place. I 
understand she wasnt actively looking for a tutoring service but was interested in providing 
some assistance to her son with his studies.
I dont think Mrs I was looking for a long-term arrangement, but just a service to provide 
some additional assistance. I think its likely she would have wanted to have the option to 
cancel the contract. And I dont think its likely she would have entered into a four-year 
contract, unless she was told or given some form of indication that she could cancel it.
Ive considered Omnis comments that Mrs I signed the agreement. But from what I know of 
the sales process, the salesman would have asked Mrs I to tick a box on a tablet to 
electronically sign the documents. I can see Mrs I electronically signed the following: 
the finance agreement
the enrolment application
Ive thought about whether Mrs I was given an opportunity to review the finance agreement 
before she ticked the box to enter into the agreement. But I havent seen anything to support 
this. I acknowledge it was Mrs Is responsibility to understand what she was entering into. 
But, at the same time, CONC particularly sets out that the salesman had a duty to ensure 
she had enough information about the credit agreement  as I set out above  and about the 
finance in respect to Es responsibility as a credit broker before she agreed to enter into the 
course and finance agreement.
Its also worth noting that the FCA has written to credit brokers outlining some key risks it 
believes they should consider and act upon. The FCA said it had found firms brokering credit 
agreements with third party finance providers had poor oversight of staff, leaving sales 
practices unchecked and potentially increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor consumer outcomes. In particular it referenced brokers which sell products in the home as 
potentially presenting a higher risk of consumer harm, especially if sales took place without 
appropriate oversight and on a commission-basis.
While no specific firms were mentioned in the FCAs letter, Im mindful of the fact that, in 
Mrs Is case, E was brokering a credit agreement with a third-party finance provider in order 
to sell her a product, in her home, and the FCA has identified this scenario as potentially 
presenting a higher risk of consumer harm including mis-selling.
Mrs I has said throughout she thought she was taking out a monthly subscription to a 
tutoring service. And shes consistently said in all correspondence that she didnt know she 
was taking out a loan. Given what I know about what Mrs I wanted to use the course for, Im 
not persuaded she would have entered into the course and agreement if shed known it was 
a four-year commitment. I think Mrs I has been consistent in what shes told us about what 
happened.
Ive seen some of the training material provided by E to its salespeople, which I understand 
was current at the point Mrs I entered into the finance agreement. When covering how to 
explain the financial aspects of the sale, E doesnt refer to the word loan anywhere in these 
training materials. Instead, I think the focus seems to have been on setting an affordable 
monthly payment and, it seems to me, the wording is fashioned in such a way as to avoid 
making the arrangement sound like a loan.
So taking everything into consideration, I dont think the salesman did explain everything to 
Mrs I as clearly as he should have done. And I think Mrs I has lost out as a result of whats 
happened.
That said, Mrs I has had a benefit from the course because her daughter did use it for 
around 18 months and had completed a reasonable proportion of it. So I think its fair she 
pays for some of the amount payable. It seems to me Mrs Is daughter stopped using the 
course around January 2019. So I think the fairest way to resolve this complaint is for Omni 
to refund any payments Mrs I has made towards the finance agreement since January 2020. 
I also intend to say it should pay 8% simple interest on these payments from when she paid 
it until she gets it back. It can retain the payments Mrs I made up to January 2019 reflect the 
usage her daughter has had from the course.
As I dont think Mrs I would have entered into this finance agreement had she been given 
sufficient information at the outset, I dont think it fair that it continues to appear on her credit 
file. So I think Omni should remove any record of the agreement from Mrs Is credit file.
Omni didnt accept my provisional decision. It said it sent the credit agreement to the same 
email address Mrs I has used to communicate with this service. It said this made it clear 
shed taken out a loan. It highlighted she acknowledged that she hadnt read the documents. 
Omni said, had Mrs I read the credit agreement as it thinks she should have done, she could 
have queried it or asked to cancel it then. But it highlighted she didnt contact Omni until 
28 months after the agreements started.
Omni maintained Mrs I was given enough information and opportunity to understand the 
agreement she was entering into and the terms of the contract  including her cancellation 
rights. 
Mrs I accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Omni has said in response to my provisional decision, but I dont think its added 
anything new. So I dont see any reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I reached 
in my provisional decision. 
As I said, CONC 4.2.5 sets out it needed to be made clear to Mrs I she was entering into a 
finance agreement and the key terms of the contract before the contract started. I accept 
Mrs I should have read and considered the documents Omni sent her. But I still have to 
consider whether Mrs I would have entered into the contract had she been given enough 
information to make an informed choice. And, for the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision, I dont think she would have done.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited to do the following:
1. refund any payments Mrs I has made towards the finance agreement since 
January 2020;
2. pay 8% simple interest on these payments from when she paid them until she gets them 
back. If Omni thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from this interest, it should tell Mrs I how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate; and
3. remove any record of the agreement from Mrs Is credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman