DRN-2926171
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to help prevent them 
falling victim to an investment scam. 
For ease of reading and as hes done most of the correspondence on this complaint, Ill 
mostly only refer to Mr N.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. In March 2019 Mr N was sadly the victim of an 
investment scam. Having been tricked into believing it was a genuine opportunity, Mr N 
made two payments, each for £25,000, (on 5 and 6 March 2019 respectively) from his joint 
account with HSBC to the account details provided by the scammer. He believed he was 
investing with a firm Ill refer to as B. 
A few weeks later Mr N happened to be close to Bs offices and thought hed call in. It was at 
this point he found B werent at that address and his suspicions were raised. He contacted 
HSBC and shared his concerns. He also contacted the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Mr N concluded hed been the victim of a scam and asked HSBC to help him recover his 
money. HSBC contacted the beneficiary bank, but unfortunately by that time, none of his 
funds remained to be recovered. 
Mr N complained to HSBC. He thinks they should have done more to identify unusual activity 
on his account and that this could have prevented his loss. HSBC didnt agree and the 
complaint was then considered by our service. Ultimately one of our investigators didnt 
recommend that HSBC needed to do anything further. She didnt conclude that the activity 
was so unusual that it ought to have prompted HSBC to have intervened. Mr N disagrees 
and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
In June 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. But as Im providing 
some additional reasons, I wanted to give everyone a further opportunity to comment before 
finalising my decision. 
It is common ground that Mr N authorised the scam payments totalling £50,000. At the time 
he believed he was making a genuine investment with B. He was taken through an account 
opening process and provided with online access to monitor the investment.  
I accept that these were authorised payments even though Mr N was the victim of a scam. 
He provided valid instructions through his online banking. So, although he didnt intend to 
pay the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of 
his account, Mr N is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for HSBC to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
HSBCs first obligation is to follow the instructions that Mr N provides. But if those 
instructions are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect HSBC to 
intervene and to ask their customer more about the intended transaction before processing 
it. Id also expect HSBC to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help their 
customers make an informed decision as to whether to continue with the payment. There 
might also be cases where its appropriate for HSBC to refuse to follow the instruction if 
there are good grounds to believe it is being made as a result of a fraud or scam. 
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions Mr N gave to HSBC (either individually 
or collectively) were unusual in relation to the typical account activity. Mr Ns account was a 
premier account. This means there are criteria to qualify for such an account. These include 
the requirement to earn at least £75,000 per year or to have over £50,000 of savings or 
investments with HSBC. So, I think its fair to say that HSBC could reasonably expect larger 
amounts to move through these accounts compared to some others they offer. 
But I still need to consider Mr Ns account specifically and what was usual in that context. 
To do this Ive reviewed the account statements for the year prior to the scam payments 
being made. I think this gives a sufficient sample size to fairly assess the activity. The 
account typically maintained a healthy balance which ranged between around £8,000 and on 
occasions up to around £90,000. There were direct debits, cash withdrawals, transfers and 
bill payments. 
Of note in April 2018 around £83,000 was transferred out of the account. This happened 
over four payments and there were consecutive days when payments of £23,000 were 
transferred from the account. There were also less frequent transfers for lower amounts 
which includes a payment for over £9,000 in September 2018 and around £4,500 in 
December 2018. Further to this in February 2019 (the month before the scam payments) 
there were two separate transfers made, each for around £20,000. These two payments 
appear to have been internal transfers within HSBC, so Ive not placed as much weight on 
them as I have for outgoing bill payments. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I dont think payments of the type Mr N instructed to go 
to the scammer can fairly be said to be sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for this 
particular account. I dont think it was unusual for large payments to be made on this account
from time to time. So, Im not persuaded in the circumstances of this complaint, that HSBC 
failed by not contacting Mr N at the time, prior to processing the payments. 
But for completeness, even if HSBC had contacted Mr N, Im similarly not persuaded this 
would have made a difference. Mr N has described the process the scammer took him 
through prior to the investment. This closely followed that of a legitimate investment and 
included him being required to provide proof of identity. He was also asked to complete a 
questionnaire to assess his attitude to risk and was provided with professional looking 
documentation in relation to the investment. Mr N also said that he checked the FCA website 
to make sure there were no warnings about the company he intended to invest with. And 
whilst a warning was later published on the FCA website, at the relevant time there wasnt 
anything there to cause him concern. There was also an online platform on which Mr N was 
able to see and track the performance of his investment.If HSBC had flagged the payment instructions as unusual (which for clarity I dont think they 
should have), Id have expected them to have asked probing questions designed to uncover 
a potential scam. But given Mr N had already performed many of the checks I would have 
expected HSBC to have suggested to confirm an opportunity as genuine  Im not 
sufficiently persuaded that HSBCs appropriate discussion with Mr N would likely have 
resulted in him discovering the scam at that point or not wishing to still proceed.
Mr N has highlighted that prior to being a victim of the scam hed sought advice from HSBC 
about an investment with them. He says that the responses he gave to HSBC meant they 
were unable to offer him any investment products at that time. He thinks this ought to have 
put HSBC on notice that he wasnt a sophisticated investor and that they should have had 
some sort of alert on his account to protect him. I understand the point Mr N is making. But 
whilst HSBC have obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in their customers best interests, 
in the circumstances here they werent Mr Ns advisor or agent. And so I dont think I can 
fairly conclude that they ought to have monitored how Mr N chose to spend the money in his 
account (beyond the obligations they have to all their customers that Ive described above). 
Once HSBC were notified that there was a problem with the payments Mr N had instructed, 
they passed this on to the beneficiary bank the same day. But unfortunately for Mr N the 
evidence from the beneficiary bank shows that by that point, all the money had already been 
withdrawn. So even if HSBC could have passed that information on instantly upon 
notification, it wouldnt have made a difference to what could have been recovered. 
Im really sorry that Mr and Mrs N have lost such a significant amount of money to cruel 
scammers. But it would only be fair for me to direct HSBC to reimburse that loss if they are 
responsible for acts or omissions that caused it. And for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think they are so Im not intending to tell them to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
Now both parties have had an opportunity to respond, I can go ahead with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator chased Mr and Mrs N for a response but neither they nor HSBC responded 
with any further comments or evidence for my consideration. I therefore see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman