DRN-2012003
The complaint
Mr P complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
SA acted unfairly and unreasonably by refusing to pay his claim under a travel insurance 
policy in full. He wants the claim paid in full.
What happened
Mr P had a travel insurance policy with Mapfre. He went on a cruise and became ill, 
requiring medical treatment. Mr P made a claim and Mapfre got his medical records; it 
discovered that Mr P took a medication that could be used for high blood pressure. Mr P 
didnt declare it as he was prescribed the drug to regulate his heart rate  the question he 
was asked was Have you been advised to take medication for high blood pressure?.
Mapfre refused to pay Mr Ps claim in full. While Mr P had declared COPD, an enlarged 
prostate, irregular heartbeat, diabetes and high cholesterol, it said he shouldve declared 
high blood pressure because he was taking Ramipril, a medication used for that condition. It 
said if Mr P had declared the medication when he took out the policy, it wouldve charged 
him more for the policy. Mapfre said Mr P had only paid 87% of the correct premium and this 
was all it would pay towards his claim.
Mr P complained to us. Mapfre and Mr P provided evidence about the medical position, 
including evidence from Mr Ps GP which confirmed Mr P hadnt been prescribed Ramipril 
for high blood pressure and that he hadnt been told properly by those treating him that he 
suffered from heart failure as the focus was on his declared condition of irregular heartbeat. 
The investigators view was that the complaint should be upheld. She said that at most Mr P 
had been told that his heart as a pump is still slightly impaired in 2014 and it wasnt 
reasonable for an insurer to expect a member of a public would realise this meant they 
suffered from heart failure. There was no mention by the treating doctors that Mr P was 
being given medication to deal with heart failure and it could be used for other purposes, so 
the investigator thought that it was reasonable Mr P didnt know. The focus was on his 
irregular heartbeat, which had been declared. The investigator pointed out that Mr P had 
declared conditions of which he was aware, so she thought if hed known of the heart failure, 
he wouldve declared it. She said Mapfre should pay his claim in full.
Mapfre disagreed. It said the GP had said Mr P suffered from high blood pressure and took 
Ramipril for it and it didnt accept Mr P didnt know about his heart failure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think its 
application produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. Having considered 
the evidence available to me from both parties, I place considerable weight includes the 
letters from the GP who is best placed to comment on Mr Ps pre-existing medical history, 
his knowledge and why he was prescribed particular drugs. 
The GP has said that Mr P does not have high blood pressure, and was prescribed Ramipril 
for other reasons. In my experience, while theres an assumption that Ramipril is prescribed 
for hypertension (and the GP admits he fell into the same trap when initially responding to 
Mapfres queries, rather than checking the position), it is also prescribed to optimise other 
heart medications or for other reasons connected to the heart. This is what the hospital 
advised the GP in Mr Ps case several years ago. Within the detailed medical records, 
theres no diagnosis of Mr P suffering from hypertension, though his blood pressure does 
vary.
I think Mapfres initial finding that Mr P had high blood pressure was fair and reasonable in 
light of the evidence it was initially provided with by the GP. However, once more evidence 
was provided, I dont think its continued insistence that Mr P has high blood pressure and 
was prescribed Ramipril for this is fair and reasonable; it conflicts with the evidence of the 
treating doctors.
And the question Mr P was initially asked was Have you been advised to take medication 
for high blood pressure?. A reasonable consumer, knowing that they dont have high blood 
pressure, would answer no, as Mr P did. The question asked if he had been advised to 
take medication for high blood pressure, and he had not. It isnt reasonable to expect 
members of the public to become experts on the varied uses of Ramipril, both on and off 
licence, but in any event, that wasnt what Mapfre asked. 
I note that if Mr P had answered yes, the next question wouldve been How many 
medicines does your doctor advise you to take for high blood pressure?. The answer wouldve been none as the Ramipril wasnt prescribed for hypertension. This shows the point 
of the question was as Mr P perceived it  was he taking medication for hypertension that he 
had been advised he had? He wasnt. I dont think Mr P misrepresented the position in 
relation to this issue. 
The next issue is whether Mr P shouldve declared heart failure. Again, the evidence from 
his GP is very persuasive. The GP has said Mr P didnt know he had this condition. I can 
understand why Mapfre is surprised and feels theres evidence of poor medical practice, but 
Mr P isnt responsible for this. A passing comment several years ago that theres a slight 
impairment of the heart isnt in my view enough to tell a member of the public they have 
heart failure, a phrase likely to get their attention. The focus from the medical evidence was 
on Mr Ps declared heart condition, and the medication which he received wasnt obviously 
unrelated. 
I dont think Mr P acted carelessly or recklessly in failing to declare a medical condition of 
which he was unaware or declare a medication he wasnt receiving for hypertension. I note 
the number of conditions he did declare for himself and his wife and think its more likely 
than not Mr P wouldve declared everything if he had known about the heart failure and been 
asked different questions by Mapfre. Im also not persuaded that Mr P shouldve declared 
other issues raised by Mapfre; theres insufficient evidence available to me to make such a 
finding.
Putting things right
I think the fair and reasonable resolution is that Mapfre pays Mr Ps claim as if the premium 
had been fully paid. It remains able to apply the terms and conditions of the policy when 
considering the outstanding claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, SA should pay Mr Ps claim in full under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman