DRN-3367187
The complaint
Mr T complains that Tier One Capital Ltd (TOC) gave him unsuitable advice when they
recommended him multiple times to invest in the West Auckland (WA) Project, a private
funding circle (PFC) investment.
Mr T invested both from personal funds and later through his Self-Invested Personal Pension
(SIPP). His direct investment outside the SIPP forms part of a separate complaint, so this 
decision only deals with Mr Ts direct investments into WA through his SIPP.
What happened
Mr T had already previously invested into WA on the advice of TOC outside the SIPP in 
2015. Mr T transferred his personal pension worth around £290,000 to a SIPP in 2016. He 
was advised by TOC to invest £100,000 of his funds into the WA project in April 2016. Mr Ts 
capital was returned to him with interest and he reinvested the sum of £100,000 into the next 
stage of the project in March 2018.
WA was a lending project which started in 2015 to provide funding for a development of 110 
houses. The investment was part of a syndicated property loan with a maximum term of two 
years. Interest of 10% per year was to be paid to investors quarterly. TOC described the 
investment as being of moderate risk. 
TOC say interest payments stopped in late 2019 when the project suffered financial
difficulties. From what I understand there is no concrete prospect of when or if capital
repayments or further interest payments will be paid. TOC said eventual losses would be
known by the end of 2021, but the Financial Ombudsman Service has not been informed by
either party that a final conclusion on the project has been reached. 
Mr T complained in 2020. He says the investment has not carried the security in assets that
was promised. He says he was a cautious investor and he was not interested in risk
believing the investment to be asset backed. In an email to TOC in June 2020 he said:
These investments were sold to me on the basis there was very little to no risk as the
security would always cover any shortfall.
TOC admitted in their initial response to Mr T in May 2020 that there had been gaps in their
sales advice process and record keeping and they said there were inconsistencies in the
information Mr T was provided with. The adviser who had recommended the WA investment
to Mr T was not working for TOC anymore. They said it was unclear whether the advice to
invest into WA had been suitable or not.
They offered Mr T to delay the complaint resolution until the outcome of the project and full
losses would be known. TOC said they would then revisit the complaint. Alternatively, they
offered to use a forecasted capital loss position of 40%. After deducting interest payments
Mr T already received on his total direct investment into WA (which included £25,000 
invested from personal funds), they calculated losses to be £10,000 and offered to pay 
another £1,000 to acknowledge they had fallen below their service standards. They offered 
to keep this sum in TOCs account accruing interest of 3% a year and use it to pay for 
ongoing charges or-if Mr T didnt want to use their services anymore-pay the sum of £11,000 
to him directly.
Mr T rejected the proposals and referred his complaint to this service. TOC provided their file
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. They now say the advice given was suitable. Our 
investigator upheld the complaint. He considered Mr T was a cautious investor and that the 
WA investment exceeded his attitude to risk. He also felt Mr Ts exposure to the WA 
investment was too high, given that he also held other PFC investments.
TOC disagreed. They referred to Mr Ts significant overall asset value which includes large 
amounts of cash, several valuable cars, a buy to let property and company shares. They 
said when Mr T was advised to invest in 2016 the WA investment accounted for 6.6% of Mr 
Ts investable assets which was a reasonable amount. They also say Mr T fully understood 
the risks of the investment and had invested into numerous projects of a similar nature. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TOC gave Mr T investment advice and so they needed to make sure their recommendations
were suitable for him.
Mr T originally met with TOC in 2015. A meeting note dated 3 February said:
[Mr T] explained he would ideally wish to simply generate an income a bit better than what
he currently is achieving with a raft of cash deposits with the mainstream banks. [TOC]
discussed the importance of completing the risk questionnaire to allow a more informed
decision on where best to allocate funds within risk parameters they will be comfortable with
and which achieve their goals.
Mr T and his wife completed a risk questionnaire which showed Mrs T was very risk averse.
Mr T was recorded as being risk category 4 which I assume was equivalent to lowest
medium risk. He said on his attitude to risk form he was neither risk averse or a risk taker.
He strongly agreed or agreed with statements which said:
I have been extremely cautious in my past financial investments.
I believe that it is reckless to take financial risks
When Im faced with a financial decision I am generally more concerned about the 
possible losses than the possible gains
I would rather get a guaranteed rate of return than be uncertain about my 
investments.
I do not feel comfortable with financial uncertainty.
And he disagreed with:
I would accept potential losses in order to pursue long-term investment growth
Taking investment risks is important to me
He ticked a box to say he felt slightly comfortable when he took a financial risk andsmall/medium losses could be tolerated.
Having looked at the questions he answered I agree with the investigator that he was a
cautious investor. This is also backed up by the fact that Mr T and his wife held the vast 
majority of their money in cash and premium bonds. They had a rental property and Mr T 
had a pension. The couple didnt have any other significant investments at the time. And 
another meeting note on 4 February 2015 stated that the adviser thought the risk 
questionnaire suggested Mr T had a preference for lower risk investments. 
From what Ive seen Mr T wanted to get better returns than he got from cash deposits. An 
investment report in 2018 said Mr T wanted to do better than low returns on cash accounts 
and wanted to outpace inflation. This in my view is quite different to investing into high risk, 
unregulated investments. I dont think the evidence suggests he needed or wanted to take 
much risk with his money.
I appreciate Mr T was high net value client with large sums of cash available to invest. And
in comparison to his overall assets the sum invested in WA was relatively small. So I agree 
that he had the financial capacity to lose some of his investment. However, this doesnt 
make mean the investment was suitable. Ive also taken into account that by the time he was 
advised to invest through his SIPP, he already had been recommended PFC investments 
outside his SIPP. The adviser also suggested Mr T should invest his whole pension transfer 
value into PFC. A meeting note of 17 February 2016 shows the adviser recommended him 
to split £300,000 into four different projects. So Mr Ts exposure to higher risk investments 
was a lot higher than just his £100,000 investment through his SIPP into WA.
I dont think the PFC investments matched Mr Ts attitude to risk and were generally suitable 
for him. He didnt have any significant investment experience and so Im not persuaded he 
would have had the relevant knowledge and experience to fully understand the risks these
investments held. These were unregulated investments with substantial liquidity, credit and 
market risks. Even when he had entered several PFC investments, he had done so based 
on advice he received from TOC, so I dont think his knowledge and understanding of risks 
automatically would have increased. From what Ive seen he trusted the adviser to 
recommend investments which were in line with his attitude to risk.
Mr T kept referring to these investments being asset backed and a couple of years later he
said he preferred bricks and mortar to equity investments. TOC seems to take this as
evidence that Mr T understood what he was doing, however I take a different view.
I think Mr T likely thought the idea of having land or properties acting as a security was
reassuring and he might have felt he understood the concept of investing in property better
than equities which he didnt have experience with and might have felt more abstract and
volatile to him. Also TOC told him in 2016 this was a moderate investment which would have
given him no reason to think otherwise. 
And even in 2018, when TOC said WA was a high-risk investment, they reassured Mr T in 
their suitability report that 
the project is asset backed to a strong degree, and whilst this remains a private loan 
supporting a single project the project carry's a relatively conservative loan to Gross 
Development Value. The process outlined is therefore one which we feel can mitigate a 
large portion of the risks inherent in this activity however it is still sensible for each investor 
to acknowledge the potential for such a project to change in shape or form as the project 
progresses.I dont think this made it clear enough how much risk this investment really entailed and how 
this differed from the investments recommended before in the same project which were 
previously described as low and moderate investments.
In my view this investment from the start was a higher risk, non-standard and unregulated 
investment. Although I appreciate risk factors were described in the suitability report, I dont 
think Mr T would have understood the full risks of the PFC proposition in general. His wife 
was risk averse and he was cautious. I dont think the PFC investments were right for them.
They had no need to take risk with their money to achieve high returns. Their financial
situation in my view was comfortable and a diversified low risk portfolio of standard
investments which could have included for example bonds, gilts and property funds (if Mr T
didnt want to invest much in other equity shares) would have been far more suitable in my
view.
Whilst TOC have said the first investment was a moderate investment, I disagree. It
might have been less risky than later funding tranches, but I still think this non-standard
investment was a lot higher risk than Mr T was willing or had a need to take. I appreciate Mr 
T held quite a few of PFC investments in his portfolio and some were successful. 
Overall, I dont think the WA investment should have been recommended to Mr T.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr T
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable
advice. With suitable advice I think Mr T would have invested the sum of £100,000 differently 
in 2016 and would not have invested this sum again in 2018. I dont know exactly where Mr 
T would have invested his money instead, however I think the below recommendation is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
What should TOC do?
Mr Ts first investment in 2016 was successful and he received interest payments. It is the 
investment in 2018 which is in difficulty and which might cause Mr T losses.
Both Mr Ts gains and losses from the WA investments through his SIPP need to be taken 
into account here, as with suitable advice he also wouldnt have earned any interest from the 
WA investments.
To compensate Mr T fairly, TOC must:
Compare the value of Mr T's outstanding WA investment in the SIPP with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable. 
TOC should also pay interest as set out below. 
If TOC is unable to pay the total amount into Mr T's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr T wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr T's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr T would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If TOC deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr T how much has been taken off. TOC should give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr T asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
WA 
investmentStill exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bonds2016 Date of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid or like in this case its uncertain how much capital and/or 
interest will be returned, it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a 
case the actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr T agrees
to TOC taking ownership of the investment, if they wish to. If it is not possible for TOC to
take ownership, then they may request an undertaking from Mr T that he repays to TOC any
amount he may receive from the investment in future.
I appreciate TOC would like to wait until the value of the investment is known. However, I
dont think its fair for Mr T to have this continued uncertainty, so calculations should be
done now.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, TOC should
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. 
If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if TOC 
totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically. If any distributions or income were automatically paid out 
into a portfolio and left uninvested, they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair 
value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr T wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a
higher return.
I consider that Mr T's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50
combination would reasonably put Mr T into that position. It does not mean that Mr T
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of
index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly
reflects the sort of return Mr T could have obtained from investments suited to his
objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ts complaint and ask Tier One Capital Ltd to compensate him as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman