DRN-1440406
 
The complaint
Mr W complains about what happened when TSB Bank plc took some money out of his 
account by mistake. He wanted TSB to pay him for losses he said he incurred because of 
this, but it wouldnt.
What happened
Mr W said that on Friday 12 July, £800 was wrongly taken out of his account. TSB didnt pay 
it back until Monday 15 July. Mr W told us he only had £10 to live off over the weekend. He 
said this was extremely stressful, and he missed four days of work due to having no money 
for fuel. He said it also made his recurring depression worse. Mr W said TSB paid him £50, 
which he thought was an insult. He said hed expected to earn £250 per day for those four 
days, so he thought TSB should pay that, and £1,000 more for making his depression worse.
TSB said it was sorry it had made a mistake. It thought it had put it right reasonably quickly. 
Mr W had told TSB that he had a £100 charge for an overdue loan payment, and £250 per 
day in lost wages. TSB said if he sent it evidence of these losses, it would cover them.  It 
paid £50 for inconvenience, and said he wouldnt be left out of pocket. But then TSB 
considered the evidence Mr W sent of his losses, and said it wasnt able to pay him, based 
on the information hed sent.
Mr W then told us he hadnt worked because he wouldnt be able to carry out his high-risk 
work carefully, because of the stress he was under. And he said this was the only bank 
account he had at the time. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that although Mr W 
said he only had £10 to live off over the weekend, hed received a payment on 12 July that 
put his account in credit, and hed then taken more than that out on Sunday 13 July. So she 
didnt think he was left without any money over the weekend. And our investigator said that 
what Mr W had sent TSB wasnt conclusive proof of loss of earnings. She didnt think that 
TSB had been unfair by not doing more. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said the money he took out was money that he owed. He told us that 
he lost the work, and said he was still struggling mentally because of this. He thought TSB 
should put it right. This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Im sorry to hear that Mr W was experiencing recurring depression, and that this incident has 
made him feel worse. But I could only ask TSB to pay compensation for that if I think that 
was its fault. And in this case, I havent reached that conclusion.
Mr Ws account was in debit after TSB wrongly took £800 from him. Fortunately, Mr W 
received a payment the next day, which put his account back in credit. 
Mr W says he lost work over this weekend. He initially said that this was because he didnt 
have money for petrol, but then said it was because of the stress of TSBs mistake. I note 
that Mr W apparently also told TSB that hed lost money because of a late loan payment, but 
wasnt able to provide evidence of that. 
The only evidence we have of Mr Ws work is a diary entry, and a handwritten quote. Theres 
no way to be sure, from this evidence, whether Mr W completed that work or not. 
Considering the evidence that Mr W sent to TSB, and also because Mr W told TSB about 
another loss which he wasnt able to evidence, I cant say that it was unfair or unreasonable 
for TSB to decide that Mr W hadnt shown hed lost out because of its mistake. So I dont 
think its unreasonable for TSB not to pay this money to Mr W. 
TSB did pay Mr W £50 for inconvenience. I think that provides a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. So I wont ask TSB to do any more. 
I know Mr W will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman