DRN-4108715
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against him.
Background
In August 2019, Mr B received payments of £1,100.00, £9,000.00 and £4,300.00 into his 
account. Over the course of the following few days the vast majority of the funds were 
transferred on to third parties and withdrawn in cash. 
Lloyds subsequently received a notification that the funds had originated from a victim of 
fraud. Lloyds reviewed Mr Bs account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to record 
a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Mr B complained that it had been applied 
unfairly. Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. As Mr B remained dissatisfied, Mr B referred 
the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Lloyds has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr B is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that Lloyds must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Bs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Lloyds also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr B was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr B allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Bs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Lloyds had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Bs account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Lloyds did have enough 
to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Bs 
account in August 2019, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr B was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate funds. 
Mr B has said that he was approached by a man at his university who said he was an 
international student. He said he needed help receiving a payment from his mother as his 
account wasnt working and he would be evicted if he wasnt able to receive this payment.
Ive thought about what Mr B has said. But Im afraid that even if I were to accept that Mr B 
agreed to receive a payment from someone for them to pay their rent, this doesnt explain 
why he agreed to receive three payments totalling almost £15,000.00. Furthermore, Ive 
seen that some of the funds were then transferred using a payment service. Mr B says that 
the man asked him to pay his rent this way. But I would have expected Mr B to have 
questioned why the transfers werent made directly to Mr Bs landlord in the first place.
I also find it difficult to accept that Mr B reasonably believed that he was helping someone 
pay their rent when so much of the funds were being withdrawn from various different cash 
machines. And there was even a transfer made to someone, for more than the available 
funds Mr B would have had in his account but for the fraudulent funds, Mr B had paid before.  
Im afraid that the available evidence and Mr B being unable to provide anything at all to 
corroborate what, on the face of things, appears an implausible version of events means that 
I cant reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more 
likely than not he was complicit in his account receiving fraudulent funds. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Lloyds did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Bs account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr B was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Lloyds to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. So Im not upholding this complaint and Im not requiring Lloyds to 
take any action in relation to the fraud marker. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr B. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell appreciate why a fraud marker has been recorded against him. 
Furthermore, Mr B might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman