DRN-3618583
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy TSB Bank plc (TSB) is holding him liable for a cash machine withdrawal 
which he says he didnt make. 
What happened
On 11 October 2020, Mr H says he visited a TSB branch and used his debit card at the 
ATM. Mr H recollects this was around 12:07 pm. 
Mr H says his card was retained by the ATM. Hes said that he waited until around 12:28 pm 
to see if his card would be returned by the ATM machine but it wasnt. 
A relative of Mr Hs contacted TSB on his behalf to advise that his debit card had been 
retained by the ATM. At this point, TSB cancelled the card and arranged for a new one to be 
issued. 
The following day, Mr H says he returned to the TSB branch in an attempt to retrieve his 
debit card from the ATM. He told us a staff member at the branch had retrieved a card but 
that this was not his TSB debit card. Mr H commented that the card the staff member 
returned with did not appear to be a TSB card. 
Mr H explained that whilst at the branch, he was told £450 had been withdrawn from his 
account on 11 October 2020. This had been made at another ATM located around 
10 minutes walk away from the TSB branch (for ease Ill refer to it as ATM 2). Mr H has 
confirmed that hes made withdrawals from ATM 2 previously as this is close to where he 
works.
The cash withdrawal of £450 at ATM 2 was made at 12:26 pm on 11 October 2020. 
On 12 October 2020, Mr H called TSB to say his card had been retained but £450 had been 
withdrawn from his account. Based on this call, TSB say the advisor correctly submitted an 
ATM dispute for £450. On 14 October 2020, £450 was credited to Mr Hs account whilst the 
claim was investigated. Following its investigation, TSB redebited the amount of £450 as it 
says the amount was dispensed correctly by the provider of ATM 2. 
Mr H says he visited the TSB branch in November 2020, after the funds were re-debited 
from his account. Mr H added that, as he hadnt heard anything from TSB, he called its Head 
Office and was offered a branch appointment to see a manager, but that this wasnt until 
around four months later in February 2021. Mr H says the appointment was cancelled on the 
day - a few hours before the appointment time. He says he was told hed be contacted with 
another appointment but was not. He then received communication from TSB to say it 
couldnt help him with this matter.  
A complaint was raised. TSB investigated and said that it wasnt going to refund the ATM 
withdrawal of £450. It said Mr Hs card hadnt been retained by the ATM at the TSB branch 
and that this was supported by the fact the debit card was used shortly after at ATM 2. It 
added that there is also no explanation of how Mr Hs PIN could have been obtained by a 
third party. However, when considering the concerns Mr H had raised about the level of 
service received, it did acknowledge Mr H didnt received a call back from a manager and for 
this it apologised. 
Mr H remained unhappy with TSBs response and asked our service to proceed to look into 
his complaint. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint and said he didnt think TSB had acted 
unfairly in not reimbursing the £450. He said that TSB had shown Mr Hs genuine card was 
used to make the withdrawal and that the correct PIN was entered. He was satisfied, in all 
the circumstances, that the withdrawal was authorised and on balance, he thought it was 
more likely than not that Mr H had consented to the withdrawal. It followed that our 
Investigator didnt think it was fair to hold TSB liable for the withdrawal from ATM 2. 
However, he did think TSB could have provided a better level of service, agreeing with the 
aspect it had upheld relating to the appointment to meet with the branch manager. He 
thought TSB should have done more to put things right and recommended TSB pay Mr H 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the customer service 
issues. 
TSB agreed with our Investigators recommendation of £100. But Mr H wasnt happy with 
what our investigator said, saying that he wanted the £450 to be reimbursed. He asked for 
an ombudsman to look into his complaint. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
In cases when there is a dispute about what happened, I base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in the 
light of the available evidence.
Having considered everything that both parties have said and provided, I find this complaint 
should be upheld in part. I will now explain why.
Whether a payment transaction has been authorised or not is important because account 
holders will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, banks 
will be liable for unauthorised payments. If Mr H made the disputed transaction himself or 
authorised for it to be made on his behalf, it would not be fair to ask TSB to refund it. But 
Mr H has said that he did not make the withdrawal himself. Hes also told our investigator 
that his card is always with him and that hes never shared his PIN or card with anyone else. 
He also said that nobody had ever made a cash machine withdrawal or purchase on his 
behalf. 
TSB has provided evidence that Mr Hs genuine card and PIN were used to make the 
disputed cash withdrawal - this means Mr Hs actual card was used. But the regulations 
relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable TSB to hold him liable. I 
also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that 
Mr H consented to the withdrawal being made.Ive considered the options for whats most likely to have happened. These are that the 
withdrawal could have been made by an unknown third party, by someone known to Mr H, or 
by Mr H himself. From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for TSB to conclude that 
Mr H authorised the transaction. This is because:
To carry out the disputed withdrawal a fraudster would have needed to access Mr Hs debit 
card and PIN. Mr H explained that he hadnt shared his PIN with anyone, and hes told us 
the debit card was always with him. 
I can see from our Investigators review that consideration has been given to whether Mr Hs 
PIN could have been obtained by shoulder surfing  in other words, a third party looking 
over someones shoulder when they are entering a PIN. But the evidence provided by TSB 
shows that Mr Hs card wasnt used at the TSB branch ATM as he recollects. Had Mr H used 
his card at the TSB branch ATM he would have needed to present his debit card and enter 
his PIN into the machine. In doing so, an electronic footprint would have been left to show 
this activity even if no cash withdrawal successfully took place. However, the information 
provided to us doesnt show this. It shows that Mr Hs card and PIN were used to make the 
withdrawal from ATM 2 and that prior to the disputed cash withdrawal, Mr H last used his 
card at the same ATM on 7 October 2020.  
Whilst I dont doubt what Mr H has told us is his honest recollections of what happened, on 
balance and, based on the information provided to me, Im unable to safely conclude that his 
card was used at the TSB branch ATM. 
Further, when carefully considering the possibility of shoulder surfing, Im afraid I dont find 
this plausible in the circumstances. Given that Mr Hs card and PIN wasnt used in the TSB 
branch ATM on 11 October 2020, for me to conclude that a fraudster obtained his PIN whilst 
he input this into a machine would mean this wouldve needed to have happened when Mr H 
last used his card and PIN on 7 October 2020. 
This would then have meant that an opportunistic fraudster would have had to wait several 
days before having the opportunity to obtain Mr Hs card. And to do this, they would have 
needed to have been aware of Mr Hs whereabouts and movements. I dont think this is a 
plausible explanation as to how the withdrawal happened and Im not persuaded a fraudster 
would have had such knowledge. 
Im also unable to find a plausible explanation for how someone else would have known this 
information, when hes explained his card was always in his possession up until the point he 
says the ATM retained it. 
Further Im mindful that in order for a fraudster to have been able to carry out the withdrawal 
they also would have had to obtain Mr Hs debit card which, according to his testimony, was 
not returned by the TSB Branch ATM. Mr H says he waited by the ATM for around 
21 minutes to see if his card would be returned by the machine at the time the disputed 
withdrawal at ATM 2 was made. This means in order for an opportunistic fraudster to obtain 
his card (for example, if a false front been placed on the ATM), they would have needed to 
have gained his card whilst he was still present at the ATM machine without him noticing. Im 
afraid I find this unlikely given Mr Hs own recollections.  
I recognise Mr H feels strongly about this matter and that hes said he was waiting at a 
different ATM to the one used to make the disputed withdrawal and that, the machine didnt 
return his card. But for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied that the transaction was 
more likely than not made by Mr H. As such, I cannot fairly or reasonably require TSB to 
reimburse him the £450 cash withdrawal in dispute.I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, but I hope he understands why Ive 
reached the decision I have about the ATM withdrawal.
However, I consider TSB could have provided Mr H with a better level of service. TSB 
appears to agree with this point following its acceptance to pay £100 compensation to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience this has caused to Mr H. Taking everything into account, I 
agree with our Investigator that £100 compensation should be paid to Mr H and that this is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Because of this, I make no further 
award in respect of this aspect. 
Putting things right
TSB Bank plc should pay Mr H £100 compensation (if it has not already done so) in 
recognition of the inconvenience Mr H experienced. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I direct TSB Bank plc to put 
things right by doing what Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman