DRN-3013435
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS), following the return of his car.
What happened
On 22 September 2017, Mr F was supplied with a car through a contract hire agreement with 
MBFS. The agreement was for 36 months, with monthly payments of £338.15.
When the agreement came to an end, Mr F arranged to return the car. The car was collected 
on 22 January 2021, and the collection agent inspected the car for damage. Mr F said the 
agent told him that, except for a scratch to one wheel, the car was in a very good condition 
with acceptable wear and tear. He also said he was told that the peeling paint on a different 
wheel was caused by oxidation, so was also fair wear and tear, and that the collection agent 
failed to take away the literature pack Mr F tried to hand back.
When the car was returned, a second inspection took place. This inspection identified 
damage to the car in excess of what had been noted on the first inspection. Mr F received an 
invoice for damage to the car and for excess mileage. Mr F disputed the invoice and MBFS 
agreed the excess mileage charges were incorrect, removing them. But they didnt reduce or 
remove the damage charges.
Mr F was unhappy with MBFSs response, and he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said hed seen evidence the damage MBFS were charging for was present 
when the car was inspected. And the agreement Mr F had signed with MBFS allowed them 
to charge him for this damage. So he didnt think MBFS had done anything wrong.
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the damage to the car was caused by 
fair wear and tear, and he doesnt think MBFS should be charging for this. He asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr F was supplied with a car under a contract hire agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the contract hire agreement, which Mr F signed on 22 September 2017. 
Under the heading Vehicle Return Standards (VRS), the agreement goes on to explain 
what is, and isnt, considered acceptable damage under the VRS. It also explains that when 
the vehicle is returned to us, a Vehicle Return Standard Inspection will be carried out by 
trained technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre.
MBFS also provide customers with another copy of their VRS, six months before the end of 
any agreement. So, Im satisfied Mr F shouldve been reasonably aware of what level of 
damage was and wasnt acceptable to MBFS when the car was returned. And he should 
also have been reasonably aware that an inspection would take place once the car had been 
returned to MBFS, regardless of whether an inspection took place at the point of collection 
as well.
Ive seen a copy of the report completed by the collection agent on 22 January 2021. This 
says the car was collected at 7:30pm and the associated photographs show the collection 
took place in poor light conditions. The report also says there was snow at the time of 
collection and the car was dirty. Im satisfied that these conditions could mean that a proper 
inspection of the car may not be able to take place. And some damage could be missed.
Whilst Im aware of what Mr F said the collection agent told him, the collection agents report 
says the car was only in an average condition, and that there was damage to both offside 
wheels. There are also photographs that show damage to these two wheels.
Ive also seen the report from the inspection that took place on 26 January 2021.This report 
says the literature pack was missing; that there was damage to all four wheels; that there 
were dents/chips (with paint damage) to two doors; and that there was a dent to another 
body panel. The report also contains a video and photographs showing the damage. From 
examining the video and the photographs, Im satisfied that the damage to the car falls 
outside of the VRS. And is therefore chargeable.
The car was collected (and transported on the back of a truck) on 22 January 2021, when it 
had done 31,599 miles. And the second inspection took place four days later, when the car 
had done 31,600 miles. Taking this into consideration, Im satisfied its more likely than not 
that the damage to the car took place in the more than 3 years that Mr F was in possession 
of the car, rather than during the four days between inspections.
Im also aware of Mr Fs comments about the literature pack. But I think he couldve put this 
in the car himself; or made the collection agent aware it hadnt been picked up as they were 
leaving. He could also have contacted MBFS after collection to explain whatd happened and 
arranged to send this to them by post. But he didnt do this, and by not doing so, he didnt try 
to mitigate the situation. 
So, while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr F, I think that MBFS acted 
reasonably by charging for the damage to the car and for the missing literature pack, and I 
wont be asking them to amend their invoice.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman