DRN-4335020
The complaint
Mr R complains that Ageas Insurance Limited declined his claim on his contents insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr R had a contents insurance policy for the property he lives in. In July 2022 he made a 
claim after there was a break in at his home. However Ageas declined the claim as it said he 
hadnt been able to validate the claim and that there was no evidence that the theft had 
involved a forced entry. And that meant it was excluded under the policy. 
Mr R disagreed, as he said the thieves had gained entry through force and hed had the 
locks changed because of this. He made a complaint but Ageas didnt uphold it. So he 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought Ageas had acted fairly by declining the claim. As Mr R didnt agree, 
the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs insurance policy covers him for theft of his contents. However, the policy explains that 
it doesnt cover: 
Theft or attempted theft which does not involve force and violence to get into or out of Your 
Home while it is lent, let or sublet by You. 
Mr R has provided a number of explanations for how the thieves may have gained access to 
his home. Including by picking the lock and by gaining access through a damaged letter box. 
However he hasnt provided any evidence of how the theft happened or that force was used. 
When an insurance claim is made, its first for the insured to show that an insured event 
happened  thats something thats covered under the policy. And then its for the insurer to 
either accept the claim or show that an exclusion applies. 
Here, Mr R hasnt provided enough evidence to validate the claim in the first instance. His 
account of events and what was stolen has changed a number of times and it is unclear 
exactly how events unfolded.
Further, there is nothing to show that the thieves used forced entry to get access. Usually 
wed expect to see photos or evidence of the damage that was caused by the force, or an 
account from the person who fixed the damage or from a witness. But Ive not seen anything 
here. 
Mr R has shown that he changed the locks in April 2022, but this is before the incident so 
isnt relevant. Hes also provided a receipt from a locksmith in July 2022, but this has no 
details of what it relates to or why the locks were changed. 
And even if he could show he had changed the locks because of this incident, this still 
doesnt show that there was a theft due to forced entry. There are many reasons why locks 
are changed, not just because theyre damaged. And Mr R has commented that he has 
concerns that someone else has a key to his flat, which would also present a good reason to 
change the locks. But if the thieves had accessed the property by using a key, then policy 
cover wouldnt apply as forced entry wouldnt have happened. 
I also note, Mr R has provided a submission he has sent to the police. However, I dont 
consider this to be persuasive evidence of forced entry, as its just his account of what 
happened with no evidence of any further action that was taken. 
Based on this, I dont think Mr R has provided enough evidence to validate his claim, And 
there isnt enough to show that the theft happened due to forced entry. I therefore conclude 
that Ageas has acted fairly by declining his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman