DRN-2753971
The complaint
 M, a limited company, complains about Barclays Bank UK Plcs decision to withdraw their 
offer of a Bounce Back Loan (BBL). 
In bringing this complaint, M is represented by its director, who I refer to as Mr W. 
  
What happened
 In May 2020 M opened a business current account with Barclays and later applied for a 
£50,000 loan under the government-backed BBL Scheme. When M applied for the loan, it 
gave its business start date as 17 February 2020. 
Barclays approved the loan and on 18 May 2020 the funds were credited to Ms business 
account pending further checks. Barclays say the due diligence checks which they carried 
out afterwards to verify the information M provided in its application showed that its start date 
didnt match with Companies House records. Those records indicated M was incorporated 
on 3 April 2020. Barclays didnt think M was eligible for the BBL as, under the Scheme rules, 
a business had to be established on or before 1 March 2020. M wasnt therefore allowed 
access to the funds and Barclays asked Mr W for evidence of any pre-incorporation trading.
Mr W provided copies of receipts for food produce purchased in February 2020 and 
restaurant menus. 
On 17 July 2020 Barclays placed restrictions on Ms account while they conducted a review. 
These were lifted on 23 July 2020, but Barclays still withheld the BBL funds from M. 
Ultimately Barclays concluded that the evidence Mr W had provided didnt sufficiently 
demonstrate M was trading prior to 1 March 2020. In December 2020 Barclays removed the 
BBL from Ms account. 
M didnt agree with Barclays decision to reverse the BBL and referred its complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said, in summary, that:
Barclays should have completed their due diligence checks before starting the 
process for drawing down the BBL funds. Had they done so to begin with, their 
checks would have shown that M was incorporated after 1 March 2020 and didnt 
therefore qualify for the BBL. 
Having determined M wasnt eligible for the BBL under the Scheme rules, Barclays 
were entitled to terminate their agreement with M and recall the BBL. 
M didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and has asked for an ombudsmans review 
of its case. M believes Barclays took too long to reach their decision not to release the BBL 
and it says the delay prevented it from applying elsewhere for a similar loan. 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 It isnt in dispute that M was incorporated on 3 April 2020. Companies House records 
confirm as much, and M has told us that although it applied for incorporation in February 
2020, delays in the process meant actual incorporation didnt happen until then. 
The Scheme rules confirm that businesses incorporated on or after 1 March 2020 do not 
qualify for a BBL. Since M was incorporated after 1 March 2020, it wasnt eligible for a BBL 
in its capacity as a limited company. So, I do not find Barclays did anything wrong when they 
arrived at that conclusion. In the circumstances, I am satisfied that Barclays decision to 
withhold and later withdraw the BBL was reasonable. I note, nonetheless, that Barclays did 
go on to explore whether it was possible for Mr W to apply for the BBL perhaps as a sole 
trader. But ultimately, that also proved to be unsuccessful.
Mr W says Barclays took too long to let M know it wasnt eligible for the BBL and the delay 
prevented M from applying elsewhere for the BBL. 
Barclays asked Mr W for evidence of pre-incorporation trading after they denied M access to 
the BBL. And Barclays records show Mr W sent them evidence in the middle of June 2020. 
But I cant see that Mr W was given a clear explanation as to why M didnt qualify for the 
BBL until August. 
Barclays records show that they telephoned Mr W on 17 August 2020 to let him know M 
didnt qualify for the BBL. So, the position was made clear at this point.
Later, on 21 August 2020, Barclays confirmed in writing the explanation theyd provided in 
their earlier phone call. Their letter also stated clearly the reasons for withholding the BBL 
and circumstances in which it might be possible for Mr W to qualify as a sole trader. So, 
while I agree that it took a little longer than necessary to confirm the position, I think M 
wouldve known what was happening  and why  at this point.
Mr W has said that the delay in clarifying the position prevented M from applying elsewhere 
for a BBL. I accept M wouldnt have been able to apply to another lender for a BBL while 
awaiting a decision from Barclays, given M could only make one application at any one time 
under the Scheme. But the Scheme ran until March 2021  so once M knew the banks 
position in August 2020, it had sufficient time to reapply elsewhere. In any case, it seems 
unlikely Ms application would have been any more successful in any event  as M didnt 
meet the eligibility criteria under the Scheme rules as explained above. 
So, in summary, I think Barclays reached the correct decision to withdraw the BBL from M as 
it wasnt eligible under the Scheme rules. And while accepting there was a delay in clearly 
telling M why it had done so, I dont think this impacted Ms position.  
  
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman