DRN-3438801
The complaint
Mr P complains that U K Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to UKI, I include its repairer and others insofar as I hold UKI responsible for 
their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a hatchback car, first registered in about 
2011. It had a rear-view camera.
Mr P had the car insured on a comprehensive policy under which UKI was the insurance 
company responsible for dealing with any claim.
Unfortunately, on 19 August 2021, his car hit the rear of the vehicle in front. UKI arranged 
repairs.
After he went to collect the repaired car on 13 September 2021, Mr P complained about 
defects. UKI replaced the bonnet. But Mr P maintained that UKI should also repair the 
tailgate and the rear-view camera. He also said a wheel cap was missing.
By a final response dated early October 2021, UKI turned down the complaint about the 
tailgate and the rear-view camera. But it said it was sending Mr P a cheque £100.00 for 
inconvenience. It also offered to reimburse the cost of a set of wheel caps and later 
reimbursed an invoice for £16.99.
Mr P brought his complaint to us in October 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think there 
was enough evidence to say the issues with the boot and rear-view camera were accident- 
related or caused by the repairer. The investigator thought that, after the bonnet was 
replaced and they paid £16.99 for the new wheel cap, £100.00 compensation accurately 
addressed the impact this had on Mr P.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The boot was working before the accident. You never needed a key fob to open the 
boot (it could be done from just pressing the button inside the vehicle). 
A gentleman reassured him over the phone that the camera was working.
He doesnt understand how the camera and tailgate have stopped working.
It appears the repairer has caused the issue with the boot when investigating the 
camera fault.
UKI did repair the front of the vehicle, however still not to an adequate standard and 
with a clear dent on the bonnet of the car. This caused further stress to send his car 
back in and waiting for a courtesy car to arrive once again. 
He had to chase the insurer many times for an update, as well as time taken off from 
work. 
The compensation given for the inconvenience was nominal. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would expect UKI to repair damage caused to Mr Ps car in the accident he reported in 
August 2021. I would expect UKI to do such repair work so that it was to a reasonable 
standard first time around. I wouldnt expect UKI to put right damage or defects that hadnt 
been caused in the accident.
Ive seen a photograph of the first repair of the bonnet. I cant see any dent. But UKI 
replaced the bonnet, while providing Mr P with a courtesy car. 
Theres not enough evidence to show what happened to the wheel cover that was missing. 
But UKI reimbursed Mr P for the cost of replacement.
Ive noted Mr Ps statements that the rear-view camera and tailgate were working normally 
before the accident, but not after the accident and repairs.
Ive also noted the statement from UKIs engineer including the following:
the technician that looked at it has explained to me what he found, before any work
was done a pre scan was carried out, that scan showed that there was a fault with 
the camera, he then removed the interior tailgate trim to access the camera, he found 
that the camera had already been tampered with, it was explained to me that the 
camera sits behind the [car maker] badge, when reverse is selected the camera 
extends out pushing the [car maker] badge up out of the way so that the camera lens 
can now been seen, this action is not working on this vehicle and that is because the 
motor which operates the camera extension has seized up / burnt out so now when 
reverse gear is selected the camera clicks into operation but it does not extend out, 
so all that it is seeing is the back of the [car maker ] badge, the technician informed 
me that someone had tampered with the motor because it was seized up in the 
extended position, meaning the badge would be in the pushed up out of the way 
position, but someone has made it so that the camera can be retracted in so that the 
[car maker] badge would then sit flat again, they have done this by disengaging the 
spindle mechanism from the motor, so this is evidence that the issue was pre existing 
and that the customer was almost certainly aware of the issue.
The camera does work but it's the motor that drives the extension and retraction that 
has seized up and because the mechanism has been tampered with so that the [car 
maker] badge will sit flat, the locking and unlocking via the key fob has also been 
affected, so the camera operation and the locking and [unlocking] are both related to 
the same issue. NOT ACCIDENT RELATEDIve weighed up what Mr P and the engineer have each said. I prefer the engineers 
evidence because it is more detailed. 
So I find that the camera itself was working before and after the accident. But the motor to 
extend the camera wasnt working either before or after the accident. Im satisfied that UKI 
gave Mr P correct information about this. I dont find that UKI treated Mr P unfairly by 
declining to do any further work to resolve the problem.
I consider that UKI is responsible for some contradictory information about the operation of 
the tailgate. But I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that UKI was responsible 
for causing an issue with the tailgate. So I dont find that UKI treated Mr P unfairly by 
declining to do any further work to resolve the problem.
Generally, Ive found that UKI didnt communicate with Mr P as well as it shouldve done. So 
he felt he had to spend time on chasing for progress. 
But I find it more likely than not that Mr P had noticed before the accident that his car had an 
issue with the rear-view camera. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to pay 
compensation for his time in chasing that issue.
I keep in mind that the issue with the bonnet meant that Mr P was without his own car and 
having to use a courtesy car for a second time. I also keep in mind that this was for a 
reasonably limited period.
Overall, Im satisfied that  by paying compensation of £100.00 - UKI has done enough to 
make up to Mr P for the shortcomings in its service. I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct UKI to pay Mr P any more compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman