DRN-4351049
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with how Canada Life Limited handled a claim he made on his employers 
group income protection policy. 
What happened
Mr P made a claim on his employers group income protection policy. The claim was 
accepted and Canada Life began to pay benefit to Mr P. However, Mr P received 
substantially less money than he was expecting. This was due to his salary sacrifice 
arrangements which reduced the earnings appearing on his P60. 
Canada Life hadnt agreed to cover this arrangement when the policy was taken out and so 
paid Mr P the salary on his P60. They met with Mr Ps employer and agreed to cover the 
arrangement, outside of the policy terms, and backdated the payment. Mr P complained to 
Canada Life about the undercalculation of the benefit and delays in handling the claim. 
Canada Life explained why theyd paid a lower benefit initially and offered £250 for delays 
which theyd identified during the time in which the claim was being assessed. Unhappy, 
Mr P made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. He 
didnt think Canada Life had acted unreasonably when assessing the claim. And he thought 
the £250 compensation was fair.
Mr P didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that he wanted 
to provide more information. Mr P asked for additional time to respond due to illness and our 
investigator asked for further information before agreeing to an extension. Mr P didnt 
provide any further information despite a further email from our investigator to confirm that 
the case was now awaiting review by an ombudsman. So, I now need to make a decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Canada Life has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. 
Im not upholding this complaint as I dont think Canada Life needs to do anything further to 
put things right. I say that because: 
I think Canada Life reasonably relied on Mr Ps P60 earnings when assessing the 
claim. That was in line with the relevant policy terms applicable to the group scheme. 
Canada Life met with Mr Ps employer and agreed to step outside the policy terms 
and cover the difference between the P60 earnings and his total salary before salary 
sacrifice was applied. I think that was fair and reasonable. 
A payment was made to Mr Ps employer as a back payment to cover the difference 
between the reduced payments and the updated calculation. Im satisfied that 
payment was made within a reasonable timescale. 
There were some short delays in the claim being handled which Canada Life 
acknowledged when responding to Mr Ps complaint. Some delays were outside of 
Canada Lifes control, for example when they were waiting for medical evidence. 
Mr P was sometimes pointed to his employer for information during the claims 
process. I think Canada Life has given Mr P a reasonable explanation as to why that 
was appropriate. So, Im not persuaded that was unreasonable in the circumstances 
of this case. 
I think the offer of £250 fairly reflects the impact of the delays in Canada Lifes control 
on Mr P at a time when he was worried and unwell. However, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to increase the award as Im satisfied £250 fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr P.   
My final decision
Canada Life Limited has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Canada Life Limited 
should pay £250 if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman