DRN-3892381
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited progressed a legal 
expenses insurance claim from August 2020. 
What happened
Ms A was involved in a road traffic accident in December 2019. She made a claim on her 
motor legal expenses policy for assistance in pursuing a personal injury claim. Panel 
solicitors were appointed to consider the claim. At the end of July 2020 the panel solicitors 
told RSA they wouldnt be acting for her anymore. Issues relating to that period have been 
considered by our Service separately and dont form part of this complaint. 
Ms A identified an alternative firm who she wanted to act for her. RSA said in September 
2020 it would consider their appointment subject to a supportive assessment on the claims 
prospects of success being provided. The following month that firm told RSA Ms A didnt 
want to progress matters with them. RSA asked Ms A if she had a different solicitor dealing 
with the case. She said she was unable to find one and asked RSA to appoint one. 
RSA said it would but drew Ms As attention to the policy terms including the need to 
following the advice of the authorised professional. Ms A was unhappy with that. RSA 
apologised for any offence caused. Panel solicitors were appointed and updated RSA during 
2021 with progress. This mainly related to efforts to obtain medical information relating to the 
injuries Ms A had suffered and their relationship to her accident. Matters were delayed 
because it proved difficult to obtain her GP records.
By April 2022 a report had been obtained from an orthopaedic surgeon. Ms A disagreed with 
the conclusions it contained and didnt agree to the further assessments it recommended. In 
June 2022 the panel firm told RSA that as Ms A hadnt provided instructions in relation to the 
report it wasnt able to continue acting for her. RSA issued a final response to the complaint 
she made the following month. It said her policy didnt provide cover where the authorised 
professional refuses to continue to act for you or claims where you fail to follow the advice 
or proper instructions of us or the authorised professional . It thought that applied here and 
explained it wouldnt be providing further funding for her claim. 
Our investigator thought RSA acted correctly in agreeing to appoint an alternative firm when 
the relationship with the previous panel firm broke down. And it was reasonable of it to 
remind Ms A of the policy terms as they relate to following the instructions of the authorised 
professional and co-operation. 
When the second panel firm refused to act for Ms A he thought RSA acted fairly in saying it 
would no longer provide cover for her claim. He didnt uphold the complaint. Ms A didnt 
agree. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say RSA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I appreciate this matter has been ongoing for some time. And its clear it has caused Ms A 
considerable distress at a time when shes had to contend with ongoing health issues. I was 
sorry to learn about this. But the question I need to consider is whether RSA did anything 
wrong in dealing with her claim. I cant consider what the solicitors involved with her claim 
did or didnt do. And the period Im looking at is from August 2020 (when our previous 
investigation concluded) to when the most recent final response was issued in July 2022. 
Ive reviewed what happened in that period. Like our investigator I agree it was right that 
when the relationship with the previous panel firm broke down RSA agreed to appoint an 
alternative firm. Initially it appeared Ms A had found her own firm (who RSA agreed the 
previous file could be passed to) but when it was clear she didnt want them to act I think 
RSA correctly agreed to appoint a panel firm. I dont think it was unreasonable of RSA to 
query why the firm shed found wouldnt act, or remind her of the policy terms, given the 
breakdown in relations with the previous panel firm. And I can see RSA in any case 
apologised for any offence that caused Ms A. 
Following that, matters were progressed by the new panel firm. I wouldnt expect RSA to be 
involved in the day to day running of a claim as that is for the solicitors involved to progress. 
And they provided regular updates to RSA on their progress and their efforts to obtain 
medical information. Ive read those updates and I dont think theres any further action RSA 
should reasonably have taken in response to them. 
I also think it was fair of RSA to say it would no longer provide funding for the claim when the 
relationship between Ms A and the new panel firm broke down in mid 2022. Her policy 
excludes costs incurred where you fail to give proper instructions in due time to us or to the 
authorised professional. Or if you withdraw instructions from or, fail to respond to the 
authorised professional, withdraw from the legal proceedings or the authorised professional 
refuses to continue to act for you. Its also a condition of cover being provided that You 
must give us and the authorised professional all the information and help required 
In this case I can see the panel solicitors advised RSA in June 2022 that Mrs A hadnt 
provided instructions in relation to evidence provided by an orthopaedic surgeon. And they 
couldnt progress the claim without her doing so. The panel firm said it could no longer 
represent her. Correspondence suggests it had been seeking Mrs As agreement on next 
steps for over two months. So I think RSA were right to say the above terms applied. And 
taking into account the reasons given by panel firm for not acting and that this was the 
second time relations with a panel firm had broken down I dont think it was unfair of RSA to 
say it would no longer provide funding for the claim. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman