DRN-3700346
The complaint
O complains about the delay with HSBC returning the money held in its account after it was 
closed.
What happened
O held an account with HSBC. HSBC closed Os account in 2019 and sent a cheque in the 
name of O for the money which was left in it. As O didnt have an alternative account, it 
couldnt cash the cheque and therefore, couldnt access its money. 
In February 2020, O applied for a new account with HSBC, but HSBC declined the 
application.
In March 2021, O contacted HSBC and asked for the funds to be paid into its new business 
account with a third-party bank. HSBC sent O a cheque on 24 May 2021.
O complained to our service about the time it took HSBC to give it access to its money. It 
thought over two years withholding the funds was excessive. Through our service, HSBC 
offered O £100 compensation for the delays in sending out the cheque, but O declined. 
In summary, O said:
The money withheld could have been used to generate income  and the 
shareholder has had to invest in the business through a loan which has interest 
payable.
The director has spent significant time on trying to resolve this issue and HSBC 
ignored the communication.
HSBC took over two months to issue another cheque once O had opened a new 
account.
HSBC made a counteroffer of £300 compensation. Our investigator endorsed the offer 
explaining that she couldnt consider the inconvenience to Os director because that 
individual is a separate legal entity to O. And no further evidence of losses had been 
provided and therefore our investigator thought £300 was reasonable in the circumstances.
O asked for an ombudsman to review things, so the complaint was passed to me.
In August 2022, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
The closure and reasons 
HSBC, like all UK banks, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet 
their legal and regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring 
of relationships they hold with their customers. 
Im aware HSBC asked O for information and O didnt respond to the information request as 
it was unaware that a letter had been sent due to receiving numerous correspondence from 
HSBC in the form of statements. I appreciate O feels HSBC should have made numerous 
contact attempts  including through telephone, email or online banking  but theyre not 
obliged it. Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship, and this can be for a number of 
reasons. In the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think HSBC made an unfair decision 
 and Im satisfied they complied with the terms of the account  so I wont be asking them 
to do anything differently.
Im also satisfied it is up to HSBC who they want as their customers  and therefore they 
were entitled to decline Os new account with them in February 2020.
The funds being returned
HSBC sent a cheque to O for the money left in the account at the same time they closed it. 
Its unfortunate O wasnt able to cash this cheque due to not having an account open with 
another bank at the time and Ive no doubt this caused significant issues as O couldnt 
access its own money. Ive thought very carefully about this, but I cant fairly hold HSBC 
responsible for that. HSBC could only reasonably send a cheque to O as the account was in 
the name of O  therefore nobody else  including Os personal director(s)  were entitled to 
the money. 
Im aware O opened a new account in March 2021 and asked HSBC to send a bank transfer 
to its new account. I havent seen anything to suggest O struggled to open an account 
because of HSBCs actions. I therefore cant reasonably uphold this complaint for the full 
extent of what O is asking for, because I cant hold HSBC responsible for the delays in O 
receiving the money between the closure and the time it opened a new account. 
When O asked HSBC to send a transfer to the new account, Id expect HSBC to have done 
this without any delays. Im aware O received the money in May 2021 and therefore I do feel 
there has been a delay in O receiving the funds which is the fault of HSBC.
So, I thought HSBC should recognise the time O was without its money by adding 8% simple 
interest and pay £300 compensation.
O, or its representative didnt respond to my provisional decision. HSBC accepted, and 
agreed with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party presented any additional evidence or arguments, I see no reason to depart 
from my initial findings. 
Putting things right
In summary, HSBC admitted the delay in releasing the funds to O was an error and therefore 
they should pay 8% simple interest to recognise the loss. Our service uses the 8% simple 
interest amount as this also reflects the current statutory interest rate on judgment debts and 
therefore, I consider it to be the fairest in the circumstances. HSBC should pay this amount 
from the date O asked for the money to be released  March 2021  up to the date they sent 
the transfer. 
I also believe the offer of £300 compensation is fair and wont ask HSBC to increase their 
offer of settlement for the distress and inconvenience caused. If they havent paid this yet to O, they should honour the offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained in my provisional decision, and above, I uphold this complaint.
To put things right, HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
Pay interest at 8% simple per year on the amount they withheld from O. They should 
calculate this from the date they received the request to make a transfer to Os new 
account up to the date O had access to the money.
Pay £300 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman