DRN-3764544
The complaint
Mrs B says National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly closed her credit card account and 
passed it to a debt collector when she was making her repayments. 
What happened
Mrs B says she has never missed a payment her credit card account, and is within her limit, 
yet NatWest has suspended her account and passed the debt to recoveries. She says 
NatWest offered her help but then did the opposite. She doesnt understand what it has 
proposed and if it will have adversely impacted her credit file. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. She explained that in March 2018 the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), introduced new persistent debt guidelines. 
As Mrs Bs account was identified as being in persistent debt this meant NatWest was 
obliged to contact Mrs B to try to help her reduce the balance faster. She said NatWest had 
evidenced that Mrs B responded to its letter to discuss her options. It wanted to speak to her 
to progress this but there were numerous failed call attempts. Mrs B completed an income 
and expenditure form but returned this without a proposed payment amount. As no 
agreement was reached NatWest suspended Mrs Bs account. In the circumstances our 
investigator found this to be reasonable, and allowed under the terms and conditions of the 
account.
Unhappy with this assessment Mrs B asked for an ombudsmans review. She asked if we 
think NatWest have done nothing wrong can we please explain what it has done to help.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service and as our rules allow I will 
focus here on the points I find to be material to the outcome of Mrs Bs complaint.
I am not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Bs account was identified by NatWest as being in persistent debt. The Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) persistent debt rules are set out on the FCA handbook, CONC 
6.7.27. They say (in summary) that firms such as NatWest must look at the accounts of 
borrowers to ensure theyre reducing their debts and therefore, not paying too much interest. 
And so  where a borrower is paying more in interest and fees than they are paying towards 
reducing the amount of the debt, then a repayment plan should be put in place to deal with 
this. And, where this cant be agreed, the card may be suspended  to stop customers from 
increasing their debts further. The intention of the rules is to ensure that customers are 
protected from paying too much interest  and in some cases, never actually repaying their 
debts. This typically happens if customers only pay the minimum amount each month, while 
still spending on their cards.
This is why NatWest wrote to Mrs B on 10 December 2021. I have looked at all the 
correspondence between the parties that followed. I can see that Mrs B had questions and 
concerns, but ultimately I think had she called the bank as it repeatedly requested a solution 
might have been found. I note she did submit a revised financial statement but she did not 
make a monthly offer of payment as requested. NatWest therefore wrote back explaining 
how this could be calculated, and which organisations could support her with free advice if 
needed. I am sorry Mrs B struggled financially as a result of the pandemic, but I cannot 
agree that the bank offered help and did the opposite. 
It followed the regulatory guidelines for cases of persistent debt, as it is obliged to, and as 
this did not result in an agreed payment plan it suspended Mrs Bs account and started the 
collections process.
It follows I do not find NatWest did anything wrong that it needs to put right. 
I would urge Mrs B to call the bank to agree a repayment plan, assuming an outstanding 
balance remains. I would remind NatWest of its obligation to treat Mrs B fairly and with 
forbearance, if relevant.
Mrs B sent in copies of more recent correspondence between the parties after our 
investigator issued her view. As NatWest had not had the opportunity to investigate these 
new issues it was doing so, and they are the subject of a separate complaint. So I cannot 
comment here on them as Mrs B requested. If she is unhappy with the banks final response 
letter she can raise a new complaint with this service.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman