DRN-3541896
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
surrounding a request he made to recover money hed sent to a recipient in error.
What happened
Mr D told Halifax hed transferred £130 to a third-party in error and that hed only intended to 
transfer £13. Mr D also confirmed that hed tried to contact the person whod received the 
funds to recover the money from them, but that hed been unable to do so. Halifax explained 
to Mr D theyd try to retrieve the £117 overpayment for him, but that the attempt was 
undertaken on a best endeavours basis, that it could take up to 20 working days, and there 
was no guarantee of successful. 
About two weeks later, Mr D called Halifax for an update, and was incorrectly told by 
Halifaxs agent that the money would be recovered and should be in his account within three 
weeks. Mr D called for another update two weeks later and was again told that he should 
receive the money shortly.
However, Halifax had actually been unsuccessful in recovering the overpayment for Mr D, 
and theyd sent a letter advising Mr D as such a few days before he called for an update for 
the second time. Mr D wasnt happy to learn that he wouldnt in fact be receiving the 
recovered overpayment as hed been told he would, and so he raised a complaint.
Halifax looked at Mr Ds complaint. They accepted theyd incorrectly said Mr D would receive 
the £117 on two occasions, and also that on the later occasion their agent should have seen 
the letter already sent to Mr D advising him the recovery attempt hadnt been successful. 
Halifax apologised to Mr D for this and paid him £40 as compensation for any upset and 
inconvenience he might have incurred. Mr D wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the complaint response issued 
by Halifax, including the apology and the payment of £40 compensation, already 
represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had happened. Mr D remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Halifax did provide Mr D the correct information when he first requested that the 
overpayment be recovered, including that there was no guarantee the attempt to recover the 
money would be successful, and that it might take up to 20 twenty working days to complete. 
But it's also clear that when Mr D called Halifax to chase the matter two weeks later that he 
was given incorrect information. What should have happened was that Halifax should have 
told Mr D his request was ongoing and that no update was available. But instead Mr D was 
told that the money would be recovered and would be returned to him in the near future.
Halifax dont dispute this, and they also acknowledge that Mr D wasnt correctly informed 
when he called them a second time, when he was again told that the money would be 
returned to him, and where their agent didnt see that a letter had already been sent to Mr D 
which advised they hadnt been able to recover the overpayment. And Halifax have 
apologised to Mr D for this and theyve made a £40 payment to him as compensation.
I feel its only right that Halifax should pay compensation to Mr D here, given the false 
expectations that their provision of incorrect information would have generated. But I dont 
feel that Halifax should be asked to reimburse Mr D the full £117 overpayment amount 
themselves, as Mr D has suggested. This is because, ultimately, the overpayment was the 
result of a mistake made by Mr D. And its also clear that Halifax did try to recover the 
overpayment for him in line with their processes but were unfortunately unable to do so.
What Halifax have compensated Mr D for here is their providing incorrect information to him. 
And while matters of compensation can be subjective, I feel the £40 Halifax have already 
paid is a fair amount in that regard, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what I 
would have instructed Halifax to pay, had they not already done so.
Mr D has said that because Halifax told him he would receive the money he took loans to 
cover costs that he then wasnt able to repay. Ive reviewed Mr Ds Halifax bank statements 
for the time in question, and while I appreciate these may not provide a complete picture of 
Mr Ds financial position, they dont appear to show any formal loans being taken or repaid. 
And while it may have been the case that Mr D took informal loans from friend or family, his 
bank statements also dont show that Mr D was put into as difficult a financial position by the 
non-receipt of the £117 to the degree that hes described. And as such, I dont feel that any 
further compensation beyond that which Halifax have already paid is merited in this instance. 
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr D was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Halifax to take any further action. And this is because 
Im satisfied that the response that Halifax have already issued to Mr D does represent a fair 
and reasonable resolution to this complaint. I hope that Mr D will understand, given all that 
Ive explained here, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman