DRN-4030412
The complaint
Mr K complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni), has rejected the claim he 
made under sections 75 and 140 and of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to a solar panel system, hot water controller and voltage optimiser (the system). 
What happened
In 2018, Mr K bought the system from a supplier using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Omni, which was repayable over ten years. 
In 2022, Mr K engaged a claims management company (the CMC), which sent Omni a 
letter of claim alleging that the supplier had misrepresented the system, breached its 
contract with Mr K, and that Mr Ks relationship with Omni was unfair on him because:
There were misleading figures in the quote  specifically the your savings and 
earnings summary table, which had the following issues: 
oThe voltage optimiser savings were too high, which was not supported by 
industry reports that were available at the time.
oThe electricity savings were too high  they shouldve been based on a self-
consumption rate of 50% (the industry standard), rather than the 75% self-
consumption rate that was used. 
oThe cost of credit was missing from the table, distorting the return on 
investment to make the system more attractive.
Mr K also mentioned in his witness statement that he was told the system would pay for itself 
from the first year through the income and savings. So, Ive also considered whether that 
was likely and if this was a misrepresentation. 
Omni did not uphold the claim and the CMC referred a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about this. Our investigator considered the matter and found that some 
assumptions about inflation were incorrect in the quote which made the estimated benefits 
appear higher than they shouldve been. And that Omni should pay Mr K the difference of 
£116.28. 
Omni accepted this and offered to make the payment of £116.28  either direct to Mr K or by 
crediting his loan account. Mr K didnt accept this, so Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to direct Omni to pay Mr K £116.28 in settlement of this complaint. But I have 
otherwise concluded that no further compensation is necessary. 
Relevant considerations
The CMC has made the claim under sections 75 and 140 of the Act. So, I have considered 
these sections in particular, as well as other relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory 
rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. I have read all of the 
CMCs and Omnis submissions and taken all of these into account when making my 
decision.
The quote 
Im satisfied that the quote was provided to Mr K during the sales meeting. It was signed by 
him at that time, and he provided a copy of it to us. So, I think the quote provides important 
evidence of what was likely discussed before Mr K agreed to the purchase. 
The quote provided to us by Omni was slightly different in terms of the information provided. 
But I have relied on the one Mr K has provided since he must have been given this by the 
supplier. He says this was the only quote he was given. 
The basic price and overall cost of the system
The basic (or cash) price of the system was set out clearly in the quote and the credit 
agreement as £6,670.00. However, the overall cost to Mr K was more, due to him paying for 
the system using an interest-bearing loan.
The quote showed several repayment options, including one over 120 payments of £86.46 
per month. This was £1.53 per month more than the actual amount on the credit agreement. 
But I think Mr K wouldve understood from the quote roughly how much the loan would cost 
per month. 
The credit agreement clearly sets out that the loan was repayable through [loan months] 
monthly payments of £84.93. It shows the total amount payable would be £10,291.91 
including the £100.00 deposit. So, I think that the monthly and total overall cost that Mr K 
would pay for the system was made clear to him when he agreed to buy it.
Allegation  Mr K was told the system would pay for itself because the benefits would 
exceed the loan repayments from the first year
The quote provided by Mr K does include a table that suggests the estimated benefits of the 
system would exceed the loan repayments in the first year. If the estimates were based on 
unreasonable assumptions then I would say this was a misrepresentation. However, if they 
were based on reasonable assumptions I would not say this was a misrepresentation just 
because Mr K has not realised those savings. 
In any case, Mr K has been unable to provide sufficient evidence to show that the system 
has not paid for itself in the way he was told. 
Allegation  the voltage optimizer saving contradicts reports available at the time of sale and 
was beyond the range of reasonableness
The CMC has suggested the estimated voltage optimiser savings were too high, given 
various reports that were available at the time. However, I understand that the suppliers 
method of calculating the savings was approved by an industry body, which is more qualified 
than I am to know if it was reasonable at that time. So, given the estimated benefits appear to have been reasonable at the time I do not think 
that this was a misrepresentation, even if Mr K has not realised those savings  which he 
has been unable to provide sufficient evidence of in any case. 
Allegation  The electricity savings were too high  they shouldve been based on a self-
consumption rate of 50% (the industry standard), rather than the 75% self-consumption rate 
that was used  
To calculate the savings from the solar panels, the supplier used a self-consumption rate of 
75%. Self-consumption rate is the proportion of electricity generated by the solar panels that 
the supplier assumed that Mr K could use himself, rather than exporting it to the grid. My 
understanding is that the supplier tailored the self-consumption rate based on what it knew 
about the customer and how he used electricity.
The CMC has argued that the supplier shouldve used the industry standard self-
consumption rate of 50% when calculating the savings. But I dont think it was unreasonable 
for the supplier to tailor the self-consumption rate based on the information available to it. 
And I have not seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that the self-consumption rate used 
by the supplier was unreasonable in this instance. 
I understand the suppliers methods were checked by an industry body before the supplier 
started using them, and no objection its methods was raised at that time. So, I think that, for 
the time when the quote was prepared, I cant reasonably conclude that the self-
consumption rate was unreasonable.
The electricity savings from the solar panels were based on reasonable assumptions about 
the amount of electricity generated by the system and the self-consumption rate (other than 
the issue with the inflation rate). So, I dont think those savings estimates were a 
misrepresentation. That remains the case even if the savings have not in fact been as high 
as estimated. In any event, Mr K has been unable to provide sufficient evidence to show the 
estimated savings havent been realised. 
Allegation - the cost of credit was missing from the your savings and earnings summary 
table, distorting the return on investment to make the system appear more attractive
The your savings and earnings summary table would have been clearer if the table had 
included the cost of credit. However, I must consider the sale as a whole, not just one table 
in one of the documents that was provided at the time of sale. Having done so, Im satisfied 
that Mr K knew what he was paying for the system, including the cost of credit. This was 
shown on the credit agreement. So, he could compare this to the estimated benefits before 
deciding to buy the system.
In addition to this, the finance repayments page of the quote showed a table that did 
incorporate the cost of credit into its illustration of the benefits of the system. 
Mr K could also have looked at the estimated performance to work out how long it would be 
before the overall benefits of the system exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement.
Incorrect inflation data in quote
Our investigator has identified that the inflation rate used didnt match the underlying data 
the supplier referred to. And she recommended the difference be paid to Mr K, which Omni 
has agreed to do. I think this is a fair and reasonable resolution in this case. Summary
The inflation figures used in the quote to calculate the estimated savings were slightly higher 
than they shouldve been based on the underlying data the supplier referred to. This means 
the estimated benefits were higher than they shouldve been. 
Other than that issue, I have not found reason to uphold the complaint or to award any 
additional compensation. 
To put this right, Omni has offered to pay Mr K the difference between what was shown on 
the quote and what they shouldve been. This amounts to a payment of £116.28. 
I think Omni should make this payment direct to Mr K. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint only in relation to the wrong inflation data being used in the quote. 
To put things right Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited should pay Mr K £116.28. This 
amount should be paid to Mr K directly. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman