DRN-2771617
The complaint
Mr T complained that AXA didnt properly investigate his claim under his motor insurance 
policy, and this caused him financial loss. 
What happened
Mr Ts car was parked in a supermarket car park when it was damaged by another car 
whose driver (the third party) left the scene without leaving their details. Mr T felt that AXA 
delayed in trying to get the supermarkets CCTV footage of the incident to identify the third 
partys car registration and took too long to arrange his cars repair. He was also unhappy 
that AXA put his premium up and that he had to pay the £350 policy excess. He felt that this 
was unfair when the accident wasnt his fault.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
AXA had done what they could to get the CCTV footage, but in any event the police had 
seen the footage and said that it didnt confirm the third partys vehicle registration. So he 
thought that AXA had assessed the available evidence fairly and that they hadnt acted 
unreasonably overall.
Mr T didnt agree, and so his case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has explained to Mr T, our role in complaints of this kind is simply to 
investigate whether an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with their policys 
terms and conditions.  
Mr T felt that from when he first reported the incident, AXA didnt deal with the matter 
properly or investigate it quickly enough. He told AXA that there was CCTV footage of the  
car park incident. But AXA didnt get it before it was no longer available from the 
supermarket. Mr T felt that AXA had delayed there and that was why they couldnt identify 
the third party. But Ive read AXAs file from the start and I can see that AXA did ask the 
supermarket for the CCTV footage within a reasonable time after Mr T reported the incident. 
And when it wasnt made available to them, they asked the police, who did have a copy of 
the CCTV footage of the incident. 
The police confirmed to AXA that the quality of the footage wasnt good enough quality  for 
them to make out the third partys vehicle registration and so the police couldnt do anything 
more. I think that AXA were entitled to rely on the polices confirmation. 
But Mr T felt that if AXA had obtained the CCTV footage more quickly, or had told him earlier 
that the police couldnt identify the third-party registration from that footage, that because he 
and his partner both worked for the supermarket company, he could have got a better copy 
of the footage from the supermarket and so would have identified the third partys vehicle 
registration. But I dont think that its fair to assume, as Mr T has assumed, that he would 
definitely have been able to get a better copy of the footage and also that it would have 
conclusively identified the third party. Given that AXA checked with the police, who had 
looked at the CCTV footage and confirmed they couldnt identify the third partys registration, 
I think that AXA did all they reasonably could from outset to try to identify the third party and 
to obtain reasonable evidence of what happened.  
Mr T also said that AXA took too long to repair his car and that this meant he drove it 
damaged for weeks, which inconvenienced him and his family. But AXA said that they 
thought Mr T didnt want to make a claim under his policy right away but wanted to wait to 
see if the third party could be identified first. So that was why they hadnt offered to repair his 
car earlier. I see that AXAs file notes from when he reported the incident confirm this. And 
I dont think it was unreasonable in those circumstances for AXA to think that before claiming 
under his policy Mr T might want clarity about whether the third party could be identified, as 
otherwise there would be a claim on his insurance record but no one to recover against. But 
when Mr T complained and clarified that he did want to go ahead with the car repair, AXA 
did arrange for his car to be repaired, so I dont think there was any unreasonable delay on 
their part there. 
Mr T is also unhappy about having to pay his excess, and about AXA increasing his 
premium. But as the investigator explained, he agreed to pay his excess when he took out 
the policy. A policyholder always has to pay their own policy excess on any claim, regardless 
of who is at fault. They may sometimes try to recover that uninsured loss from the third party 
or their insurer, but that may not always be possible, particularly when, as here, the third 
party and/or their insurer are unknown. In this situation its also normal for an insurer to 
record the claim as fault, even if it wasnt the policyholders fault, as it shows that the 
insurers costs of paying the claim were not recoverable. And any claim on a policy, again 
even if the incident wasnt the policyholders fault, can cause a premium increase at renewal. 
This is because any claim affects the insurers decision as to the risk of insuring the 
policyholder. Thats not something that we become involved in, as its a matter for the 
insurers commercial judgment.
 
I do think that its unfortunate that the third party responsible for the damage to Mr Ts car 
cant be traced, as it means that Mr T is out of pocket through no fault of his own. And I can 
see its been frustrating for him. But I dont think that the situation was AXAs fault either, and 
so I dont require them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021. 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman