DRN-3420876
The complaint
Mr K complains that a car he acquired via a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn 
No.1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr K entered into a 60-month conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn for a used car. The car was around four years old and it had a mileage of 
about 42,000. Under the agreement Mr K paid an initial payment of £753.73 and then 
there followed 59 monthly payments of £663.43.
Mr K says that in February 2021 the car broke down and he had to call out a roadside 
assistance company. The engineer who attended undertook a diagnostic and reported 
that there were fault codes showing relating to the glow plug. They said they suspected 
that the turbocharger was leaking oil and the car would need to be taken to a garage for 
repairs. The mileage at this point was around 46,000.
Mr K says he was able to recover the car and take it to a local garage where he was 
informed the turbocharger needed to be replaced as well as some further faults needing 
repair. The total invoice for works was over £3,600. Mr K paid for the car to be repaired 
and complained to Moneybarn.
Moneybarn sent both the roadside assistance companys report and the repair invoice to 
an independent engineer for them to assess and report on. The independent engineer said 
due to the time passed since inception of the agreement and the number of miles driven, 
the fault wouldnt have been present at the point of supply. They said the fault with the 
turbocharger had arisen through wear and tear.
Moneybarn didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. It said that the evidence didnt indicate the 
car had either been suffering from or developing the fault when supplied to Mr K. It said 
on the evidence it was satisfied that the issue had arisen through wear and tear.
Mr K was unhappy at Moneybarns response and complained to this service. He said the car 
still had faults despite the repairs and hed been unable to drive it since February 2021. Mr K 
said that he had been advised by the repairing garage that a car of this age and mileage 
shouldnt developed this fault and he thought it hadnt been of satisfactory quality. Mr K said 
he either wanted the repairs to be covered by Moneybarn or to be able to return the car and 
unwind the agreement.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. She said on 
the evidence shed see she thought the fault with the turbocharger had arisen through a 
reasonable level of wear and tear.
Mr K disagreed with our investigators view. He said that the car still didnt run despite his 
having paid for a number of repairs. He said hed now been advised the car required 
further extensive repairs. He said he wanted to reject it and cancel the agreement.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along these following lines.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the conditional sale agreement entered into by Mr K is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Moneybarn is also 
the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality 
of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price, and all 
other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the 
quality of the goods.
Here, the car wasn't new being around four years old and with a mileage of around 
42,000. I thought that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would 
have expected there to be issues with maintenance and repair over time since 
components of the car would have been subjected to wear and tear through use. So, 
unlike a new car, there wouldnt be expectation that the car was fault free.
Looking at the evidence I didnt think I could reasonably say that the fault with the 
turbocharger was present or developing at the point of sale taking into account that 
the issue had been described by the independent engineer as being in the early 
stages. However, just because a fault wasnt present when the car was supplied 
doesnt mean that a subsequent issue cant call into question the cars durability. And 
durability is part of whether or not goods are considered to be of satisfactory quality.
Id seen that the car was in Mr Ks possession for around four months and in that 
time, hed driven it for around a further 4,000 miles. I didnt think a reasonable person 
would reasonably expect a car of four years old with a mileage of around 46,000 to 
develop a major issue with its turbocharger. I thought it was reasonable to have 
expected that part to have lasted longer and the car to have been driven further 
before such a major issue arose. A fault with a turbocharger can have a substantial 
impact on a cars engine. Id seen that the independent engineer accepted that the 
additional items that had been repaired at the same time as the turbocharger would 
have arisen from this fault. This included the DPF filter needing to be cleaned and 
issues with NOX sensors etc.
Id also seen that the independent engineer hadnt addressed the issue of durability in 
their report.
I therefore intended to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Id seen that Mr K had originally 
sought reimbursement of the costs of repairing the car but was now seeking to reject 
it. It appeared that despite some expensive repairs the car was still not usable and in 
light of that I thought it would be fair for Mr K to now reject it. A recent quote for the 
required work had been in excess of £10,000 and I thought that might raise an issue of whether this car was economical to repair. I also thought that there had been an 
attempt to repair, but this hadnt been successful so I thought it would be fair and 
reasonable for this agreement to now be cancelled and arrangements made for the car 
to be collected.
Mr K had been unable to drive the car since February 2021. I thought it would be fair for 
him to be reimbursed any payments he had made under the agreement since then. 
However, as he had been able to drive around 4,000 miles before the cars breakdown, 
then I thought it was fair he paid for that usage. I wasnt going to ask Moneybarn to 
refund the initial payment or the monthly payments made up until February 2021.
Id seen Mr K had paid for a number of repairs to the car and I thought that it would 
be fair for Moneybarn to reimburse those amounts. From the invoices produced by Mr 
K, Id seen hed paid £3,655.88 and £92.70 for repairs in May 2021 and £552.04 for 
repairs in June and October 2021. This made a total to be reimbursed of £4,300.62.
I also thought that Mr K had been distressed and inconvenienced by having to deal 
with this faulty car. Hed had to arrange for a number of inspections and repairs and 
not been able to make use of it for several months. I thought compensation of £250 
would be fair to address the impact this has had on him.
Mr K agreed with my provisional view. Moneybarn hasnt asked that I look again at any 
parts of my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party has asked me to look again at my provisional decision, I have still 
reviewed it carefully. I havent changed my view.
Looking at the evidence, although I dont think the fault with the turbocharger was present or 
developing at the point of supply, I still dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when Mr 
K acquired it. Thats because Im satisfied the car wasnt as durable as a reasonable person 
would have reasonably expected. The turbocharger appears to have failed after Mr K had 
the car for around four months and driven about 4,000 miles in it. The car had been around 
four years old and had a mileage of around 42,000 at its point of supply. 
The independent engineer has said that a number of the faults that have required repairs 
would have been likely to have been linked to the issue with the turbocharger though in their 
opinion the engine hadnt suffered catastrophic damage. However, despite the number of 
repairs that have been undertaken the car hasnt been driveable since February 2021 and 
still requires further potentially very expensive repairs. I havent seen any evidence that the 
issues with the car were due to poor repairs being undertaken at any point 
The independent engineers report was based on the invoices for the repairs up until June 
2021, they did not inspect the car. This report didnt address the question of durability when 
setting out that they considered the car was of satisfactory quality at its point of supply. Im 
also unclear as to whether, when they gave their opinion, they were aware the car had not 
yet been fixed. So, its for these reasons Im not accepting the independent engineers 
opinion about the car and Im upholding Mr Ks complaint.Putting things right
Im asking Moneybarn to do the following:
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr K.
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Remove any adverse information about this account from his credit file.
Reimburse Mr K any monthly payments made under the agreement after 
February 2021. Interest is to be added to that amount at the yearly rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr K for the repairs carried out on the car in May, June and 
October 2021 amounting to £4,300.62. Interest is to be added to that sum at 
the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement. 
Pay Mr K £250 as compensation for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused by dealing with the faulty car.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Im asking Moneybarn No.1 
Limited to do the following:
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr K.
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Remove any adverse information about this account from his credit file.
Reimburse Mr K any monthly payments made under the agreement after 
February 2021. Interest is to be added to that amount at the yearly rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr K for the repairs carried out on the car in May, June and 
October 2021 amounting to £4,300.62. Interest is to be added to that sum at 
the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement. 
Pay Mr K £250 as compensation for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience caused by dealing with the faulty car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman