DRN-3822644
The complaint
Mr E complains about the advice Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited (Lighthouse) gave 
to him to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, 
the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Since the date of the advice another firm has acquired Lighthouses business and responded 
to the complaint. But as it was Lighthouse that gave the advice, for ease of reading, I will 
only refer to it within this decision.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Es employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for insolvent DB pension schemes, paying 
compensation to members of eligible schemes for their lifetime. The compensation levels 
are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original schemes benefits for deferred 
pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from the original scheme. Alternatively, 
members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer their benefits to a private pension 
arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Es employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
On 22 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr E with a summary of the transfer value of his 
scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of £595,652.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Mr E was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension. He contacted Lighthouse. Lighthouse completed a fact-find with him 
and an assessment of his attitude to risk. At that time Mr E was 52 years old. He was 
married and had three children Two of whom were under 11 and remained dependent on 
him and his wife. Both he and his wife were working. Mr E was earning around £50,000 a 
year. They owned their own home. They had no mortgage or other debts. Mr E had 
£100,000 in cash savings and a further £150,000 worth of investments. His wife also had 
around £100,000 in cash savings. Mr E had recently begun paying into his employers 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. Together he and his employer were contributing 
around 20% of his salary to that scheme. 
Lighthouse obtained a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) and a cashflow forecast. On 
21 November 2017 it produced a financial planning report. Such documents are often 
referred to as suitability reports, and thats the term Ill use in this decision. Lighthouse 
recommended that Mr E should transfer his DB scheme funds into a named SIPP. It noted 
that achieving the growth rates required (the critical yields) to match the DB schemes 
benefits over the long term would be difficult. But, amongst other things, it said its 
recommendation was based on:
Mr Es desire for early retirement without reductions.
The ability to access funds flexibly. 
Improved death benefits. 
Greater control over his pension investments.
His concerns over the BSPS2 scheme funding.
Mr E accepted Lighthouses recommendation and transferred his DB scheme funds to the 
named SIPP. 
In 2020 the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) required Lighthouse to appoint 
a Skilled Person, who is independent of Lighthouse, to review some of its DB transfer 
advice. In 2021 the Skilled Person reviewed the advice Lighthouse gave to Mr E using the 
FCAs Defined Benefit Advice Assessment Tool (DBAAT)1. The Skilled Person found the 
advice suitable for Mr E.
Mr E didn't agree and complained that Lighthouses advice wasnt suitable for him. 
Lighthouse replied in April 2022. It didn't uphold the complaint. Amongst other things 
Lighthouse noted that Mr E could have met his income needs while remaining in the BSPS2 
or the PPF but said that doing so wouldn't have met Mr Es objectives of flexibility or legacy 
planning. 
Mr E asked us to look into his complaint. One of our Investigators did so. She thought the 
advice was unsuitable as Mr E wasnt likely to improve on the benefits he was already 
guaranteed by transferring. And she didnt think Mr E needed to transfer in order to retire 
early. In October 2022 she recommended Mr Es complaint be upheld. She said Lighthouse 
should calculate if Mr E had suffered a financial loss as a result of its advice and if so pay 
compensation. She added that it should also pay Mr E £300 to address his distress and 
inconvenience caused by him having to reconsider his retirement plans in light of the 
unsuitable advice.
Lighthouse said it didnt agree with our Investigators complaint assessment but said it 
wouldn't be able to reply in the timescale the Investigator set out. The Investigator extended 
the deadline for a reply. Lighthouse didnt provide a further substantive response before that 
deadline expired, so the Investigator referred the case for an Ombudsmans review.
While the case was awaiting an Ombudsmans attention, in February 2023, following an 
update from the Financial Ombudsman Service, Lighthouse said it was in the process of 
finalising its full response. It said that if an Ombudsman did review the matter then following 
our usual practice, it asked for the Ombudsman to share a provisional or draft decision 
before issuing their final decision. Lighthouse sent us an almost identical letter in June 2023. 
1 The FCA introduced the DBAAT in 2019 to help it assess the suitability of DB transfer advice. It later 
published the tool to assist firms to understand the FCAs file review methodology and to allow firms 
to understand whats expected of them.To date Lighthouse hasnt sent us any further correspondence on the matter. So, because 
things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Lighthouse's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Lighthouse 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Es best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our investigator gave.
Why I'm not issuing a provisional decision 
Lighthouse asked that prior to issuing a final decision I issue a provisional decision. Doing so 
would allow both sides to comment on that provisional decision before I came to my final 
determination. 
Lighthouse said issuing a provisional decision is our usual process. Its wrong in that 
respect. That is, it is not our "usual process to issue a provisional decision before issuing a 
final decision. Instead our common practice is, in the first instance, to issue a final decision 
unless the Ombudsman concerned believes a provisional decision is required. I would 
usually only issue a provisional decision where my findings are materially different to the 
Investigators. For example if my conclusions are not the same as the Investigators or my 
reasons for arriving at those conclusions are notably different. Similarly if I think our Investigator made a mistake when recommending redress and my award would be 
significantly different, then I may issue a provisional decision and invite the parties to 
comment on that. In other situations, where I believe it is fair and reasonable to do so, I may 
choose to issue a provisional decision even where my final determination is fundamentally 
the same as the Investigators. However, that choice is at my discretion, I am not under any 
obligation to do so. 
In this case, Ive considered everything submitted by both parties, including Lighthouses file 
with the relevant documents at the time of the advice. Having done so Im upholding the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. And in those circumstances 
I don't find that a provisional decision is required or warranted.
In arriving at that stance I'm aware that Lighthouse has yet to provide us with its finalised 
response to our Investigators complaint assessment. However, she issued her assessment 
over a year ago, She then extended the deadline for Lighthouse to reply. It didnt do so 
before that deadline passed. Lighthouse has since  twice and four months apart  told us it 
was in the process of providing its finalised response. But a further four months has gone by 
and it still hasn't done so. I think its had more than enough time to reply, make any further 
submissions, arguments or observations it wished to. But it hasn't done so. In those 
circumstances I think its fair and reasonable to issue my final decision without delaying 
matters further. 
Would Mr E most likely be better off by transferring? 
Lighthouse obtained a TVAS report which showed the relevant critical yields to match the 
benefits from the DB scheme at ages 60 and 65. Having done so it said that if Mr Es sole 
objective was to match or better the scheme benefits, its advice would be not to transfer and 
to leave Mr Es benefits within the scheme until normal retirement age. 
Lighthouse also noted that, in the long term, matching the critical yields would be "difficult. 
In other words Lighthouse recognised that transferring would most likely mean Mr E would 
be worse off in retirement by doing so. I agree with Lighthouse's analysis here. But I dont 
think it did enough to make it clear to Mr E that he was, most likely, making himself poorer in 
retirement by transferring.
Lighthouse said Mr E required a net income in retirement of £24,000 a year net or £27,125 
gross. It said its cashflow model showed that, by transferring, he could draw down an 
income at that level from age 60 and it would last until he was 98 years old. Its notable that, 
in order to achieve that Lighthouses model showed that Mr E would reduce his income by 
the same amount as his state pension when that became payable at age 67.
Lighthouses model assumes the funds in Mr Es SIPP would produce returns of 4% each 
year every year (before making a deduction for charges). Such a return was not impossible 
for an investor with Mr Es attitude to risk. However, given the volatility of the investment 
markets consistent growth at a level of 4% could be difficult to achieve. 
To put this into context, prior to October 2017 the Financial Ombudsman Service published 
future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer 
was being upheld. Ill explain that a discount rate is a measure of what an investment is likely 
to grow at in the future. They provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have 
been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. In Mr Es case the discount 
rate for retirement at age 60 was 3.3%, somewhat less than the cashflow model's rate of 
4%. So the prospect of a 4% year on year return seems ambitious.Further if there was a sustained period of poor performance or the investments suffered 
losses then there was a very real chance that Mr Es fund would grow at a much slower rate. 
If that happened Mr E could deplete it earlier than Lighthouses model shows. Also 
Lighthouses model isn't stress tested to allow for the possibility of market crashes or poor 
performance. So I don't think it paints a complete picture of the likely future scenarios that 
Mr E could be facing in retirement.
It follows that I don't think Lighthouses cashflow model is likely to be representative of 
Mr Es actual circumstances in retirement.
Further, as I've said above, Lighthouse itself recognised Mr E would be unlikely to match or 
exceed the benefits from his DB scheme by transferring. So, for that reason alone, I dont 
think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in his best interests. Instead I think Lighthouse 
should have advised Mr E to opt into the BSPS2.
Of course matching the DB scheme income isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite 
providing overall lower benefits, as Lighthouse has argued in this case. Ive considered this 
below. 
Flexibility and early retirement 
Lighthouse said transferring allowed Mr E the flexibility to take early retirement at age 60 
without suffering actuarial reductions. But I don't think Mr E needed to transfer out of his DB 
scheme, and put his funds at risk, in order to retire early.
Lighthouse said that Mr E required an income of £27,125 a year (gross) to live off. Its TVAS 
showed that the DB scheme would pay him £23,063 a year (gross) at age 60. So that is 
around £4,000 a year short of his target income level. But the DB fund wouldn't have been 
Mr Es only income stream in retirement.
In April 2017 Mr E had begun paying into his employers DC pension. Together he and his 
employer were paying around £10,000 a year into that. He could have anticipated continuing 
to contribute to that pension for the remainder of his working life. So I think its reasonable to 
assume that, by the time he reached 60, his DC pension should have amassed a sizeable 
pot.
In fact without allowing for Mr E increasing his contributions, his salary growing, or any return 
on the investment, by 60 he could have a pot in the DC pension of over £80,000. So Mr E 
could have accessed those funds in a flexible manner if he felt the need to do so and used 
them to support his early retirement income from the DB scheme if he wanted to. 
Further Mr E had other savings and investments of around £250,000 which he could use to 
support his income until his state pension became payable at age 67. And, at that point, his 
state pension would provide an additional income stream, rather than, as in Lighthouses 
model, him having to reduce his drawdown amounts from the SIPP simply to keep his 
income at the same level.
Alternatively, Mr E could have taken a tax free cash (TFC) lump sum alongside a reduced 
pension from the DB scheme. At age 60 Lighthouses TVAS shows Mr E could have TFC of 
£105,558 and a reduced yearly pension of £15,833. And in that scenario, he could have 
used the TFC sum to support his income until his state pension became payable while 
leaving his DC pension and his savings untouched. 
Also, Ive noted that Lighthouses suitability report says:all benefits from the PPF are payable from 65 only
That implies that the PPF did not allow scheme members to access its benefits until they 
turned 65. But thats not the case. The PPF does allow for early retirement. And, while the 
indexation levels were lower than the BSPS or BSPS2, for those taking early retirement, the 
initial entitlement could be more generous than from the DB scheme. But Lighthouses 
suitability report doesn't set out Mr Es entitlement from the PPF at age 60. So I think the 
suitability report was misleading on this point.
In fact Lighthouses TVAS shows that, at age 60, Mr Es entitlement from the PPF was a full 
pension of £21,703 a year or TFC of £117,727 a year and a reduced pension of £17,686. 
And by adopting the same strategies I've set out above, Mr E could have comfortably 
afforded to retire at age 60 if his pension moved to the PPF. 
So Mr E didn't need to transfer in order to take early retirement, even if he was concerned 
about the prospect of his pension moving to the PPF.
I've noted Lighthouse said transferring would allow Mr E to retire early without his pension 
being subject to actuarial reductions. Its correct to say that, if Mr E chose to take his benefits 
from the DB schemes earlier than the normal retirement age of 65 then those would be paid 
at a reduced level. But that reduction was not a penalty for taking benefits early. The 
actuarial adjustments simply reflect that, by taking a pension earlier, its likely that it will have 
to last longer and so cost the scheme more. As such the scheme actuaries calculate a 
reduction in the yearly pension to allow for the fact that the member will claim the pension  
most likely  for a longer period. Thats not a penalty for taking the pension early, its simply 
a compromise for having the benefits of that pension over a longer period.
Also, while Mr E could access benefits from his SIPP without a penalty, any sums he drew 
down from it would reduce the remaining pension pot and have the knock-on effect of 
reducing the sums available to benefit from any investment growth. So drawing down funds 
from an earlier date would in effect lessen one or all of the following:
The amounts Mr E could take as income later in retirement.
The time frame he would have funds available for.
The remaining funds available as a death benefit.
It follows that Mr E taking money from his SIPP early, particularly if he drew down larger 
sums in early retirement, could have a more significant effect on his income security for his 
remaining retirement years than taking benefits from the DB scheme or the PPF early. Thats 
because the benefits from the DB environment would continue to grow in line with the 
relevant indexation regardless if Mr E took it early. In contrast any returns from the SIPP 
would be dependent on investment performance and would continually reduce by 
withdrawals from it.
Lighthouse also said that transferring would allow Mr E to access his funds flexibly in 
retirement. That is he could choose how much to draw down rather than having a fixed 
income. But I cant see evidence that Mr E had a strong need for flexible access to his 
income throughout retirement. He had no debts and a reasonable reserve of savings. He 
also had his DC pension pot from which he could access funds in a flexible manner if he 
chose. 
That said, its true to say Mr E couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to his DB 
funds as he could from a personal pension. While he could have chosen to take those early, 
if hed wanted to take TFC, then he would have had to take that at the same time as drawing a regular income from his pension. Whereas the SIPP would allow him to draw down funds 
as he saw fit. Its also the case that Mr E could have taken 25% of his entire SIPP fund as 
TFC whereas the DB schemes have stricter rules about how much can be taken as a lump 
sum. 
I can see why a higher lump sum and more choice over how much to take and when might 
have been an attractive prospect to Mr E. But Im not persuaded he had any concrete need 
to take TFC at all or to vary his income throughout retirement. And if Mr E did need flexible 
access to funds, as I've already said, he could have arranged to take those from his DC 
pension or his savings.
It follows that Im satisfied Mr E could have met his flexible income needs in retirement while 
remaining in the DB environment. So, I dont think it was in his best interests to transfer his 
pension just to have flexibility that he had no obvious need for.
Death benefits 
Lighthouse said that, while Mr E could achieve his income goals while remaining in the 
BSPS2 or the PPF, that wouldn't meet his objective for legacy planning. That is the death 
benefits available from transferring his funds to a SIPP. But Lighthouses priority here was to 
advise Mr E about what was best for his retirement. And the existing schemes offered death 
benefits, by way of spouses and dependents pensions, that couldve been valuable to his 
family in the event of his death.
While I have little doubt the CETV figure would have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be different. As 
well as being dependent on investment performance, as I've said above, it would have also 
been reduced by any income Mr E drew from it in his lifetime. So it may not have provided 
the legacy that Mr E might have thought it would. And there may not have been much left in 
his SIPP if he lived a long life, the investments performed poorly, or if he took large sums 
from the fund early in his retirement.
Further, I'm aware that Mr E had death in service cover from his employer. So that would 
have paid a lump sum in the event he died while still working for the same employer. But, if 
he wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend on his employment, 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, then life 
insurance may have met his needs.
Ive noted that Lighthouse looked into the cost of life insurance. Its suitability report said the 
premiums for Mr E would be around £521 a month. So it didnt think that was viable on 
grounds of cost. But I dont think Lighthouse presented this option in a balanced way. 
Lighthouse based the quote on the full transfer value of Mr Es DB scheme. In other words it 
essentially assumed hed require a life policy to pay the same as his CETV (before drawing 
down any sums from it). But unless he died before he took retirement, that figure wouldn't be 
realistic.
Ultimately, Mr E wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his family, which could 
be a lot less than his CETV depending on how much he drew from it and the investment 
performance. So a fairer manner in which to provide Mr E with realistic life insurance options 
would have been for Lighthouse to ask him how much he would ideally like to leave as a 
legacy, and how much he could afford to contribute. Insurance on this basis was likely to be 
a lot cheaper to provide and would have enabled him to leave a legacy without risking his 
retirement income.Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mr E. And ultimately Lighthouse should not have 
encouraged Mr E to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Control and concerns about the BSPS2
Lighthouse also said transferring would allow Mr E to have control over how his funds were 
invested. But I think Lighthouse has overstated Mr Es desire for control. Mr E did have some 
experience and knowledge of the investment markets. However, in accepting Lighthouses 
recommendation he also agreed to pay an adviser a proportion of his funds value for 
ongoing financial advice. In other words his adviser would essentially make 
recommendations for him, rather than Mr E actively managing  that is taking control of  his 
investments. So, I dont think this was a genuine objective for Mr E  it was simply a 
consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Mr E may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his pension 
and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was Lighthouses role to objectively address 
those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the BSPS2 being 
established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr E with guaranteed income and the 
option of early retirement. Mr E was unlikely to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, 
entering the PPF was not as concerning as he might have thought, and I dont think any 
concerns he held about this meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Es best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a SIPP. And I also havent seen anything to persuade 
me that Mr E wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB scheme. 
So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Lighthouse gave to Mr E was 
unsuitable for him.
The Skilled Persons review 
For completeness Ill add that Lighthouse told us that the Skilled Person had completed the 
FCAs DBAAT and found Lighthouses advice suitable. Lighthouse hasn't shown us the 
Skilled Persons completed DBAAT. But, I don't need to see it in order to come to my 
conclusions fairly and reasonably. I'm aware of the questions the DBAAT poses, and having 
considered those I couldnt find that the advice was suitable for the reasons given above, 
particularly in regard to whether accessing benefits flexibly or maximising death benefits was 
in Mr Es best interests. 
In any event, in every complaint I look at the matter independently. So I'm not bound by what 
the Skilled Person decided. Instead, as Ive set out earlier my role is to consider information 
from both parties while having regard to relevant law and regulations, including the FCAs 
Principles, rules and guidance as well as good industry practice. And having done so Ive 
reached a different outcome to the Skilled Person for the reasons set out above. 
It follows that I remain satisfied that Lighthouses advice to transfer out of the DB scheme 
was not suitable for Mr E, regardless of the Skilled Persons conclusions. What should Lighthouse have recommended?
I think Lighthouse should have advised Mr E to opt to join the BSPS2. Thats because the 
annual indexation in the BSPS2 was higher than in the PPF. Mr E would also have retained 
the option of transferring out of the BSPS2 at a time nearer to his chosen retirement age if 
that was something he still wanted to do at that time. The PPF didnt have that option. 
So, I think Lighthouse should compensate Mr E for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Lighthouse to put Mr E, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr E would most 
likely have remained in the DB scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if Lighthouse has given 
suitable advice. 
Lighthouse must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Lighthouse should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr E and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what 
Lighthouse based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr E has not yet retired, and, as far as I'm aware, has no concrete plans to do so 
at present. So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as 
per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr E 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Lighthouse should:
calculate and offer Mr E redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr E before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his SIPP
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr E receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr E accepts Lighthouses offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr E for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Es end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr E as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Lighthouse may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Es likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Also, as I think that learning that he might have unnecessarily put his pension funds at risk 
was a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr E, I think Lighthouse should also pay him 
£300 to address that.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited to pay Mr E the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited pays Mr E the balance.
If Mr E accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr E can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman