DRN-4124112
The complaint
Mr J complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax havent refunded him a direct debit 
he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Mr J says he intentionally paid the merchant the odd transaction in 2014 and 2015 and then 
he cancelled the services they were providing to him. But, in 2016 a direct debit (DD) got set 
up without his knowledge. In April 2022 he contacted Halifax to ask if they could refund the 
transactions since 2016 as hed only just become aware of them. He says they incorrectly 
told him they had evidence hed signed for it, and he asked them to do a direct debit 
indemnity (DDI) claim  but they refused saying itd been too long.
Halifax agreed Mr J had been incorrectly told they had a signed mandate for the DD  and to 
say sorry for this they paid him £20. For the DDI though, they said they hadnt done anything 
wrong. They said they reviewed the information given and turned down the DDI. They added 
theyd also considered the length of time large monthly direct debits had been debiting his 
account and thought it reasonable hed have noticed them earlier. They said its also clear 
the payments were set up using his personal and account details so its likely the DD was 
set up with his knowledge. They suggested Mr J contact the merchant directly.
Mr J tried that, but didnt get anywhere, so he asked us to look into things.
One of our Investigators ultimately didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. She said the merchant 
had a lot of Mr Js personal details  and thought it unlikely any DDI claim would be 
successful. So, she felt Halifax didnt need to do anything more.
Mr J didnt accept that, he said hed contacted the merchants who had no information from 
him  so how can Halifax say they have lots of his personal details. Because of that, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
Before formally considering this case, I could see our Investigator and Halifax had discussed 
processing the DDI  without refunding Mr J the funds  in an effort to see what the 
merchant came back with. The reason for this was it didnt really add up that the merchant 
was taking money from Mr Js account but was telling him they didnt have any details for 
him.
When reviewing the responses from the merchant it seemed quite dismissive. So, we asked 
Halifax to process the DDI without refunding Mr J (which they told us they could) with the 
express intention of finding out what the merchant replied with. The expectation at that time 
was that the merchants reply would help us understanding whether the direct debits should 
be refunded or not.
Halifax told us on 20 March 2023 theyd processed the DDI, and they refunded the amounts 
from the DDI at the same time to Mr J directly. And, after further chasing from our 
Investigator, told us on 17 April 2023 the reason code they used meant they wouldnt hear 
back from the merchant.
We asked Mr J if he wanted to accept this in resolution of his complaint. He said no, he 
thought Halifax should have put the DDI through earlier, so has asked for some 
compensation. Because of that, Im now looking to formally decide this case.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr J initially raised these concerns, Halifax said they thought a DDI claim would fail, 
because the merchant had to have acquired a lot of Mr Js details to be able to put the direct 
debit through.
Halifaxs justification included the length of time the matter had been ongoing for as well  
the payments were taken between 2016 and 2020. And, Mr J wasnt able to demonstrate the 
merchant had made an error by taking the payment  either with his explanations, or through 
his efforts contacting the merchant.
So, I dont think I can fairly say Halifax acted unfairly initially when turning down Mr Js DDI 
claim.
I can though see Mr Js frustration about Halifax refunding the money now, and his point that 
they should have done so earlier  but I dont think thats something I can agree with.
Halifax offered to put through his DDI claim to see what happened, without refunding the 
money, once we got involved. This doesnt mean they got it wrong initially and, as Ive said, I 
dont think they did.
I do think since then theyve not handled things correctly. In looking back at the 
communication between our service and Halifax, I think its sufficiently clear that we wanted 
Halifax to put the claim through to see what happened. Halifax had said they didnt think they 
should refund Mr J at this stage, and we agreed to that. And the purpose of doing the refund 
was to see what the merchant then told Halifax to help decide whether the DDI claim should 
be successful or not.
Instead, Halifax have put the claim through using a code where theyve now told us no reply 
will be received, and theyve refunded Mr J even though they initially didnt plan to.
These actions were unhelpful given this isnt what we discussed. That said, it has led to Mr J 
being refunded for his DDI like he wanted.
So, Ive found Halifax acted fairly when turning down the DDI claim. To date, no evidence 
Mr J has been able to provide, or that we could get, have shown this was the wrong 
decision. Any reply from the merchant to Halifax may have shown this. But in the end Mr J 
has been refunded this money anyway. Because of that, I dont currently think itd be fair or 
appropriate to require Halifax to make a compensation payment. In effect, I think they have 
made an error, but that error has led to Mr J getting his DDI claim paid when I dont have 
enough evidence to fairly say it should have been.I can see our Investigator made Mr J aware of this  but just for completeness  if the 
merchant does believe the money is legitimately owed then they can contact Mr J and ask 
for him to repay the funds.
Replies to my provisional decision
Mr J replied and, in summary, said the DDI should have repaid the money when he first 
made the claim. 
Halifax didnt reply by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do take Mr Js point, that generally if a DDI is put through then the money would be 
automatically refunded at that point. But I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax to have 
assessed Mr Js claim and turned it down  as Ive explained above.
The reason Mr J was refunded the DDI claim is because Halifax told us they could put it 
through without refunding Mr J, but then put it through and did refund him. Based on the 
evidence currently available to me, Im not satisfied Mr J was entitled to the refund. But, as 
thats now happened, I remain of the opinion thats a fair way for the matter to be resolved.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman