DRN-2174908
The complaint
Miss D complains that Canada Square Operations Limited (then trading as Egg) mis-sold 
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card in January 2001.
What happened
The policy was added to Miss Ds credit card account when she applied for the card online 
via the Egg website.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
Miss D told us that she took out PPI as she felt shed have a better chance of getting the 
card she was applying for. She says the PPI wasnt properly explained and it wasnt 
something she needed as she had a secure job with good benefits, as well as other 
insurance in place, plus she was living at home and would have been supported if needed. 
She also told us that shes had several other PPI claims found in her favour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
I think Egg made Miss D aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. On the 
online application form Miss D completed, she had to select the Yes option to include PPI. 
There was an option to say No. So I think shed have known at the time that she couldve 
declined PPI if she hadnt wanted it. 
And she wouldve had to choose one of those options in order for her application to proceed. 
Its completely understandable that she mightve forgotten some of these details so long 
after the event. But, on balance, I find that Miss D knew she had a choice about protecting 
her card repayments and she wanted to do so at the time. 
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Miss D so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
Its possible some of the information Egg gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, next to where Miss D was asked to decide about the PPI, the cover 
was broadly described, the cost was set out and there was information about the benefits 
PPI offered. 
I think Miss D could have benefitted from having the policy. 
Miss D was eligible for the policy. 
Ive taken into account that Miss D had 6 months full sick pay through work. The policy 
wouldve paid out, in full, for up to 12 months on top of her sick pay. So PPI gave her better 
protection in the event that she was too ill to work. Bearing in mind that Miss D mightve also 
had some additional costs if she was too unwell to go back to work or disabled, I think this 
couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
The policy wouldve also protected Miss Ds credit card repayments if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.
There can be no guarantee that any job will always be secure. Being entitled to redundancy 
benefits wouldnt have helped Miss D if she was off work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed lost her job, giving her some 
additional financial security in those circumstances.
And, although she had critical illness cover set up, PPI provided a different sort of cover and 
paid out in different circumstances.
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Having PPI meant Miss D could be sure shed be able to more than cover her Egg card 
monthly repayments whatever her circumstances. And it would've cleared her credit card 
balance in full if shed claimed for the full 12 months. 
Its possible some of the information Egg gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it doesnt look as if Miss D was affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover. So I dont think having more information about these policy terms 
wouldve put her off taking out the PPI. 
I think, when it was trading as Egg, Canada Square Operations Limited couldve explained 
the policy cost better than it did. But, the policy seems to have been affordable for Miss D 
when she took it out. PPI provided Miss D with the protection broadly described on the 
website which shed indicated she was willing to pay for. And, looked at overall, given the 
benefits PPI offered Miss D, I think it unlikely she wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided. 
On balance I think shed still have taken out the policy. 
This means Canada Square Operations Limited doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Miss D.
But Canada Square Operations Limited has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss D 
because: 
Canada Square Operations Limited got a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss D about that. Because 
Canada Square Operations Limited didnt tell Miss D, that was unfair. To put that right, Canada Square Operations Limited has paid back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is 
fair in this case.
Ive also taken into account what Miss D said about the way other PPI cases have been 
dealt with. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the 
circumstances that apply in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss D.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Miss D any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman