DRN-4257697
The complaint
Mr W complains that Unum Ltd has turned down an incapacity claim he made on a group 
income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive set out a summary of 
what I think are the key events.
Mr W is insured under his employers group income protection insurance policy. The policy 
provides cover for Mr Ws own occupation should he become incapacitated due to sickness 
or accident.
In February 2020, Mr W was signed-off from work, suffering from severe fatigue and other 
symptoms which could indicate myalgic encephalomyelitis/ chronic fatigue syndrome 
(ME/CFS). His employer made an incapacity claim on the insurance policy.
Mr Ws deferred period ended in August 2020. Unum assessed the available medical 
evidence and turned down Mr Ws claim. It didnt think there was enough evidence to show 
that Mr W had met the contractual definition of incapacity throughout the deferred period and 
afterwards.
In January 2021, Mr W was formally diagnosed with ME/CFS and was ultimately referred to 
an ME/CFS service. He made a complaint to us about Unums decision to turn down his 
claim.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. While he 
acknowledged Mr W hadnt received a formal diagnosis of ME/CFS before the end of the 
deferred period; he felt that the diagnosis letter in January 2021 contextualised Mr Ws 
condition throughout the deferred period. So he was satisfied that Mr W had shown he met 
the definition of incapacity throughout the deferred period and beyond.
Unum accepted the investigators recommendations. It agreed to pay Mr W incapacity 
benefit for a period he had been signed-off work. However, it noted that Mr W had returned 
to full-time hours a short time later and hadnt been signed-off again until February 2021. So 
it said it would consider a linked incapacity claim starting in from that point. This was 
accepted by Mr W and the complaint was closed.
As it had agreed, Unum considered a linked claim beginning in February 2021. Having 
considered the available medical evidence, it didnt think there was enough to show that Mr
W had met the policy definition of incapacity. Thats because it didnt think the medical 
records indicated that Mr W had been incapacitated during that period and also because it 
didnt think his reported social and exercise activities matched his inability to work full-time 
hours.
Mr W was unhappy with Unums decision on his linked claim and so he made a new 
complaint to us.
The investigator recommended that Unum should accept and pay Mr Ws linked claim on a 
proportionate basis, in line with the reduced hours hed worked. He acknowledged that some 
of the medical evidence was thin. But he noted that Unum had accepted that Mr W had been 
incapacitated in line with the policy during the deferred period which had applied to the first 
claim. And he thought the medical evidence which was available did again contextualise Mr 
Ws earlier reported symptoms. Unum had accepted it was likely that Mr W had suffered 
flare-ups of his condition during this period.
And the investigator also felt that had Unum accepted the earlier claim, Mr W and his 
employer would have continued to seek occupational health assessments to provide 
supporting evidence of his continued incapacity. But Unum had told Mr Ws employer  after 
it declined the first claim - that its decision was final. This meant that Mr W had self-managed 
his symptoms and work to his capability. The investigator thought though that an 
occupational health specialist wouldve considered Mr W was unable to work full-time hours.
Finally, the investigator accepted that Mr W did undertake regular exercise and social 
activities. But he didnt think there was anything in the medical evidence that suggested his 
ability to carry out those activities meant that he was fit for full-time work.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 June 2023 which explained the reasons why I thought 
Unum should only accept and pay Mr Ws claim for a short period between March and May 
2021. I said:
Its important I explain the parameters of this decision. I will only be considering whether it 
was fair for Unum to turn down Mr Ws linked claim  his complaint about its decision to turn 
down the first claim has been closed and settled.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the insurance contract and the available medical evidence, to decide whether I 
think Unum treated Mr W fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Ws 
employers contract with Unum. Mr W has made a linked claim for incapacity. Unum has 
defined what it means by incapacity in the policy terms, which state:
A member is incapacitated if they are unable to perform the material and substantial duties 
of their insured occupation because of illness or injury.
This means that in order for Unum to pay Mr W benefit, it needs to be satisfied that Mr W 
was prevented from carrying out the duties of his insured role due to his illness. If Mr W was 
incapacitated from working full-time, Unum could consider paying Mr W proportionate benefit 
for any hours he did work.
In this case, its common ground that Unum ultimately accepted that Mr W had been 
incapacitated in 2020 and it paid benefit for a short period of time. However, its also agreed 
that Mr W appeared to return to work on a full-time basis following the end of that period, 
which meant that the claim ended. When Mr W became unwell again, in early 2021, Unum 
agreed to consider a linked claim  which meant that there would be no need for Mr W to 
wait for the expiry of the deferred period before benefit may be due. But Unum was still 
entitled to be satisfied that Mr W was incapacitated, in line with the policy terms, from 
working full-time in his insured occupation. And based on the evidence Unum reviewed, it 
wasnt persuaded that Mr W had been incapacitated from working on a full-time basis. SoIve looked closely at all of the available evidence. I can see that on Mr Ws claim form, he 
stated that from 1 February 2021, his condition had begun to decline again, which led to a 
severe relapse in March 2021. Hed been unable to work for two months. Since then, he said 
his condition had gradually improved and hed been able to return to work on a part-time 
basis.
Next, Ive looked closely at the medical evidence, which spans the relevant time. This 
includes Mr Ws GP records and notes from his treating practitioners. Im not a medical 
expert, so when making my decision, I must necessarily base my decision on the evidence 
provided by medical experts who are specialists in their field.
Following an entry in January 2021 (which has no details alongside the date), the next GP 
entry is dated 23 March 2021 and says that Mr W had a flare-up of ME, that hed been in 
bed for four-five days, that he was not able to work, thinks overdid it at work, therapist 
suggests he needs to work reduced hours. A fit note was issued following this appointment, 
stating that Mr W wasnt fit for work, which was backdated to 18 March 2021.
I can see that fit notes stating that Mr W was not fit for work were emailed to him in April and 
May 2021. On 14 May 2021, Mr W was issued with a fit note stating that he was fit to work 
on a phased basis.
Mr W saw a psychiatrist in May 2021. While the psychiatrist referred to Mr Ws reported CFS 
symptoms, they did not diagnose him with a psychiatric condition and nor did they find that 
Mr W was unfit for work  either full or part-time. In June 2021, Mr W spoke with a member 
of the CFS service. Their notes say that Mr W said he had a very difficult time during 
February through to May with his ME symptoms and that he had to take time off work. He 
would be very grateful for a short letter addressed to him, that he could show his employers 
insurers confirming that his ME had flared up.
The notes do not suggest that the clinician Mr W spoke with recommended that he wasnt fit 
to work on a full or part-time basis.
In July 2021, Mr W spoke with the CFS service again. The notes reflect that Mr W was 
working 10 hours per week from home. The notes say that he was cycling most days. 
Again, there appears to be no indication that the CFS service felt that Mr W should only work 
part-time  although they did refer to the fact that Mr W aimed to return to work 25 hours per 
week by the end of the year.
Subsequently, in August 2021, the CFS service noted that Mr W had attended two social 
occasions and had coped well from an energy point of view. The notes say that he denied 
experiencing post-exertional malaise. They noted that Mr W had experienced a general 
levelling-out of symptoms and that he continued to try and increase cycling. The notes state 
that Mr W found his workplace canteen the most difficult part of his day, due to the noise and 
stimulus. Mr W was planning to try a longer cycle ride, considering around 40 miles per day, 
each day, over a weekend.
In November 2021, the CFS service noted that Mr W described ups and downs in his 
symptoms. He continued to work 15 hours per week, but is fearful of increasing any further 
than this, as he feels this is currently a sustainable level.
And in February 2022, Mr W was discharged from the CFS service, In their notes, the 
clinician stated that Mr W had a ski trip planned for the end of that month and had been 
walking over the weekend  for 14km and 5km respectively, without experiencing post 
exertional malaise. Mr W reported that he was feeling very much better.Unums clinicians reviewed the available evidence, including the available medical 
evidence. Ive set out one of the clinicians findings as follows:
Prior to the index Med3 issued on 23/3/21 backdated from 18/3/21, there is no clearly & 
contemporaneously documented medical basis for his absence. Whereas the reporting of a 
flare-up of his CFS in March 2021 was potentially credible, his clinical and functional 
situation in April and May 2021 was not entirely clearThere was further void in the medical 
evidence and functional situation until mid-August 2021. The reported level of function in 
August 2021 together with the contemporaneously documented evidence of a significant 
clinical and functional improvement in February 2022 are not in keeping with evidence of a 
sustained and functional loss that would have resulted into ongoing limited engagement in 
relation to a sedentary function.
Ive weighed-up the available evidence very carefully. I appreciate that patients suffering 
from ME/CFS can and do suffer from flare-ups. I appreciate too that Unum did accept that 
Mr W had previously been incapacitated by his illness.
However, based on the totality of the evidence before me, I dont think it was unfair for Unum 
to conclude that there simply isnt enough contemporaneous medical evidence to 
demonstrate that Mr W was incapacitated from carrying out his role on a full-time basis for 
the duration of his claim. In my view though, there is sufficient medical evidence to indicate 
that Mr W had suffered a serious flare-up of his condition between 18 March and 14 May 
2021 (the date a medical certificate was issued stating that Mr W may be fit for work). So I 
dont think it was fair for Unum to turn down Mr Ws claim for this period.
But the medical evidence does have large gaps. I dont think the short period Mr W was 
signed-off between March and May 2021 is enough to show that Mr W was suffering from 
incapacity in line with the policy terms for a sustained period. Theres no medical evidence to 
indicate why Mr W wasnt working full-time in February 2021 and Mr W sought medical 
advice quite late in the month of March 2021. I appreciate that Mr W was under the care of 
the CFS service  but its notes of sessions with Mr W dont indicate that its clinicians 
recommended that Mr W should work part-time hours only. This appears to have been self- 
management on Mr Ws part. And by Mr Ws account, he had significantly improved by the 
time he was discharged from the CFS service.
So on that basis, while I think Unum must pay Mr Ws claim between 18 March and 14 May 
2021, together with interest, I currently find it was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr W 
hasnt shown he was incapacitated for the full duration of his claim. So overall, despite my 
natural sympathy with Mr Ws position, I currently only plan to direct Unum to pay Mr W 
incapacity benefit for a short period of time.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Unum accepted my provisional findings.
Mr W confirmed hed received my provisional decision, but he didnt provide any additional 
evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided me with any substantive additional evidence or comments, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part.
I direct Unum Ltd to pay Mr Ws incapacity claim, in line with the policy terms and conditions, 
for the period 18 March until 14 May 2021 only. It must also add interest to the settlement at 
an annual rate of 8% simple from the date each benefit payment was due until the date of 
settlement.
If Unum considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman