DRN-1473690
 
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Axa France AIRD mis-sold her a store card PPI (payment 
protection insurance) policy.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf of the policy insurer. I cant consider 
this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place 
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or was otherwise covered by our 
jurisdiction. 
But the seller was acting as the insurers agent. Mrs K will notice that her complaint was 
originally set up against another business who were the original insurer. However that 
insurer has now transferred its business to AXA, so it has taken responsibility for the sale. 
To keep things simple, Ill just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
 Mrs K took out the PPI at the same time as applying for a store card whilst in a shop in 
1995.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA no longer has any documentation from the sale, which is not surprising given how long 
ago it took place. But it does make the complaint more difficult to decide. In reaching my 
decision I have looked at the information that we do have as well as what I consider is most 
likely to have happened.
Mrs K says the PPI was added to the account without her knowledge. From what we know of 
these store card application forms from the time, they contained a separate section for PPI 
and an applicant had to tick a box to elect to have the policy. The sale happened a long time 
ago and Mrs K herself says that she doesnt remember any specific details. On balance, I 
think that Mrs K probably decided to take out the PPI, knowing that she didnt have to, even 
if she no longer remembers doing so.AXA didnt advise Mrs K to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her needs. 
But it did need to provide her with enough information for her to make an informed choice 
about whether or not the policy was right for her.
Mrs K cant remember what sick pay she would have been entitled to in 1995. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mrs K would 
have received full pay for. Mrs K said she had an ISA in 1997 that had some savings in it, 
but that was two years after she had taken out the PPI. Overall I think that Mrs K had a need 
for the policy and could have benefitted from it if she had been unable to work due to illness 
or if shed lost her job.
Its possible that AXA could have provided more information about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs K wasnt affected by any of those things. As I 
think that Mrs K had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that better 
information would have caused her to change her mind. So Mrs K isnt any worse off as a 
result of anything AXA may have done wrong. So there is nothing that AXA needs to do to 
put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman