DRN-3845084
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about letters they received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
saying that premiums hadnt been paid on their life insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all here. 
Its agreed that Aviva made an error and has paid £75 compensation for what happened. 
And Mr and Mrs P are looking for a higher level of compensation. 
Since the facts are not in dispute, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P have provided quite a bit of information about their complaint and its clear to 
me how strongly they feel about what happened. I want to assure them that I have read and 
considered everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive 
summarised somethings which reflects the informal nature of our service. However Im 
satisfied I understand the crux of the issue which is that Mr and Mrs P are asking for more 
compensation because of what happened.  
Aviva have paid Mr and Mrs P £75 for what happened and looking at everything I think that 
is a fair way of putting things right.
This issue started when Mr and Mrs P sent their premium to Aviva by standing order. 
Unfortunately the standing order didnt have the policy reference number so it wasnt 
allocated correctly. This meant that Mr and Mrs P received letters for several months saying 
their policy was in arrears.
Aviva admit that they couldve located the missing premium earlier and so stopped some of 
the letters going out. For this delay they have paid £75. I think its important to say that the 
compensation is for the delay in finding the missing payment rather than the original issue 
which was caused by the standing order not having the policy reference number.
Receiving these letters was obviously upsetting for Mr and Mrs P and the standing order was 
soon corrected to show the policy reference and the payments were allocated correctly. 
Mr and Mrs P had a previous issue with an unallocated payment in 2016 which was caused 
by a different problem. Back then Aviva paid compensation of £100. When dealing with our 
Investigator Mr and Mrs P said: If they compensated me with 100 pounds, why have they 
made a discount of 25 pounds 6 years later?
My role isnt to punish a business for mistakes. Its to look at what happened and come to 
what I think is a fair and reasonable resolution. A business can choose to pay whatever level 
of compensation they wish. So just because a higher level of compensation was paid directly 
by a business previously doesnt mean I have to agree to that again. Its the particular 
circumstances of this complaint that I need to consider.
Mr and Mrs P were put to some trouble providing proof that the missing payment had been 
made. And it must have been upsetting to receive the letters knowing that the payment had 
been made. Mr and Mrs P have confirmed there was no financial loss because of what 
happened. And I know they had to contact Aviva several times to get things sorted out.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied the £75 already paid to 
Mr and Mrs P is a fair and reasonable way of settling the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman