DRN-2926931
The complaint
Ms J complains Allianz Insurance Plc acted unfairly by declining to meet a claim against her 
pet insurance in full. 
Ms J wants the claim to be met in full. 
What happened
Ms J raised a claim for her dog whod been having continuous treatment for a condition 
which started February 2020. The claim was for treatment on 30 June and 8 July 2020. 
Allianz considered the claim, but only agreed to cover it in part. They said Ms J had 
contacted them by phone in June 2020 to request that this policy and another didnt renew. 
And as the policy didnt renew on 6 July 2020, Allianz said the claim for treatment on 8 July 
2020 wasnt covered by the policy. Though they covered the treatment which occurred 
during the policy period. 
Ms J didnt think this was fair. She said the treatment was continuous for the same condition 
which occurred during the policy period, and the policy covered this. She also provided a 
letter from the treating vet to support this. 
Ms J was also unhappy with the level of service received from Allianz. Namely, they took 
several weeks to respond to her, and she had to chase this. So, she raised a complaint. 
Allianz maintained their decision on the claim and referred to the policy terms. Though they 
awarded Ms J £25 compensation for the service issues. Ms J remained unhappy and 
brought the complaint to this service. She also said the covid-19 pandemic delayed 
treatment meaning it didnt take place until after the policy period ended. 
An investigator here considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He felt 
Allianz applied the policy terms fairly. Ms J didnt agree so the case was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms J held a 12-month policy which means cover is provided between the policy start and 
end date. My starting point here is the policy terms, which say: 
21. Cover following the cancellation of a policy 
If your policy is cancelled or comes to an end for any reason, all cover for your pet 
will stop on the date the policy is cancelled/ends and no further claims will be paid. 
This means any claim for treatment carried out after the policy ends isnt covered. From the 
clinical notes, I can see treatment took place on 30 June and 8 July 2020. The 30 June 2020 
treatment was covered by the policy, but Ms J also raised a claim to be paid for treatment 
which occurred on 8 July 2020  after the policy had ended. 
There is a dispute around the reasons why Ms J decided not to continue with the policy and 
renew it. But I dont think this has an impact on the claim outcome. Ive listened to the June 
2020 call, and I note Ms J asked for the policy (and another) not to renew and the price of 
the premium was mentioned as a factor. Ms J said her reason for not renewing the policy 
was because Allianz were unable to insure her third dog. Regardless of what decision was 
taken not to renew the policy, ultimately the policy didnt renew meaning cover wasnt in 
place when the 8 July 2020 treatment took place. So, I think Allianz applied the above term 
fairly and reasonably in this case. 
I accept based on the treating vets letter the treatment was continuous. Its clear the 
condition was present since February 2020 from the clinical notes. So, I think it was fair for 
Allianz to cover the claim up to the point the policy ended. But as above, once the policy 
period ends, cover isnt in place. So, whilst I agree its the same condition, Ms J made a 
claim for treatment which occurred after the policy had ended. 
Ms J also raised concerns about the impact the covid-19 pandemic had on the treatment 
date. She said the 8 July 2020 appointment was arranged in line with restrictions, so the 
treatment date was outside her control and fell outside the policy period. 
Ive gone onto consider this. And to do so, I listened to the call which took place between Ms 
J and Allianz in November 2020. During this call, Ms J explained the treatment was ongoing 
between 30 June and 8 July 2020 because the treating vet had to consider treatment which 
cannot take place all in one day  which I accept. The clinical notes also suggest this to be 
the case. There wasnt any mention during the call of delays caused by the covid-19 
pandemic. 
On balance, based on the information available to me, I havent been persuaded the time 
between the 30 June and 8 July 2020 treatment was a result of the covid-19 pandemic. 
Rather, the 8 July 2020 appointment was booked following the 30 June 2020 treatment as 
required. I say this because of the clinical notes Ive seen. 
I accept there were service issues and things could have been handled better. For example, 
Ms J had to chase up a response to information she provided Allianz having not received an 
update for several weeks. Allianz accepted there were service issues and compensated Ms 
J £25 for this. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Overall, I havent been persuaded based on the evidence available Allianz acted unfairly by 
declining to cover the 8 July 2020 treatment. I find that they applied the policy terms fairly, so 
I dont require them to do anything. 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Ms J. But my decision ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve her dispute with Allianz  can do for her. 
My final decision
I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Liam HickeyOmbudsman