DRN-3560644
The complaint
Mr O complains that Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked his Pockit account and denied 
him access to the funds in the account. Hed like the funds returned to him.
The Pockit account is a pre-paid payment card which at the time of Mr Os complaint was 
administered by Wirecard Card Solutions Limited.
What happened
Mr O had a Pockit account. In November 2020 the account was blocked, and a review 
started. In January 2021 they asked him for some identification documents, and some 
further information on his use of the account. He said he used it for the proceeds from 
buying and selling cars, and he couldnt supply proof of address. He asked to close the 
account as it wasnt suitable for his means. Pockit wrote to him to say they would be closing 
the account immediately, because hed used the account for business purposes.
Mr O asked for the balance on the account to be returned to him. But Pockit returned the 
funds to the senders in July 2021. However, Mr O has said the senders havent received the 
funds, so he cant recover them.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She explained that Pockit have a right 
to block and review accounts and ask for further information. She thought theyd been fair in 
doing so. She said she thought Pockit had delayed the investigation, and it had taken much 
longer than shed expect. But as Mr O hadnt provided the information requested, she didnt 
think the delays had any effect.
She also felt that Mr O hadnt been able to provide anything to show that he had sold any 
cars or was entitled to any of the funds in the account. On that basis she felt Pockit were 
reasonable in returning the funds to the sender. But she said should supply details of where 
the funds were returned to. Mr O received some information from Pockit but came back to 
our investigator to say the senders hadnt received the funds. He also supplied some further 
information he said was from the senders. But our investigator didnt think this changed 
anything, and still didnt think Mr O had shown his entitlement to the funds. 
Mr O still wanted the funds returned to him. As no agreement could be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Pockit has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take certain 
actions in order to meet these obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict 
customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their review. And ask a 
customer for information about certain transactions, provide identification documents and 
explain how an account is being used. 
Having looked at the information Pockit relied upon, Im satisfied that they were complying 
with their legal and regulatory obligations when they blocked Mr Os account and asked him 
for information. Im also satisfied that Pockit were justified in restricting Mr Os account 
during this time given theyd explained to him they would be restricting the account until hed 
provided the information that it had asked for. So, I cant say Pockit did anything wrong when 
it decided to block and review Mr Os account.
But Pockit took too long to ask Mr O for information about the account. Reviews and checks 
on an account should be done within a reasonable timeframe, and its clear that making 
Mr O wait two months before asking for his identification information is an unreasonable 
amount of time. But this is tempered by the fact that Mr O did not supply this information to 
Pockit anyway. So, Im not satisfied these delays had any impact on Mr O, such that Pockit 
would need to pay compensation.
As Mr O says he was using the account for business purposes, which is against the account 
terms, Im satisfied that Pockit were within their rights to close the account. And Mr O also 
commented that the account didnt suit his needs and asked for it to be closed. So, Pockits 
actions in closing the account were reasonable.
Turning to the funds in the account, Mr O hasnt been able to provide anything to either 
Pockit or this service that shows his entitlement to them. The account seems to have been 
funded by transfers into the account, rather than regular wages. If they were for the sale of 
cars, as Mr O has said, then the amounts look unusually low. I would expect there to be 
some kind of paperwork available for the sale of a car. But this hasnt been provided.
Mr O has provided text messages he says are between him and the senders of the funds. 
But nothing in what hes sent to our service verifies why this money was sent to it, or why it 
belongs to him. I dont find that these messages support his story. Overall, Ive seen nothing 
that satisfies me Mr O was entitled to these funds. 
On that basis, I dont think its unreasonable that Pockit remove the funds and return them to 
the senders. Mr O has said the senders havent received the funds. Since Im not convinced 
Mr O was entitled to these funds, this wouldnt amount to a loss to him. This would be a 
matter for the senders to raise with their own banks.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied Pockit have been reasonable in blocking and then closing 
Mr Os account; and returning the funds to source. I dont consider the delays to have had an 
impact on Mr O, such that Pockit would need to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman