DRN-3217752
The complaint
Mr L has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc has treated him unfairly when he requested to 
open an account with them. He feels he has been subjected to discrimination.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advance account
Mr L thinks HSBC have discriminated and breached the Equality Act 2010 (EqA) because 
they have refused his application to open an Advance bank account and Mr L believes this is 
due to him being over 60. Its not my role to decide if the EqA has been breached as thats 
for a court to decide. However, Ive looked at whether Mr L was treated fairly when HSBC 
considered his application and I cant see that age was a deciding factor or that Mr L has 
been treated unfairly.
Mr L says HSBC refused his application to open an Advance bank account (with an overdraft 
of £1,000) due to him being over the age of 60. He has said that the criteria for opening an 
Advance account is that you must be able to pay in £1,750 or more each month (or at least 
£10,500 every 6 months) are 18 or older, live in the UK or EU and are happy for a  credit 
check to be completed. He says that as he meets or exceeds all the criteria listed, there is 
no reason why he should have been refused an Advance account. However, an agent at 
HSBC asked Mr L for his date of birth, so Mr L says he was refused an Advance account 
based on his age.
The criteria Mr L refers to is the conditions customers must meet before they can be 
considered for an Advance account. If you meet those conditions you can then apply for the 
account. However, HSBC will then apply its lending criteria, as there is a larger overdraft 
facility available for this account. So, while Mr L met the conditions for the account, HSBC 
explained he didnt meet the lending criteria. As such he wasnt offered an Advance account 
with an overdraft facility of £1,000, but he was offered a basic account with an overdraft 
facility of £500.
HSBC hasnt provided me with its lending criteria for granting an Advance account. Mr L has 
said HSBC is hiding behind a cloak, but as the information is commercially sensitive, I dont 
think its acted unreasonably here. What HSBC has provided is evidence to show that Mr L 
didnt meet its internal credit-scoring requirements. I am satisfied by the information provided 
that Mr L didnt meet those requirements and as such, wasnt offered the Advance account 
in line with HSBCs policy. 
HSBC has also provided an explanation and evidence to show that while you do need to be 
18 or over to be considered for an Advanced account, once you meet those conditions and 
the application process has started, age is no longer considered. The algorithm used doesnt 
have a rule that considers the age of the applicant. Mr L says that HSBC has discriminated 
against him due to his age and has breached the EqA. I can understand why Mr L may have 
felt this way but having looked at all the evidence I am satisfied HSBC has treated him fairly 
and reasonably. I hope this helps Mr L to know someone impartial and independent has 
looked into this concern.
However, HSBC was happy to offer Mr L another account with an overdraft facility of £500. It 
explained this was to establish a full banking relationship, with the option of Mr L upgrading 
once this had been established. And while Mr L has said he already held an account with 
HSBC (trading under another name), the account he held with the bank in question whilst 
part of the HSBC group, will have its own risk appetite when offering accounts/lending.
I appreciate why Mr L remained unhappy and frustrated as he had been offered other 
accounts from other financial institutions with a bigger lending facility. However, I am 
satisfied HSBC followed its internal lending criteria process fairly and reserves the right to 
set its own risk appetite.
The service provided by HSBC.
I agree that HSBC has made some service errors while dealing with Mr Ls complaint, 
including an unnecessary tone in some correspondence, failure to address or clarify 
concerns promptly and addressing him in an inappropriate manner. And that this impacted 
him in several ways including him feeling disrespected, suffering a degree of distress and he 
feels it has wasted his time. However, HSBC has offered Mr L £250 to compensate for the 
distress, disrespect and impact it had on his feelings and Im satisfied that the compensation 
offered puts this right. As such, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
Defamatory comments
Mr L has said there have been defamatory comments made by HSBC regarding missed 
payments, him facing financial difficulties and allegations of fraud. Firstly, I would like to 
address Mr Ls concerns regarding allegations of fraud. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that HSBC have said this to Mr L or to our service. As such I wont be commenting 
on this any further or asking HSBC to do anything more in relation to this.
I can understand why Mr L feels HSBC has made comments about him missing payments 
and his financial position. And I appreciate how strongly Mr L feels about this and the impact 
it could have had. However, from everything Ive reviewed I am satisfied HSBC did not say 
Mr L had missed any payments or commented on his credit history. As such I cant conclude 
that HSBC made any adverse comments about Mr L in respect to this. 
Mr L does have concerns about comments made by this service; however, this doesnt form 
part of my review of his complaint about HSBC which focuses on its actions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Jade RoweOmbudsman