The complaint
Mr A and Mrs S complain that Habib Bank Zurich Pls (Habib Bank) applied unfair charges 
to their account without giving them prior notice.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Habib Bank says it sent Mr A and Mrs S a letter on 19 April 2018 that advised them
of a new tariff book coming into effect on 25 June 2018, which also set out the
minimum balance requirement and charges applicable from that date.
Mr A and Mrs S say they did not receive this letter from the bank. They say they live
overseas and so have their mail sent to a relatives address in the UK, who then
forwards any letters received via email. But they do not recall ever having been
forwarded the letter of 19 April 2018 from the relative, and so submit that it was never
received at the address. But I can see that the letter contains the correct address
held on file for Mr A and Mrs S, and Ive got to take into account that the vast majority
of correctly addressed mail is safely received by the intended recipient. Ive not been
made aware of any problems with the postal service during this period, and Ive also
got to weigh up the possibility that the letter could have been overlooked by Mr A and
Mrs Ss relative that usually scans and forwards their mail via email. I appreciate Mr
A and Mrs S strongly dispute this but, on balance, I think its more likely than not that
the letter would have been received at the property it was addressed to.
Mr A and Mrs S say that Habib Bank should have sent the letter of 19 April 2018 via
email, as they had typically been in email contact with it before in relation to separate
matters. But Ive seen no contractual or statutory obligation that would require to the
bank to send all its correspondence by email  and in my experience physical letters
still remain the preference of choice for most banks in order to communicate changes
of terms and conditions. So the fact that a letter was sent rather than an email does
not mean that Habib Bank cannot fairly rely on the change in its banking terms and
conditions.
I do appreciate, however, that Habib Banks failure to send an email amounts to poor
customer service  if this was how Mr A and Mrs S had typically communicated with
it in the past. But I note that the bank has offered them £250 in its final response as a
DRN-2090664gesture of goodwill, which I consider to be fair compensation in the circumstances for 
the trouble and upset caused by its handling of this matter.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr A and Mrs S. But Im afraid I have not 
seen enough evidence to persuade me that Habib Bank cannot fairly rely on its change in 
terms and conditions.     
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman