DRN-4100840
The complaint
Miss S complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (who Ill call SMF) should have
allowed her to reject a car she was financing through an agreement with them.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint last month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
I know it will disappoint SMF, but I think they should have allowed Miss S to reject the car
when she asked to. My reasons are a little different than our investigators and, as the car
has been sold since he issued his view on this complaint, my redress is different too. Im
therefore providing a provisional decision. I will review any comments I get from SMF or
Miss S when I reach my final decision on this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss S acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says a customer has 30 days
to reject a car thats of unsatisfactory quality, not fit for purpose or not as described.
The 30 days runs from the day after the date of delivery, not the date of the contract and if,
as is the case here, the consumer agrees to or asks for a repair - a waiting period starts on
the day of the request and ends on the day the consumer gets the car back.
The clock stops running during the period of any repair or replacement. On return of the car,
the consumer has the remainder of the 30 day period or 7 days (whichever is the longer) to
use the short-term right to reject if the car is still faulty.
Miss S took receipt of the car on 5 May 2022. On 16 May 2022, she contacted SMF to raise
concerns about the car. This included a loud buzzing and rattling coming from inside the car.
Miss S authorised repairs to the car but the earliest appointment they could offer was in June
2022. The car was collected after repair on 8 June 2022 and on 10 June 2022, Miss S
emailed SMF asking to reject the car. She told them the car still rattled and that it was louder
than before the repairs took place. She also said no service history had been supplied (Ill
come back to that). As the clock had stopped running on the 30 day right to reject when Miss
Ss car was being repaired, I think she had asked to reject it in time if there was evidence it
was of unsatisfactory quality, not fit for purpose or not as described.
I think its likely the car was of unsatisfactory quality as I dont think its likely it had been
satisfactorily repaired. I say that because:
Miss S quickly complained that it wasnt.
Miss S attached a video of the problem to her complaint. Ive not been able to watch
that video as the link has expired. It seems unlikely Miss S would have attached a
video if it didnt demonstrate the continuing problems.
It seems likely the noise was present only when the car was in motion. So, Im not
persuaded by the inspection report completed as I think it unlikely the inspector drove
the car; theres nothing in the report to suggest that was the case.
And, regardless of whether the car was of satisfactory quality, I also think SMF should have
allowed Miss S to reject it because I dont think it was as described.
The advert provided by the business says the car had its last service on 15 October 2021 at
48,117 miles. Miss S has provided a copy of what she saw and that simply suggests there
was a service history. Miss S has provided photographs of the service book and it doesnt
show any service stamps. Shes also provided a printout of the electronic service log that
suggests no services have been completed and stored electronically. The business have
suggested Miss S signed to say shed received all documentation, including the service
records, but Im not persuaded its likely Miss S did receive any service documentation. I say
that because I can see Miss S was chasing the dealership for proof of servicing; she emailed
them asking for the service records on 26 May 2022 to explain she still hadnt received it. It
was also Miss Ss primary reason for wanting to reject the car.
Taking all the information into account I think Miss S made a valid claim to exercise her right
to reject the car within the first 30 days and SMF should therefore put things right for her.
Putting things right
The car was returned and sold in October 2022 and SMF have explained that the proceeds
were applied to Miss Ss account.
SMF will need to end the agreement with nothing more to pay.
As Miss S should have been allowed to reject the car in June 2022 I think its only fair for her
to pay one monthly finance instalment towards the use she had from the vehicle. All other
monthly instalments should be returned to her with interest, as shes been deprived of that
money. If any of these instalments were due but were not paid, they should be waived.
SMF should also refund any deposit Miss S has paid and theyll need to add interest to that
refund too.
I think Miss S has experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of this issue. She
funded an alternative vehicle when she correctly thought she made a valid request to reject
the car. So, it must have been distressing to think she may still be liable for payments on this
agreement and to worry about any adverse reports that may be made to her credit file. Shes
also had to escalate her complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved
earlier. In the circumstances Im expecting to ask SMF to pay Miss S £300 in compensation.
Miss S also says shes incurred some costs as a consequence of the car being of
unsatisfactory quality. Ive seen receipts for a parcel shelf clip, tyres, and a compressor.
Miss S has also explained that the windscreen needed replacing, although I think that was
completed free of charge. Im not persuaded it would be fair to ask SMF to refund any costs
associated with these repairs, as I dont think it would be considered unusual for a car that
was already about eight years old to have wear and tear such as this, and it was Miss Ssdecision to incur the expenses.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Specialist
Motor Finance Limited to:
End the finance agreement with nothing more to pay.
Refund any deposit Miss S paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
Refund any finance instalments Miss S has paid except the first one. Add 8% simple
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement. Waive any
finance instalments, other than the first, if they were due but havent been paid.
Pay Miss S £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Ss credit file in relation to
this agreement.
SMF didnt respond to my provisional decision but Miss S did. She said she agreed with the 
redress Id set out except she didnt think Id been fair to ask her to pay a whole monthly 
instalment for fair usage. She said:
I received the car  in the late afternoon of 5th May 2022, my drive back home, discovering 
the noises the next day, the event of finding the massive leak, etc that I only totalled a 
usable 12 whole days out of that month. Therefore, I would only be willing to incur an 
instalment payment of £142.66p maximum
She also explained that Id made a mistake in the section of my provisional decision entitled 
Putting things right. She provided a collection sheet showing that the car was collected in 
November 2022 and not at the end of October 2022, as Id suggested.
Miss S was also upset to have received a notice of sums in arrears from SMF that was dated 
a few days after Id sent my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Miss S for pointing out the error in the collection date. I dont think that 
changes the way Ive suggested things should be put right, however.
Ive reconsidered what usage Miss S had from the car in light of her recent submissions. Its 
not possible to reach a totally accurate figure for the days she had use of the car, but I think 
the mileage completed is a good guide. When Miss S returned the car the collection sheet 
explained it had covered a total of 50,982 miles. The invoice suggests the car had a mileage 
of 48,477 when it was supplied to Miss S. So, Miss S had covered 2,505 miles in the car. 
The average annual mileage in the UK is about 8,000 and that would therefore suggest that 
Miss S had more than a months worth of use from the vehicle. But that usage was impaired 
by the faults she experienced whilst driving the car and, overall, Im persuaded a charge of 
one monthly instalment for usage is fair. But I dont think Miss S should pay any less.
I can only assume that the notice of arrears letter was automatically generated by SMF, but 
as Ive not been provided with any new information that would lead me to change my 
provisional decision, I think the order Im making will set things right, and ensure any adverse information that may have been reported to Miss Ss credit file is removed.
Putting things right
My provisional decision remains unchanged and becomes my final decision on this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited to:
End the finance agreement with nothing more to pay.
Refund any deposit Miss S paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement.
Refund any finance instalments Miss S has paid except the first one. Add 8% simple
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement. Waive any
finance instalments, other than the first, if they were due but havent been paid.
Pay Miss S £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Ss credit file in relation to
this agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman