DRN-3185828
The complaint
Mr S complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited avoided his motor policy (treated it 
like it never existed) and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr S took out a motor policy with Calpe Insurance through a price comparison site. He was 
involved in an accident, and his car was written off. So, he claimed on his policy, asking 
Calpe Insurance to meet his claim.
Calpe Insurance said hed answered the question it asked about his motoring convictions 
incorrectly as he had a pending conviction, hed not told it about. And it considered this to be 
a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to void his policy, and 
retain the premium. In addition, it said Mr S was liable for all costs of all claims under this 
policy.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our Investigator ultimately thought it should be upheld. 
She felt Mr S had answered the question that was asked  whether he had any motoring 
convictions. She didnt think the question asked about any pending convictions, so Mr S 
hadnt made a misrepresentation. Because of that, she recommended Calpe reconsider 
Mr Ss claim.
Calpe Insurance doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans 
decision. It felt the question was clear in also asking about pending convictions  and 
provided a further screenshot which did ask about pending convictions. Our Investigator 
thought the screenshot Calpe provided at this stage was an updated version  so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Calpe Insurance thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he answered the question regarding motoring convictions on the price comparison 
site.
Ive looked at the question that was asked. When Calpe were asked by our Investigator to 
show this, they provided a screenshot with the question from the price comparison site. The 
question says, under a section called Convictions:
Have you had any driving related convictions, endorsements, penalties, disqualifications or 
bans in the past 5 years?
The question makes no reference to any pending convictions, nor needing to declare those. 
The screenshot Calpe provided after our Investigator said it should reassess the claim, says:
In the last five years have you received any motoring convictions, driving licence 
endorsements or fixed penalties, and/or have you been disqualified from driving (including 
any pending prosecutions)? 
When I compare the two questions, they are quite similar and appear to largely be asking for 
the same information  except the second screenshot asks about pending convictions. So, 
on balance, Im persuaded the latest screenshot is an updated version of this question  
rather than a question that was asked at the time Mr S took out his policy.
Because of that, I think Mr S did take reasonable care in answering the question he was 
asked as he wasnt asked to disclose a pending conviction  so the basis on which Calpe 
has said he made a misrepresentation arent correct. As a result of that, Calpes actions are 
unfair, and not in line with CIDRA.
I think a fair way to resolve this complaint is to require Calpe to reassess Mr Ss claim again. 
I want to make it clear that in this complaint Ive only decided Calpes actions are unfair 
because its said hes made a misrepresentation specifically in relation to the pending 
conviction. Ive not considered any other factors. So, if Calpe were to turn down Mr Ss claim 
for any other reason, or again allege hes made a misrepresentation, thatd be a new issue.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint and require Calpe 
Insurance Company Limited to reassess his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman