DRN-1683548
The complaint
Mr B complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) wont issue him 
a zero-rated tax invoice to enable him, as a disabled person,  to claim  VAT relief on parts 
and service for his car. He would like MBFS to provide the information he needs for HMRC
What happened
Mr B says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with MBFS in 2018 for a car. He says 
there is a tax scheme whereby he can get VAT relief if the car has been adapted which he 
says his has. He had hand controls fitted.
Mr B says HMRC has advised him he needs a zero VAT rated  invoice and a form 
(VAT1616A) completed by the business but MBFS  wont do this. Without this Mr B says he 
will have to pay VAT on parts and services.
MBFS says it couldnt provide the invoice Mr B requested  as the finance agreement Mr B 
signed already excluded VAT. It said the invoice was for £38,851.99 comprising £32,409.16 
for the vehicle and extras plus £6,442.83 VAT. However, the finance agreement was for 
£32,409.16 representing the price of the vehicle excluding VAT. So, the finance agreement 
showed the agreement was a VAT exempt one.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint initially. He accepted that MBFS view that it 
couldnt provide a sales  invoice since Mr Bs finance agreement  already excluded VAT. 
However, when Mr B didnt accept this view and provided more information from HMRC our 
investigator changed his view and upheld Mr Bs complaint. He found MBFS did need to 
provide the relevant information.
He recommended that MBFS provide Mr B with a zero-rated tax invoice and pay £150 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Mr B accepted this view but despite several attempts to contact MBFS it has not responded 
to our investigators view. So, Mr Bs  complaint has been put forward for an Ombudsmans 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I understand it Mr B has been advised during a routine car service that if he supplies the 
relevant information to HMRC , and HMRC accept this, he would not have to pay VAT  on 
services and repairs on his car.
I appreciate MBFS has pointed out that the sale price of the car was £38,851.99 which 
included £6442,83 VAT. But the finance agreement was only for £32,409.16 which MBFS  
says shows the agreement excluded was for sum excluding VAT. 
MBFS told Mr B that it cant provide an invoice excluding VAT since the invoice issued to Mr  
included VAT. I have seen the sales  invoice which does  includes VAT and is for the higher 
amount of  £38,851.99. 
I appreciate MBFSs point but as it has confirmed Mr B didnt pay VAT on his vehicle, I dont 
see why it cant provide Mr B with an invoice to confirm this since no one seems to be 
disputing that Mr B didnt pay VAT on his car. 
MBFS has also said as the finance provider it cant provide an invoice as it doesnt sell cars. 
I dont accept that .The retailer arranged the finance through MBFS so acts as its agents. 
The invoice is linked to the sale and the finance agreement. MBFS might want to ask the 
retailer to provide an accurate invoice but it needs to take responsibility for this being sent to 
Mr B
Its Mr B who has had the conversations with HMRC and as a disabled person I am inclined 
to think he should be the person most  aware of what he needs in order to be eligible for 
VAT relief on services and repairs. And he understands he needs a zero VAT rated invoice. 
He clearly wouldnt be asking for that if he didnt need it or if the finance agreement itself was 
sufficient evidence.  I dont feel MBFS has given a good reason as to why it cant provide 
this.
Along with his request for a zero VAT rated invoice I have noted Mr B sent form VAT 1616A 
to the business to complete and send to HMRC. He doesnt know if this has been done and 
from the information, we have been given by the business neither do I. In the absence of any 
information to make me feel differently I am inclined to believe the form hasnt been 
completed. And I see no reason as to why MBFS shouldnt complete this  its a simple form 
and is clearly applicable to Mr Bs situation.
Finally, I agree with our investigators view that Mr B should be paid some compensation for 
the inconvenience caused to him. Our investigator recommended £150. I think this is fair
our text here
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should:-
- Provide Mr B with an invoice clearly showing he didnt pay VAT for his car
- Complete form VAT1616A or provide evidence to show it has already done this
- Pay Mr B £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman