DRN-3307409
The complaint
Mr C complains British Gas Insurance Limited didnt service his boiler, controls and central 
heating correctly over a number of years, cancelled an appointment for repairs at the last 
minute and didnt reimburse him when he got another engineer to carry out the repairs.
  
What happened
Mr C took out a home emergency insurance policy with British Gas in 2016. In this and later 
years, the policy gave him cover for his boiler, controls and central heating on a repair and 
service basis.
Following services in 2016 and 2018, British Gas also serviced Mr Cs boiler, controls and 
central heating in November 2020. 
In March 2021, Mr C reported to British Gas that the heating was making a loud noise when 
it came on, the hot water was running cold and some radiators were leaking, while others 
werent working. 
British Gas arranged an appointment with Mr C for the middle of April 2021. Mr C took time 
off work for it. But British Gas cancelled on the morning of the appointment, saying its 
engineers were in high demand. The next available appointment wasnt until the middle of 
May 2021. So British Gas said Mr C could get another engineer to look at the problem. And 
it said it would reimburse him all the costs within your policy cover.
Mr C says the engineer he called in said the central heating system hadnt been serviced 
correctly by British Gas and was really dirty, the heat exchanger hadnt been checked and 
the filter hadnt been cleaned. The engineer quoted Mr C around £4,000 to replace the 
boiler, the hot water tank, some radiators, and the filter.
When Mr C complained to British Gas about what had happened and asked to be 
reimbursed his engineers costs, it offered (and has paid) him £230 as a goodwill gesture for 
its poor customer service and because it hadnt serviced Mr Cs boiler, controls and heating 
in 2019. But British Gas didnt think it had done anything wrong with the servicing and so 
wasnt responsible for Mr Cs costs. 
Mr C brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it thought British Gas offer 
of compensation to Mr C was fair and reasonable but he didnt think it would be fair and 
reasonable for British Gas to reimburse Mr C for replacing his central heating system.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr C has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas has already offered (and paid) Mr C £230 to settle the complaint and I think its 
offer is fair in all the circumstances, as Ill explain.
British Gas says it offered Mr C £230 as a goodwill gesture for the cancellation of his 
appointment and for the missed service. It says £100 of this compensation was for the 
distress and inconvenience its cancellation of his appointment on the day caused Mr C. And 
£130 was offered because Mr Cs central heating wasnt serviced in 2019.
I think it mustve been distressing and inconvenient for Mr C to have had his appointment 
cancelled on the day. Hed taken time off work and moved things around in his home ready 
for an engineers visit. He didnt get call-backs from British Gas when hed been told to 
expect them. And, having already waited a month, he was told hed need to wait another 
month for a new appointment. But I think the compensation of £100 British Gas has paid    
Mr C for the distress and inconvenience it caused him is fair and reasonable and in line with 
what Id expect it to offer in these circumstances. 
I also think the compensation of £130 British Gas has paid Mr C for the missed service is fair 
and reasonable. Thats because hed paid for an annual service as part of his policy 
premium and, in 2019, he didnt get it.
I dont, however, think it would be fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to reimburse Mr C 
the cost of having his central heating replaced. I know Mr C thinks thats what British Gas 
agreed to because he got an email saying it would pay all the costs within your policy 
cover. 
I think the important words here are within your policy cover. Mr Cs policy which, as Ive 
said, covered his boiler, controls and central heating on a service and repair basis, sets out a 
list of things that are covered. But it also sets out a list of things that arent covered. So I 
think what British Gas was saying in its email is that it would pay all his costs if the problems 
his engineer found were covered by his policy. I dont think British Gas was giving a blanket 
agreement to cover all Mr Cs costs, whatever the circumstances.
British Gas has said it wont reimburse Mr Cs costs, because it doesnt think it failed to 
service his boiler, controls and central heating correctly in 2016, 2018 and 2020. What I 
need to decide is whether or not British Gas has acted fairly and reasonably in reaching this 
conclusion. And for that, I must consider all the evidence Ive got from both Mr C and British 
Gas. For the purposes of this decision, however, Im just going to summarise what I think are 
the main points.
When Mr Cs wife called British Gas after his engineer had visited, she said hed advised the 
water tank needed replacing due to a build-up of sludge, which shouldve been picked up on 
servicing. British Gas call notes say it told Mr Cs wife it would need to check this ourselves 
as [the] T's and C's state damage due to sludge or scale will not be covered. The call notes 
go on to say British Gas offered to get an engineer to visit Mr C the next day but Mr C had 
lost faith in British Gas and so turned down the offer. 
Mr C subsequently got a short report from his engineer on what hed found. It says an 
isolation valve to the fortic cylinder float operated inlet valve was closed. He says Mr Cs wife 
had told him this had been isolated by British Gas on the previous service visit. He says after 
opening the isolation valve and filling the water tank, it was clear the inlet valve had failed  
and because it hadnt been changed for a new valve, the water tank had been damaged. 
In his report, Mr Cs engineer also says the main heat exchanger and primary filter were 
heavily clogged with system debris. He says neither of these components shouldve been 
in the condition they were in following a recent service. To rectify the problems, he quoted to 
power flush the system, remove the damaged hot water tank and replace the boiler.British Gas has disputed Mr Cs engineers findings. It says Mr Cs policy doesnt cover the 
installation of a new central heating system, if the existing system can be repaired. It says 
power flushing isnt included in Mr Cs cover. It says, if its last engineer had isolated the inlet 
valve to the fortic cylinder ball valve, Mr C wouldnt have had water since November 2020.  It 
says if the water tank was dry, the primary water would be running through the primary 
circuit and shouldnt cause any damage to the cylinder, as the boiler would just turn off on 
temperature. 
British Gas also disputes Mr Cs engineers findings in relation to the system debris. It says 
this is generally caused by poor installation and system configuration over a long time, 
causing oxidisation sludge to build up. It says the only way this issue could be related to an 
annual service is if by system debris Mr Cs engineer meant combustion/heat exchanger 
alloy degradation. But it says the service procedure for Mr Cs boiler states the primary heat 
exchanger doesnt need cleaning if the fan pressure test result is satisfactory. Although the 
work history for Mr Cs 2020 service doesnt say this test was conducted, British Gas says its 
engineers report shows the combustion and gas rate were satisfactory, which British Gas 
says leads it to believe the heat exchanger wouldnt have required any further servicing. And 
British Gas says the primary filter wasnt looked at when a service took place in April 2018 
due to an access issue (something I know Mr C disputes). It says a blocked filter is easily 
remedied and does not add to any justification to install a new boiler/system.
The evidence Ive seen in this complaint isnt complete. British Gas hasnt been able to give 
us copies of the checklists it says its engineers wouldve completed for each service. Mr C 
says he wasnt given copies. I have seen an extract from a spreadsheet that summarises 
each visit report (I think this is the information a British Gas technician shared with Mr Cs 
wife) but this isnt a complete record. 
Nevertheless, from the evidence I have seen, its clear Mr Cs engineer and British Gas have 
different views on the cause of Mr Cs central heating problems. My role isnt to decide what 
caused these problems. Its to decide if British Gas has acted fairly and reasonably in 
refusing to reimburse Mr C his costs. As Ive said, I dont think British Gas gave Mr C a 
blanket agreement to pay all his repair costs. I think it agreed only to pay those that fell 
within his policy. So I think it was entitled to investigate whether the costs Mr C was claiming 
for did fall within his cover or else were caused by poor servicing. But British Gas wasnt able 
to do this, because Mr C turned down its offer of a visit. The report Mr Cs engineer prepared 
is short and his findings arent supported by any photographic evidence. And British Gas 
own engineers have explained throughout why they dont accept Mr Cs engineers findings. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think British Gas has acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
relying on its engineers technical advice to decide not to reimburse Mr C his costs for 
replacing his central heating system.
In addition to the points Ive summarised here, Ive considered all the other points Mr C has 
made in support of his position but they dont change my conclusions on his complaint.
My final decision
British Gas Insurance Limited has offered and paid Mr C £230 to settle his complaint. I think 
thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and I dont think British Gas Insurance 
Limited needs to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Jane GallacherOmbudsman