DRN-4461904
The complaint
Mr C and Ms S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt agree to a new interest rate 
on their interest only mortgage, and wouldnt agree to extend the term.
What happened
Mr C and Ms S have an interest only mortgage with Barclays. They took it out in 2008 over a 
term of 15 years, ending in 2023. 
In April 2023 Mr C and Ms S consulted a mortgage broker about taking a new interest rate. 
The broker applied for a five year fixed rate of 3.84%. Barclays declined the application 
because the fixed rate would extend beyond the end of the mortgage term, so Mr C and 
Ms S made an application for a term extension. Barclays declined the term extension 
application too. 
Mr C and Ms S complained. They didnt think theyd been treated fairly. They said that the 
failure to give them a new fixed rate meant their mortgage payments were increasing. And 
they didnt understand why Barclays wasnt willing to extend the term  they thought it might 
be because it had discriminated against Mr C because he is unable to work through ill-health 
and in receipt of benefits.  
Barclays didnt think it had acted unfairly, though it paid Mr C and Ms S £150 compensation 
for delays in responding to their complaint. Our investigator didnt think their complaint about 
the interest rate and term extension should be upheld, so Mr C and Ms S asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr C and Ms S applied for a new interest rate, their application was declined because 
the term of the fixed rate was longer than the remaining term of their mortgage.
This was fair, because a new interest rate can only be applied for the same length as the 
remaining mortgage term or less. The rate Mr C and Ms S selected ran for five years, but 
they only had a few months left on their mortgage term. Its not possible to have an interest 
rate than runs for longer than the mortgage  not least because when Mr C and Ms S repay 
the mortgage at the end of the term, there would be an early repayment charge for ending 
the interest rate early. 
Mr C and Ms S therefore applied for an extension of the mortgage term, to match the five 
year duration of the rate theyd selected.
They spoke to a Barclays adviser who took them through an application. Ive listened to the 
calls they had with the adviser. They explained that they owned several buy to let properties 
which they intended to sell to repay this interest only mortgage  but they didnt want to do 
so yet because of early repayment charges on mortgages on the buy to let properties. And 
they wanted to take a new fixed rate in the meantime to guard against increases in their 
monthly payments due to rises in their existing tracker rate.
At the time of their application Ms S was in employment and Mr C was self-employed. But 
Mr C had recently had to reduce his work and was now in receipt of benefits because of 
ill-health. Both were in their late fifties at the time and said they planned to retire at age 67. 
The adviser they spoke to explained that their application would go to an underwriter to 
make a decision on the term extension, and if that was granted theyd be able to book a rate 
for up to the new term.
The adviser did make clear more than once that this was an application and there was no 
guarantee it would be granted. She did say that she would be recommending a term 
extension for the underwriter to consider, but that it would be the underwriters decision.
But, as Ms S pointed out to our investigator, the adviser also gave them a misleading 
impression of the chances of success. The reality was that it wasnt her decision, and she 
couldnt know what the underwriter would decide. But in discussing the future the adviser 
also assumed that it would be granted, and at one point wrongly told Mr C and Ms S that it 
had been. So I can see why Mr C and Ms S were left with the impression that the 
underwriters review was a mere formality.
In fact, however, it wasnt. The underwriter rejected the application for a term extension. His 
reasons were largely because Mr Cs income had recently reduced drastically, and he was 
concerned that the mortgage would no longer be affordable. Mr C and Ms S had the means 
to repay their mortgage now if they chose to do so, and extending the term, tying them into a 
fixed rate requiring them to make payments for five years or face an early repayment charge, 
risked making their situation worse and wasnt in their best interests.
Mr C and Ms S strongly disagree with this decision. They think it wasnt fair, and is 
potentially discriminatory against Mr C  his benefits providing a stable fixed income. They 
dont think they should be forced into selling their investment properties before theyre ready 
to do so  at a time of their choosing, not Barclays. And because the fixed rate couldnt go 
through without a term extension, theyve been forced to pay more interest than they needed 
to.
I appreciate their strength of feeling. But, taking everything into account, I dont think 
Barclays has treated them unfairly.
This is an interest only mortgage and when they took it out Mr C and Ms S agreed that 
theyd repay the capital at the end of the agreed term. All other things being equal, its not 
unreasonable for Barclays to expect them to do that as they said they would.
Where a borrower is unable to pay, Id expect Barclays to show forbearance, and to work 
with them to reach a point where the mortgage can be repaid in the future if possible. But 
that isnt the case here. Mr C and Ms S could repay the mortgage at the end of the term  
they have substantial equity in their investment properties (as well as in the property subject 
to this mortgage). So they do have the resources needed to repay.
I appreciate theyd rather wait another few years before doing so. That means they avoid 
early repayment charges on their buy to let mortgages and can benefit from the rental 
income for longer. It would benefit them financially to delay repayment  though that involves 
asking Barclays to absorb the cost of delayed repayment so Mr C and Ms S dont have to 
absorb the cost of repaying when they agreed they would. Theres a cost to a lender in not getting back the capital it lent, even if it continues to receive interest in the meantime.
Nevertheless, Id expect Barclays to give fair consideration to any application to extend the 
term. I think it did that. I dont think it was unfair to note that Mr Cs income had fallen 
substantially recently, and to be concerned about the impact of that on Mr C and Ms Ss 
ability to manage the mortgage payments over any extended term. Theyve pointed to more 
recent increases in their rental income, but that wasnt in place at the time of their application 
and so couldnt have been taken into account. 
Based on what it knew of their finances at the time of the application, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Barclays to be concerned about a term extension, tying Mr C and Ms S into 
making repayments for a further five years, when there were legitimate grounds for being 
concerned about whether doing so would be affordable on their reduced income. Barclays 
didnt disregard Mr Cs benefits income, but it did take into account that the benefit payments 
were lower than his previous self-employed income  which I think was fair. 
Taking all that into account, I dont think Barclays decision was unreasonable. Mr C and 
Ms S had agreed to repay their mortgage at the end of the existing term, and had the 
resources to be able to do so if they chose. The alternative, of extending the term, carried 
additional risks and so Barclays concluded that, on balance, it didnt think those risks meant 
that a term extension would be in their best interests. 
As Ive said, I think the adviser Mr C and Ms S dealt with could have managed their 
expectations better. While she made clear that it would ultimately be an underwriters 
decision, she was more confident of the outcome than was justified. But I dont think that 
means that Barclays guaranteed that it would be agreed, or is required to override the 
underwriters decision now. 
The term of Mr C and Ms Ss mortgage ends shortly. And so theyll need to engage with 
Barclays about their plans to repay the capital. Barclays should continue to treat them fairly 
and give fair consideration to any proposals they might make.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman