DRN-4020705
The complaint
Mrs P complains about a loan she took out with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF). The loan related to the purchase of solar panels 
and Mrs P believes the solar panels were missold. Mrs P is unhappy that BPF has not 
upheld the claim she made under S75 Consumer Credit Act. 
What happened
In January 2013 Mrs P bought solar panels using a loan from BPF. Mrs P says that she was 
misled at the time of the sale about the performance and benefits of the solar panels. In 
particular, about the true cost of the panels when factoring a number of things, such as the 
electricity cost savings, feed in tariff payments and cost of the loan. 
Mrs P believes she has grounds for a successful claim under S75 Consumer Credit Act 
against BPF as the provider of the loan. When responding to Mrs Ps claim, BPF explained 
that it believes Mrs P has claimed too late, as it is more than 6 years since the sale of the 
solar panels. 
Unable to resolve matters with BPF Mrs P brought her complaint to our service, where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. They explained that BPF has ultimately not treated 
Mrs P unfairly by declining her S75 claim and relying on the Limitations Act 1980.  
Mrs P did not accept the investigators findings and believes that the misrepresentation 
occurred some years after the sale, which would therefore make her claim in time. As the 
complaint could not be resolved informally, it has been referred to me so a final decision can 
be issued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
S75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Ps complaint, Ive taken S75 into 
account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for example, a 
court might reach if Mrs P pursued a claim for misrepresentation and or breach of contract. 
This service is not a court but an alternative to the courts. Mrs Ps complaint is essentially 
that BPF hasnt properly exercised its duties under the finance agreement it had with her. 
Specifically, its duties under S75, which says: If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the 
agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall 
accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
BPFs stance is that any claim Mrs P had against the solar panels supplier is now time 
barred due to the Limitation Act 1980. Specifically, it relies on those provisions that say a 
cause of action, of the types complained about here, shall not be brought after the expiration 
of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. Mrs Ps issues relate to an 
alleged misrepresentation by the solar panel supplier.
The alleged misrepresentation relates to what Mrs P was told about the benefits of the solar 
panels, the amount of energy savings they would produce and the overall cost of the solar 
panels when factoring in the cost of the loan. This took place prior to Mrs P agreeing to take 
out the panels in January 2013. Ive noted what Mrs P has said about the misrepresentation 
occurring at a later date but this is not correct and Im satisfied that the cause of action, in 
relation to the alleged misrepresentation, relates to those events at the time of the sale in 
2013. And that for Mrs P to be able to claim under S75 any claim would need to be made 
within 6 years of January 2013.
When considering whether Mrs P has a valid claim under S75, Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for BPF to also consider the Limitations Act 1980 to decide whether the claim 
was raised in time. The Limitations Act 1980 essentially requires any claim to have been 
brought within 6 years of the event complained about, which here is the alleged 
misrepresentation in 2013. The 6 years can be extended but requires the claimant to have 
brought their claim within three years of being aware, or when they ought to have been 
aware, of cause for complaint. 
Ive not been presented with any evidence to show that Mrs P did actually bring a claim 
within 6 years of 2013 and it appears the earliest any claim was raised was in 2023, which is 
more than 6 years later. I have also considered whether the claim period should be extended 
under the 3 year element of the rule, but I dont find the claim period should be extended 
beyond the original 6 years. Mrs Ps issues relate to the solar panels, and associated 
benefits, not being in line with what she was led to believe by the salesman. Mrs P would 
have been receiving feed in tariff payments, electricity meter readings, plus other things that 
would have alerted her to the fact that the solar panels were not producing the benefits Mrs 
P says she was told about. This should have been apparent within around a year of taking 
out the solar panels. And definitely within two years. As Mrs P should have therefore 
reasonably had cause to raise her claim within 2 years of taking out the panels, this would 
not extend the 6 year part of the Limitations Act further. 
Having considered the specific circumstances here, it is likely that any claim in court that Mrs 
P would have against the solar panel provider would be considered to have been made out 
of time, in relation to the alleged misrepresentation. And consequently therefore, any like 
claim Mrs P may have had against BPF would also be considered out of time. Having 
considered the implications of the Limitations Act 1980 alongside S75 Consumer Credit Act, 
I dont consider BPF acted unreasonably when deciding Mrs Ps claim for misrepresentation 
had been raised too late. 
Finally, I have also considered whether or not Mrs P would have a successful claim under 
S140A Consumer Credit Act, which relates to Unfair Relationships. Like S75, there are 
however time limits for a claim to be considered under S140A and Mrs P would have had 6 
years from the end of the relationship with BPF to bring her claim. As Mrs Ps loan ended in 
January 2016 this would be when Mrs Ps relationship ended with BPF. Mrs P would 
therefore have 6 years from this date to bring a claim under S140A. But as set out already, 
no claim was submitted until 2023, which is more than 6 years later. 
I very much appreciate Mrs P will remain unhappy with what I have set out here and I have 
noted what she has said about other successful claims that our service has decided. But 
those cases are likely to be where the claim was raised within the required timescales, which 
is unfortunately for Mrs P not the case here. And whether Mrs P was actually misled at the time of the sale by the solar panel salesperson is not something I have actually considered 
here as her claim has been raised too late.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ps complaint against Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance as I do not consider it treated Mrs P 
unfairly or unreasonably when considering her S75 claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman