DRN-1847300
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that, as part of advice about transferring out of an occupational pension 
scheme, Standard Life Client Management Limited gave her unsuitable advice to recycle 
tax-free cash within a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), resulting in an inability to 
access some of her pension pot before 55.
Mrs M also complained about the administration of her SIPP in the same complaint to us, but 
as the SIPP was administered by a different business Ive dealt with that complaint in 
another decision.
What happened
In December 2015 Standard Life advised Mrs M in relation to the transfer of her occupational 
pension scheme to a SIPP. As part of the advice it was suggested she consider drawing an 
income from the SIPP and recycle that income back into the SIPP, to increase the tax-free 
cash available. 
In March 2016 Mrs Ms SIPP was opened with another provider, that Ill call Provider S. And 
in early April she began to take an income from the SIPP by way of flexible drawdown. From 
early April onwards Mrs M began to recycle £300 of income she was taking from the SIPP 
back into it. 
In June 2017 Provider S wrote to Mrs M to say that two income payments shed taken from 
the SIPP in February and May had been processed incorrectly as tax-free cash. It said these 
were taxable income, as shed received her tax-free cash the previous year.
On 8 August 2017 Provider S wrote again to Mrs M about these, and other, payments. It said 
it hadnt been able to treat the February and May payments as taxable income because Mrs 
M didnt have enough in her savings post pension to cover the payments. It also said that 
shed taken a single income payment of over £25,000 in May 2017 which it couldnt re-
process for the same reason that her savings pot couldnt support it. Provider S asked Mrs M 
to return an overpayment of £2408 which included the £225 and £815 payments. But as a 
gesture of goodwill it reduced the amount by £50. It wrote again on 29 August saying it 
hadnt had a reply, and if it didnt hear from her by 12 September it would pass her case to 
its debt recovery team. 
On 11 September Mrs M complained to Provider S about both the advice to recycle pension 
income that shed been given. She said the sole basis for the SIPP was to access the money 
early, post age 50 and that is what the financial adviser shouldve acted on. She said it was 
clear she needed completely flexible access to the money. Recycling was pressed by the 
financial adviser to allow further tax-free cash and it was never mentioned this would have a 
different retirement date. She asked how its systems could allow her to withdraw money she 
allegedly wasnt entitled to. She said she didnt have the money it was demanding and her 
husband had recently been made redundant. In response Standard Life said:
It couldnt see any issues with its financial advice. 
The overpayments to her were an administrative error by Provider S but it still 
needed her to return the funds.
£300 would be fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble caused and if she 
accepted the offer the amount she owed would be reduced by that amount. 
It would work with her about the method of repayment. 
 
After a further email from Mrs M, Standard Life increased the compensation offered to £500. 
But otherwise it stood by its advice and again asked her to contact it concerning repayment.
In early October 2017 Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. 
There were lengthy exchanges with our adjudicator and Mrs M over the advice to recycle. 
Ultimately our adjudicator was unable to agree that Mrs M hadnt been properly advised. 
Mrs M asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
On 18 May I issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, my provisional 
decision is that Mrs M wasnt adequately advised in relation to the recommendation that she 
consider recycling her pension income. Ill explain why.
But before I do so, I think it would be helpful if I say that Im only going to deal with the 
issues that I think are relevant to my decision. Ive looked very carefully at the lengthy 
exchanges between Mrs M and our adjudicator, and at all the representations made by Mrs 
M and by Standard Life, but I dont think I need to comment on every point raised in order to 
fairly and reasonably resolve this complaint. And I also wont set out at any length our 
adjudicators opinions and views given during his exchanges with the parties. This is 
because I look at the complaint with fresh eyes, and am not bound by any findings or 
recommendations that our adjudicator makes.
In December 2015 Standard Life produced a suitability report for Mrs M and her husband. Its 
recommendations for Mrs M were that she:
transfer two defined benefit pension plans with a combined value of just over £70,000 
into an Active Money Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and move the funds into 
income drawdown;
take a tax-free lump sum of nearly £20,000 (Standard Life have confirmed that this 
was a typographical error and should be nearly £18,000), leaving post-pension funds 
of just over £53,000; and
consider drawing an income of £3,600 gross a year from the post-pension fund and 
re-invest it in the pre-pension part of her SIPP, since shed confirmed she didnt 
require an income from her pension fund.
 
The suitability report indicated that Mrs Ms objective was to access tax-free cash from her 
pensions in order to reduce her and her husbands mortgage. At the time the report was 
prepared Mrs M was 51 years old. The normal minimum pension age (the age at which 
pensions can be accessed) is 55, but the advice to transfer would enable Mrs M to access 
the monies in her pensions from her protected pension age of 50. Mrs M had a protected pension age of 50 as before 6 April 2006 her staff pension scheme allowed her the option of 
taking her pension benefits at 50.
On 18 December 2015 Mrs M signed a declaration which, among other things, said that 
shed read and understood the suitability report and it accurately reflected her circumstances 
and objectives.
From April 2016 onwards Mrs M took out £300 per month as income and then re-invested it 
back into the SIPP, a total of £4,800. The effect of the recycling was that the normal 
minimum pension age of 55 applied to it. Mrs M wouldnt be able to access the recycled 
money until she was that age. But at 55 a quarter of the recycled cash would be able to be 
taken as tax-free cash.
Mrs M is adamant that the restriction on access until 55 wasnt explained to her. She says 
she made it clear she wanted completely flexible access to her cash from 50 and that she 
wouldnt have recycled the income if shed realised she wouldnt be able to access it until 55.
Having looked carefully at the December 2015 suitability report, Im satisfied that it doesnt 
make it plain that Mrs M wont be able to access any recycled income until she is 55.
Many of Standard Lifes earlier responses dealt with the advice to transfer, rather than the 
specific aspect concerning income recycling. It did point us to the key features and SIPP 
application that it said showed that funds couldnt be accessed until 55. However, I accept 
Mrs Ms comments to us in which she said she was told to disregard the reference to age 55 
in such documents, since she had a protected pension age of 50 and Standard Life didnt 
produce documents specifically for such individuals. Logically, this must be the case, since 
the central reason for the transfer was to maintain the protected pension age of 50 and the 
SIPP application, key features and terms and conditions all related to the SIPP being 
opened for that purpose.
So the key document I need to consider is the suitability report. Standard Lifes position can 
be summarised as follows:
The Standard Life adviser took reasonable steps to ensure his recommendations 
were suitable based on the customers objectives.
The adviser provided a copy of the report, supporting documentation and 
key features documents which all help explain the aims, benefits, risks and explain 
any possible disadvantages. Mrs M had a responsibility to raise any concerns, and 
didnt.
Mrs M confirmed she didnt require any income so re-investment (recycling) was 
advised.
Mr M was a knowledgeable customer and it is fair and reasonable to assume he 
wouldve read the documentation provided and wouldve had a greater understanding 
of this in relation to their objectives
 
Ive looked carefully at the December 2015 suitability report. At p 11 it says:
'As you have confirmed that you do not require an income from your pension fund, I          
recommend that you consider drawing an income from the post-pension fund and re-invest 
this into the pre-pension part of your SIPP.'
It is not at all plain to me how Mrs M couldve realised or deduced from this that she wouldnt 
be able to access recycled funds until after 55. Ive looked at the description of pre and post 
pension funds in the terms and conditions for the SIPP. I dont think Mrs M wouldve easily understood from them, or understood at all, that this meant the pension age for the recycled 
monies (which became pre-pension funds) were given a new pension age (the age at which 
the monies could be taken) of 55.
Standard Life imply that this doesnt matter, because the suitability report indicates that the 
recycling recommendation was based on Mrs M not requiring an income from the pension 
fund, and Mrs M didnt raise any concerns about the suitability report.
Mrs M says she always said she needed unrestricted access to the monies in the SIPP from 
50. She also says that she didnt raise any concerns with the advice, because she didnt 
understand it to restrict access on the recycled funds until 55.
I dont think it is clear from the Suitability Report that Mrs M didnt want to take an income 
from the SIPP before 55. And the recycling recommendation didnt indicate as a 
disadvantage that she couldnt access recycled funds until 55.
Im also not inclined to give weight to the occupation of a spouse in considering whether the 
advice was clear in respect of Mrs M. It was Standard Lifes obligation to advise Mrs M, and I 
dont think it is reasonable to expect that Mr M would explain to Mrs M the significance of 
statements in the advice whose significance Mrs M maynt have appreciated. I note also that 
Mr M disputes he is a knowledgeable customer.
Taking all of this into account, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint about the advice to recycle 
income. This is on the basis that the advice wasnt clear about the fact that she wouldnt be 
able to take recycled monies until 55.
I now have to consider what, if any, compensation Standard Life should pay to Mrs M. I note 
that £500 was offered in relation to the complaint as a whole, but I consider that offer related 
only to the administration failings which I deal with in another decision. This is because 
Standard Life didnt acknowledge there were any deficiencies with its advice.
I dont think Mrs M has suffered any financial loss from being unable to access the recycled 
monies until 55; it is likely to be quite the opposite. This is for two reasons:
a. The income drawdowns of £300 per month that were recycled into the SIPP went 100% 
back into the SIPP without any withholding of tax. Normally income payments from a SIPP 
are subject to the withholding of tax at the consumers marginal rate of tax. Assuming Mrs M 
was in the 20% tax bracket, this wouldve meant that tax of 20% wouldve been withheld 
each month. But since pension contributions also benefit from tax relief at the consumers 
marginal tax rate, the relief effectively cancelled out the tax.
b. It enabled Mrs M to take 25% of the recycled monies as cash when she turned 55, which 
she did. (Note from ombudsman - this should have said 'tax-free cash')
While I cant be certain that Mrs M wouldve accessed all the monies before 55, I do think 
Mrs M was inconvenienced by having lost the chance to access all the monies before 55. I 
propose to tell Standard Life to pay Mrs M £200 for this inconvenience. I appreciate Mrs M 
was also distressed and inconvenienced by the requests to repay the recycled monies, but I 
deal with this in my other decision.
My provisional decision was that Standard Life should pay Mrs M £200 for her 
inconvenience.
Mrs M provided a joint response to both my decisions. She didnt comment specifically on 
my provisional decision in relation to the advice received. She did make various comments about what she saw as the aggressive conduct of Standard Life in relation to her complaint, 
and that it sought to shift blame to her husband.    
Standard Life commented that:
There were numerous references to when Mrs M could take income in the SIPP key 
features, which the adviser and  Mrs M had  discussed, so she should have been 
aware that it was a new pension contract that couldnt be accessed until 55, but was 
flexible enough that she could stop recycling. This is also backed up by the fact that 
the adviser and Mrs M  agreed 55 was suitable for illustrative purposes, so there 
must have been discussion about this.
It agreed and accepted  my comments about not giving weight to Mr Ms occupation 
and that it was its obligation to advise Mrs M, but as a senior sales manager dealing 
in pensions it still thought it was  fair and reasonable to assume that Mr M was a very 
knowledgeable person and would have fully understood the 55 rule and discussed 
the likely implications of this with his wife. 
 
It concluded by saying that, having considered all that has happened and to help bring this 
long, on-going case to a close for all parties, it was happy with my  proposal that it pay Mrs 
M £200 for the inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also thought very carefully about the 
comments of the parties on my provisional decision. Having done so, I still think my 
provisional decision is the right one, for the reasons I gave there and included above, so I 
dont propose to change it. 
I understand that Mrs M feels Standard Life's behaviour has been poor in relation to both its 
advice to her and its handling of the complaint. But my role isn't to punish a business, it's to 
resolve individual complaints. 
I don't agree with the comments on my provisional decision made by Standard Life. I dont 
believe that the references in the SIPP key features to when Mrs M could take income 
wouldve meant she should've been aware the recycled cash couldnt be taken until 55. Ive 
set out in my provisional findings why it's unlikely Mrs M would've considered the references 
to age 55 to be relevant in the context of the fact that she was transferring a pension with a 
protected pension age of 50 into the SIPP, and the intention was to maintain that protected 
age, and to take income from 50.  Standard Life was unable to provide  the SIPP documents 
with a reference to age 50, so she was told to disregard the reference to age 55.  I don't 
think Standard Life's argument is supported by this evidence, quite the contrary. 
Im also not prepared to find that it was fair and reasonable to assume Mr M wouldve fully 
understood the 55 rule and discussed the likely implications with his wife. At the very least, 
there isnt any evidence that entitles me to assume he wouldve discussed the likely 
implications with his wife, even if I assume he was a knowledgeable person who understood 
the implications. I make no such assumption, since I dont need to decide that point. 
In any event, as Standard Life has indicated that it is happy with my proposed decision and 
Mrs M hasnt specifically objected to it, I see no reason to change it. So for the reasons 
given in this decision and in my provisional decision, my final decision is as set out below. 
 My final decisionMy final decision is that Standard Life Client Management Limited must pay Mrs M £200 for 
her inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman