DRN-3178609
Complaint
Ms A says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly led her to believe that she had more funds 
than she did available which led her to accidently overspend by almost £500.
Background
In August 2020, Ms A made a payment for approaching £500 with an online retailer. Ms A 
checked her online banking before the payment had been processed and saw that she still 
had just over £500 in funds available to spend. As this was the case, Ms A spent these funds 
over the course of the next day or so. However, when the payment to the online retailer went 
on to be debited Ms A ended up being close to £500 overdrawn. Ms A was unhappy and 
complained.
Lloyds didnt uphold Ms As complaint. It said the payment was processed when the retailer 
requested the funds and thats why this transaction wasnt reflected in Ms As outstanding 
balance when she checked it. Ms A remained dissatisfied and referred her complaint to our 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms As concerns. He didnt think Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Ms A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Ms A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms As 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Lloyds is correct in saying that it is only able to process a payment and debit an account with 
the corresponding amount once the payment is requested by the retailer. And, in this case, 
there appears to have been a short delay between Ms As purchase and the funds being 
requested by the retailer. But, in any event, I cant see that Lloyds delayed matters or did 
anything wrong here.
Notwithstanding this, Ive also thought about what Ms A has said about being disorganised 
and thinking that she had the funds to spend. But Im afraid that Im not persuaded by this 
argument given what shes also said about the funds being more than half her income. In 
these circumstances, I cant see how Ms A could reasonably have believed that she still had 
£500 in funds available, given shed already made a purchase for almost that amount and 
she didnt have an overdraft either. 
I do sympathise with the position Ms A has told us shes found herself in. I realise that 
money is tight for her. But its only really fair for me to uphold a complaint when a business 
has done something wrong. And in this case Lloyds appears to have processed Ms As card 
payment, which it isnt in dispute she authorised, when it was requested by the retailer. And 
as Ms A received the goods in question and appears to have kept them, even after this 
dispute, I cant reasonably say that Lloyds isnt entitled to, or shouldnt, expect her to pay 
back the funds she now owes.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Ms As complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Ms A. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like to remind Lloyds of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration. Id strongly urge Lloyds to keep this in mind 
should it intend to collect the outstanding balance remaining on the account and its the case 
that Ms A is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman