DRN-2142301
The complaint
Mr H has complained that esure Insurance Limited declined a claim he made under his 
home insurance policy for damage to his roof following a storm.
All reference to esure includes contractors employed to handle the claim.
What happened
Mr H contacted esure in February 2020 to report damage to his roof which he said had been 
caused following a recent storm. esure asked Mr H to obtain two quotes for the repairs to the 
roof and send them to esure to consider. 
In March 2020 Mr H called esure to say hed obtained estimates to repair the roof for 
between £1,800 and £2,000. Due to the sum quoted, esure said it would instruct a surveyor 
to inspect Mr Hs roof  to clarify the cause of damage and confirm if it was covered under 
his policy. 
Mr H submitted a claim online for the damage to the inside of his home due to the water 
ingress from the roof. esure instructed a contractor to deal with this claim.
The contractor discovered that the roof repairs had already been carried out. So they asked 
Mr H to provide photos of the roof before it was repaired to consider his claim. On reviewing 
the photos, the contractor  and esure -  said this showed the roof was damaged due to 
wear and tear. As Mr Hs policy with esure excludes cover for damage caused by wear and 
tear, esure declined Mr Hs claim and didnt cover the costs for the roof repair. 
Mr H complained to esure. He said it had misinformed him about the claims process. He felt 
it should have instructed a surveyor earlier to inspect the roof damage. But esure didnt 
agree. It said it hadnt misled Mr H into believing his claim was accepted and correctly asked 
him to get quotes first. It couldnt have known that a surveyor would be required to inspect 
his home until it received the quotes to better understand the nature of the damage. 
Mr H asked us to look at his complaint. He said he kept the roof in a good state of repair. He 
wanted esure to reimburse him for the costs he paid to have his roof repaired. 
Our investigator considered the three questions we ask when we look at storm damage 
complaints. These are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered. 
Our investigator didnt think there had been storm conditions on or around the date Mr H 
said the damage occurred. So he thought esure had acted reasonably.
Mr H didnt agree. Mr H feels esure hasnt dealt with his claim fairly. He said it carried out a 
desktop review of his claim without visiting the property. So Mr H wants an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has raised new complaints which our investigator explained will need to be dealt with 
separately. So I dont intend to comment on those issues in my decision.
Mr Hs policy with esure has a very common term which says it excludes cover for damage 
caused by a gradual deterioration or wear and tear. So when a claim is made, an insurer 
needs to be satisfied that the claim is valid and meets the terms of the policy. Insurance 
policies are intended to provide cover for specified perils, rather than for anything that might 
happen to a property. Anything outside of these perils is an uninsured loss and so wouldnt 
be covered by the policy.
I think it was reasonable for esure to ask Mr H to obtain two estimates for the repairs to the 
roof in order to consider his claim. Once Mr H provided this information, esure said the next 
step would be to instruct a surveyor to inspect the roof. I understand that Mr H was keen to 
get the repairs done. But I cant say that esure acted unreasonably here or misled him. 
Local weather conditions for the week up to the date Mr H reported the damage didnt report 
wind speeds or rain levels that would constitute storm conditions. So as the answer to our 
first question is no. 
The repairs to Mr Hs roof were carried out before a surveyor could inspect it. So I think 
esures decision to consider the claim by relying on photos Mr H took of the roof before 
repair was reasonable. I dont think there would have been any benefit in physically 
inspecting Mr Hs roof once the repairs had been done, as the damage being claimed for 
had been put right. The photos didnt show signs of storm damage, but did show signs of 
gradual deterioration to the roof.
I understand how disappointed Mr H will be with my decision. But taking everything into 
account, I think esures decision to decline his claim was reached in a reasonable way. So 
Im not asking esure to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman