DRN-4284114
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the service provided under his boiler and central heating
insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr P held the policy with British Gas covering the boiler, central heating plumbing and
drainage of a rental property for a number of years. The policy included an annual service of
the heating system. The last annual service was carried out in February 2022 and the policy
ended in May 2022.
In December 2022, Mr Ps water cylinder started to leak and had to be replaced. Mr P says
his engineer told him the cylinder had leaked because the sacrificial anodes on the cylinder
had not been properly checked each year, in accordance with the manufacturers
instructions, during the annual service. Mr P says the cylinder had a 25 year warranty and
was around 14 years old when it failed, so would have lasted a lot longer if British Gas had
serviced it properly, as it should have done. Mr P wants British Gas to reimburse him the
cost of the replacement cylinder, which was around £2,000.
British Gas says it only carries out a visual check of water cylinders during the annual
service, as they are not always easily accessible, and would not do anything more unless
there was a problem. British Gas also said that checking the anodes was not part of its
annual inspection. British Gas says the pictures provided by Mr P show slight corrosion to
the anodes, which is normal and the leak was from the immersion element, which can be
independently replace. The external corrosion on the anodes would not have warranted any
action under the policy and they would not have needed to be changed. British Gas also said
in its response to the complaint that it was for Mr P to check the anodes.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. He concluded that the policy terms which set
out the British Gas will carry out an annual service of the boiler and cylinder did not make
clear that this would not be in accordance with the manufacturers instructions. The
Investigator thought this was a significant restriction on the cover being provided, which
should have been made clear to Mr P when he took out the policy.
The Investigator didnt think that British Gas should pay the whole cost of replacing the
cylinder, however, as he considered it likely it would have needed replacing at some point
but the evidence supported that this had happened sooner than otherwise would have been
the case. The investigator therefore recommended British Gas pay £200 compensation for
the trouble caused to Mr P.
Mr P does not accept that the £200 compensation recommended by the Investigator is
enough. Mr P said that failing to follow the manufacturers instructions is a serious safety
issue and British Gas should not be working on systems in this way. British Gas provided
continuous cover for the cylinder for over 13 years. It is not a British Gas policy to not follow
manufacturing instructions, it does so in other cases but not in his case, so it was an
oversight and failure to comply with the contract.
British Gas has not specifically said it does not accept the Investigators assessment but said
again it does not undertake annual services on cylinder only a visual check of condition and
working safety devices. It said Mr Ps was a specialist cylinder and any further requirement
would be in the manual.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision on the matter in July 2023, in which I said the following:
Mr Ps policy states that it includes an annual service, which is defined as follows:
annual service - a check in each period of agreement to ensure that your boiler, gas
appliance or central heating, and ventilation is working safely and in line with relevant
laws and regulations.
British Gas seems to accept that this annual service would include the water cylinder 
but [says] that it would amount to a visual check for any obvious issues only.
Mr P provided an email from the cylinder manufacturer dated 3 March 2023, which 
says the sacrificial anodes are anti-corrosion anodes and that they should be 
serviced each year by draining the cylinder and removing the anodes.
Mr P also provided a photograph of a label attached to the cylinder, which says:
IMPORTANT: No longer than every 12 months, the magnesium anti-corrosion
anodes must be checked by your service engineer/installer.
Mr P has said that British Gas does carry out services in accordance with 
manufacturers instructions in other cases but just didnt do so in his case. However, 
British Gas has said that it is its normal procedure to only carry out a visual check on 
cylinders and I have no reason to doubt that.
It seems clear to me that British Gass definition of an annual service is not the same 
as the manufacturers definition or most peoples general understanding of what an 
annual service would entail. I cant see that British Gas has made it sufficiently clear 
to its policyholders that the annual service would involve only a visual check of the 
water cylinder and would not be in line with the manufacturers instructions. I 
therefore think its misleading to call it an annual service, when that has a different 
meaning to most people. I dont think the policy is clear enough.
Given this, I have to consider what impact this has had on Mr P.
Mr Ps engineer said there was visible corrosion externally around the anodes and 
the direct immersion heating element. This indicated that the cylinder had not been 
maintained and serviced as per the manufacturers instructions to remove anodes 
yearly and replace them if showing any signs of corrosion... Due to the incorrect 
annual servicing, it is my opinion that this caused the premature failure of the cylinder 
and it needed to be replaced.
I am therefore satisfied that if the cylinder had been serviced properly in the 13 years 
it was covered by British Gas, it would probably not have needed to be replaced for a 
number of years.
However, I can only hold British Gas responsible for that if I think Mr P would have 
acted differently, had he known that the British Gas service was limited to a visual 
inspection. 
If Mr P had known his cylinder was not going to be serviced properly under the British Gas policy, he might have arranged additional annual services for the cylinder 
himself, or taken steps to check the anodes himself. Mr P might also have changed 
to a different provider. It is difficult to be sure now what Mr P might have done but I 
think it is likely he would have arranged a check at some point in the 13 years, if not 
every year and this would likely have extended the lifespan of the cylinder somewhat. 
It may not have extended it to the full warranty period or beyond, however.
Having considered everything, I dont think I can therefore reasonably ask British Gas 
to pay the whole replacement cost of the cylinder but I think British Gas should pay 
towards the replacement. I think a total of £600 is reasonable to reflect the possibility 
that Mr P would have had the cylinder serviced in accordance with the 
manufacturers instructions, if he had known the limitations of British Gass service; 
and that it is likely the life of the cylinder might have continued without needing to be 
replaced for some time longer. It is not an exact science but I consider this to be 
reasonable having considered everything.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
British Gas does not accept my provisional decision. It has said again that the annual service 
it provides is a check that the central heating system is working safely. It quoted parts of the 
policy that state it is not responsible for loss or damage caused by the failure of parts of the 
central heating system, unless it has caused it. 
British Gas also says that if Mr P was aware the manufacturers instructions for his cylinder, 
he should have brought this to its engineers attention during the annual services. It could 
have serviced the cylinder but this would have been chargeable as it would take two to three 
hours to drain it down and replace the anodes. British Gas says Mr P has only been made 
aware of the situation with the cylinder by his own engineer.  It therefore does not agree it is 
reasonable to require it to pay £600 towards the new cylinder. 
Mr P does not accept my provisional decision either. Mr P says the total cost of the 
replacement cylinder was £2,160. The lifespan of the cylinder should have been 25 years. It 
is only impossible for me to determine how much longer his cylinder would have lasted  
because of British Gass failings and it is unfair to penalise him for this. He has lost around 
12 years of lifespan of the cylinder, so should get the equivalent proportion of the 
replacement cost (which he works out as being £1,036.80), rather than the £600 I proposed. 
In addition, Mr P says this would only be compensating him for the financial loss caused to 
him and not the inconvenience and stress of having to deal with the situation, which includes 
having the tank fail and leak just before Christmas, when it was particularly difficult to find 
any plumbers. All of this could have been avoided, if British Gas had serviced his cylinder as 
it should have done. 
Mr P also says that if he had known British Gas did not service the cylinder in accordance 
with the manufacturers requirements, he would have cancelled the cover and gone with 
another provider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.British Gas says that if Mr P had wanted the cylinder serviced in accordance with the 
manufacturers instructions he should have told it about this and it would have been 
chargeable as a separate service. It suggests he did not know that it needed servicing in this 
way until after the leak. 
I agree it is likely Mr P did not know about the manufacturers instructions for his cylinder 
until after it leaked. I say this because it seems to me he would have raised the issue before 
if he had known that it should have been drained and the anodes replaced each time; and he 
told us that he does not recall any engineer attending to service the heating system saying 
the anodes had been replaced. 
However, having said that, Mr P took out this policy in order to insure his central heating 
system. The policy states it will carry out an annual service of the central heating system, so 
this implies it would be in accordance with manufacturers instructions and Mr P would 
therefore have had a reasonable expectation that the cylinder was being properly checked 
(even if he didnt know exactly what that check should involve).  As stated in my provisional 
decision, I think British Gass statement that it carries out an annual service is misleading 
when it means it will do a visual check only. 
In order to determine if this caused any loss to Mr P, I have to consider what Mr P would 
have done differently, if he had known British Gass version of an annual service involved a 
visual check of the cylinder. This is the fair way to determine the actual impact on Mr P of 
British Gass failure to make clear the extent of the checks it was carrying out. 
As stated in my provisional decision, it is difficult to be sure now what Mr P might have done 
but I have to decide what I think is most likely. 
Mr P says that he would have taken cover with another provider if he had known. However, I 
dont have any evidence of other providers that would have serviced the cylinder in 
accordance with the manufacturers instructions or, the cost of any such cover. I have also 
not seen any evidence of the cost of having the cylinder serviced separately. It seems likely 
to me that there would have been some additional cost to Mr P, if he had found cover 
elsewhere that would have included this, or if he had the cylinder serviced separately 
himself. 
There is also a possibility that Mr P would not have done anything differently, if he had been 
told that the service carried out by British Gas would have involved a visual check of the 
cylinder and further investigation if anything spotted. Given, I think it is likely Mr P was not 
aware of the manufacturers instruction to drain the cylinder and replace the anodes each 
year, I think there is some room for doubt.
However, having considered everything, I remain of the opinion that it is likely that at some 
point in the 13 years before the cylinder leaked, Mr P would have arranged a proper 
check/service of the cylinder even, if not every year, and this would likely have extended the 
lifespan of the cylinder somewhat. 
I do not think that it is possible to say exactly how long the cylinder would have lasted, as 
this would have been subject to a number of variables not just the lack of servicing. Having 
considered everything, I still consider that a contribution to the cost of the replacement is 
appropriate. In my provisional decision I explained why I could not calculate exactly what loss was  
caused to Mr P and that I had to make a rough and ready estimate of the financial loss to 
him. 
Mr P says he should not be penalised for the fact it is difficult to say for sure what would 
have happened, as this is due to British Gass failings. I appreciate it is difficult for him to 
prove what he might have done and how much longer the cylinder would have lasted after 
the event. However, I have to consider the fair and reasonable outcome of the complaint and 
that requires me to consider the evidence as it is available now and determine what I think is 
most likely to have happened if British Gas had been clearer about the checks it was 
carrying out. I remain of the opinion that the sum of £600 is appropriate. 
Mr P also says this does not compensate him for the trouble the leak caused. However, I am 
upholding the complaint and making an award because I think it is likely that his cylinder 
would have lasted a while longer before failing, if British Gas had been clearer about the 
checks it was carrying out. But it has not been established that British Gas caused it to fail, 
so I do not think it is responsible for the trouble caused by the fact of the cylinder failing, only 
that this happened a while sooner than otherwise might have been the case. I therefore still 
consider £600 to be appropriate compensation overall. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr P the
sum of £600 towards the cost of the replacement water cylinder.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman