DRN-4223174
The complaint
Mr H complains about The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) and the way they settled the claim he made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by NFU. Unfortunately, in November 2022, 
Mr Hs car was stolen and unable to be recovered. So, he contacted NFU to make a claim 
on his policy.
NFU accepted Mr Hs claim. And, as Mr Hs car was less than two years old and hed owned 
it from new, he was eligible to claim under the New Car Replacement (NCR) aspect of the 
policy. NFU passed Mr Hs claim over to a separate company, who Ill refer to as V, who 
were instructed to process claims of this nature. But V returned to NFU, explaining the model 
and specification of Mr Hs car had been discontinued and so, was unable to be ordered. 
Because of this, they didnt think it was possible for a new car to be provided to Mr H.
So, NFU instead offered to pay Mr H the purchase price of his stolen car. And they included 
the monetary incentives available to Mr H at the time of purchase, resulting in a total 
settlement of £89,444 less the applicable policy excess. But Mr H was unhappy about this, 
so he raised a complaint.
Mr H was unhappy that NFU were refusing to arrange for a new car replacement. Mr H 
explained that, due to inflation, car prices had increased since he purchased the stolen car 
and because of this, he didnt think NFUs settlement based on this price placed him back in 
a fair position. And he felt hed provided reasonable alternatives of a similar model and 
specification, on the advice of the manufacturer. Mr H explained hed found models that 
were available to be purchased straight away that were not subject to the lead time of 1  2 
years. So, Mr H wanted NFU to arrange this replacement. 
NFU responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They thought they had acted fairly, 
and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, when offering to settle the claim by 
paying Mr H the purchase price of the car, plus any incentives he received at the time. They 
explained the NCR scheme included within the policy was only applicable where the same 
model, make and specification could be sourced. And they didnt think it was on this 
occasion. But NFU did accept they couldve arrived at this decision sooner and that they 
couldve been more proactive in communicating with Mr H. So, they paid Mr H £200 to 
recognise any upset and inconvenience this caused. Mr H remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They focused on Mr Hs main 
area of dispute, which centres around the way the claim was settled. And they thought NFU 
had acted fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, when offering to 
settle the claim based on the purchase price as they were satisfied a replacement of the 
same make, model and specification wasnt available. So, they didnt think NFU needed to 
do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree. He maintained his view that the way NFU had offered to settle the claim 
left him without the funds to purchase a like for like replacement, due to the impact inflation 
had on car prices. And he expressed his belief that the terms and conditions of the policy 
were unclear and ambiguous, so he didnt think it was fair to rely on the wording of these. Mr 
H also referred to wording hed found setting out our services approach to undervalue of 
settlement claims, which he felt were appropriate in his situation. As Mr H didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr H. I recognise his car was 
stolen through no fault of his own and I appreciate the upset and inconvenience this would 
no doubt have caused. I also recognise Mr H took out the insurance policy with NFU to 
assist him both practically and financially in situations such as the one he found himself in. 
So, when Mr H felt he was left financially disadvantaged by the way NFU offered to settle the 
claim, I can understand why hed feel unfairly treated and wish to raise a complaint.
But for me to say NFU should do something more, such as arrange for a new car 
replacement on Mr Hs behalf or to pay him an additional amount to settle the claim, I first 
need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied they failed to 
act in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when offering to settle the claim as they 
did. Or, if I think NFU did act within these, Id need to be satisfied NFU acted unfairly in some 
other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
It's not disputed by either Mr H or NFU that, due to the age of Mr Hs car and the fact it was 
stolen and not recovered, he qualified for the NCR element of the insurance policy he held. 
Ive seen the policy terms and conditions, which explain that, where a claim qualifies, NFU 
will replace your car with a new car of the same make, model and specification (subject to 
availability in the UK) or pay you the purchase price of your car. I think this makes it 
reasonably clear that under the NCR section of the policy, NFU can replace the car or pay 
the purchase price. And as NFU have offered to pay the purchase price, plus an additional 
amount to recognise the incentives Mr H made use of at the time of purchase, Im satisfied 
they acted in line with the terms of the policy when making this offer. And because of this, I 
cant say they did anything wrong when doing so.
But as Ive explained above, Ive also thought about whether NFU have acted fairly. And I 
acknowledge Mr H doesnt think they have, as he feels NFU were able to reasonably replace 
his car with a similar alternative and, as the NCR section is titled as New Car Replacement, 
a replacement is what he should fairly receive.
While I do recognise Mr Hs point of view, and I dont doubt he expected to receive a 
replacement car, I dont think this means NFU have acted unfairly here. Ive seen V, acting 
on behalf of NFU when looking to replace Mr Hs car, confirmed that the exact make, model 
and specification of Mr Hs car was no longer available. And on top of this, any lead time for 
a new order with the manufacturer was at around 1-2years.
And while I appreciate Mr H feels, on the advice of third-party advice, there are cars of the same make but differing models and specifications that are a reasonable alternative, I dont 
think this means NFU shouldve looked to replace Mr Hs car with one of these. The terms 
and conditions clearly explain that, under the terms of the policy, NFU would look to replace 
Mr Hs car with a new car of the same make, model, and specification. And emphasis must 
be placed on the word same. The terms do not state a car similar, or a reasonable 
alternative. So, I would only expect NFU to replace Mr Hs car if the same make, model and 
specification was available. And neither party dispute that the car was no longer available at 
the time the claim was made.
The terms also explain that this replacement option would be subject to the availability of the 
car in the UK. And again, its not in dispute that it wasnt at the time of the claim. So, as an 
exact replacement wasnt available, I think NFU were fair to turn to the alternative option 
available to them under the NCR section of the policy.
And when calculating the purchase price, I think NFU have acted more than fairly by 
considering the discounts and incentives available to Mr H at the time of purchase, to ensure 
he was placed back in the same financial position he was in, before he purchased his 
original, insured car. And because of this, I dont think NFU need to do anything more on this 
occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. And I recognise Mr H will feel as 
though he remains disadvantaged, due to an increase in car prices caused by inflation and 
other external factors. While this isnt the fault of Mr H, neither is this the fault of NFU. The 
policy NFU provides is intended to place Mr H back in the same position he was in before his 
car was stolen. In this situation, as a replacement couldnt be sourced, I think NFU were fair 
to ensure Mr H has access to the same funds he had when he purchased the stolen car, 
less any applicable excess for making a claim on the policy. Were NFU to pay Mr H more 
than this amount, I think they would be placing him in a position of betterment, and this isnt 
something Id expect them to do.
And while Mr H has referred to the increasing price of used cars, and the real time valuation 
of his car at the time it was stolen, I note at the time of the theft his car had done around 
32,000 miles. Because of this, and general depreciation, Ive seen the engineers report for 
the total loss which stated Mr Hs car was valued at around £66,000. So, I think NFU have 
acted fairly when ensuring Mr Hs claim was processed through the NCR section and that 
this was in Mr Hs best interests to do so, as our service and standard industry approach 
would expect.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about The National Farmers' 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman