DRN-2717309
The complaint
Mr W complains that Evolution Lending Limited unfairly reported arrears information to credit 
referencing agencies in relation to his secured loan.
What happened
In 2018 Mr W borrowed £20,000 from Evolution and the loan was secured on his home.
Mr W has told us he was hospitalized, having contracted covid-19. Evolution agreed a six-
month payment deferral period starting in May 2020. But when the payment deferral period 
ended, Mr W was still furloughed on a reduced income.
During a telephone conversation with Evolution in October 2020, Mr W explained that he 
couldnt make his contractual monthly payment but would redeem the mortgage in 
approximately one month because he was selling his property.
Mr W redeemed the mortgage towards the end of February 2021. By that time, hed missed 
four contractual monthly payments and Evolution shared this information with credit 
reference agencies.
Mr W says the reason he couldnt make payments to the loan at the end of the payment 
deferral period related to the covid-19 pandemic, so Evolution should have done more to 
help him. He complained to Evolution in January 2021.
Evolution sent Mr W its final response letter in February 2021. It said Mr W told Evolution he 
was unable to make a payment during a phone call in October 2020. It asked him for a bank 
statement to substantiate his reduced income, but Mr W didnt provide one. It said it spoke to 
Mr W again towards the end of November and he agreed to make a token payment of £100. 
But this was never received and Evolutions attempts to reach Mr W in subsequent calls 
were unsuccessful. Evolution wrote to Mr W in December confirming the arrears on the 
account and explaining that the missing payments may make obtaining credit in the future 
more difficult for him.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She found that Evolution 
acted in line with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance when it asked for the bank 
statements to assess Mr Ws circumstances to offer tailored support. And it was fair that it 
reported Mr Ws missed payments to credit reference agencies.
Mr W disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator.
To reach my decision Ive considered whether Evolution should have done more to help     
Mr W following the six months of payment deferrals it allowed him under the FCA guidance. 
And Ive considered whether it was reasonable  as Mr Ws missed payments were covid-19 
linked  that Evolution reported these missed payments to credit reference agencies (CRAs).
When the six-month payment deferral ended
Under the FCAs guidance, lenders were required to allow payment deferral to borrowers 
experiencing financial difficulties as a result of the covid-19 pandemic  for up to three-
months. The guidance was subsequently updated requiring lenders to allow borrowers still 
experiencing similar financial difficulty an additional payment deferral of up to three months  
up to six months in total.
As more than six months of payment deferral wasnt considered to be in the best interests of 
most borrowers  because the deferred payments needed to be repaid  six months was the 
most lenders were required to offer under the FCA guidance. Instead, in instances where 
borrowers were still experiencing covid-19 related financial difficulty, lenders were expected 
to offer tailored support. So, I would expect to see that Evolution did so when Mr W told it of 
his continued financial difficulty.
To offer tailored support to a borrower, a lender would need to understand the borrowers 
circumstances. Thats because it needs to make sure the support it offers isnt detrimental to 
the borrower. To gain an understanding of a borrowers circumstances, I think its reasonable 
for the lender to expect the borrower to engage with it and provide relevant information so 
that those circumstances can be assessed.
Ive seen from the transactions on the account that the sixth deferred payment on Mr Ws 
account was the one due on 1 October 2020. So, he would have been required to pay the 
one due on 1 November 2020. Evolutions contact notes say Mr W called on 8 October 2020 
saying he was selling the property. The notes say he was aware the deferral period had 
come to an end but could not make payments as hed been furloughed. He indicated he was 
aiming for the mortgage to be settled within the month.
Evolution wrote to Mr W on 21 October 2020 asking for an update on his financial status. Its 
contact notes indicate Evolution called and left messages for Mr W on 27 October and 29 
October 2020. Evolution wrote again asking for Mr W to make contact on 2 November 2020.
Mr W did make contact on 9 November 2020, saying he still couldnt make payment because 
he was furloughed. Evolutions contact notes say he was asked to provide his bank 
statement for the previous month but declined saying other lenders hadnt required him to do 
so.  Evolution sent Mr W a message on 3 December 2020 asking him to ensure a payment 
of £100 was made that day. Ive seen no indication that was ever received by Evolution.
Mr W went on to miss four mortgage payments in total. The evidence available suggests that 
Evolution made numerous attempts to discuss payment with Mr W, but Mr W wouldnt 
engage in that process. From the middle of December Mr W did start communicating with 
Evolution but that was only in relation to the settlement of the mortgage and his concern that 
missed payment markers were being added to his credit file.
Given that Evolution would have required Mr W to engage in the process for it to offer him 
tailored support, I dont think it acted unreasonably in that regard. Offering him a longer 
deferral period wasnt what the FCA guidance required and even if Evolution was to have 
considered that option, I think it reasonable it wanted to see more details about Mr Ws financial circumstances before agreeing to another arrangement. As he wouldnt provide 
them, I dont think Evolution acted unfairly.
Reporting to CRAs
The FCA guidance stated that deferred payments shouldnt be reported as missed payments 
to credit reference agencies. But it didnt say that subsequent financial difficulty resulting 
from or linked to the covid-19 pandemic shouldnt be reported.
Lenders have a responsibility to accurately report on the status of all accounts to CRAs. So, 
when Mr W missed payments on his mortgage after the deferral period ended, I would 
expect Evolution to report that accurately to CRAs. I understand that caused Mr W distress 
at the time, but I dont think Evolution acted unfairly.
Summary
 
I understand, given Mr Ws employment situation at the time, he may have had lots of 
competing priorities. But, from the evidence available, I have no reason to think Evolution 
wouldnt have offered tailored support as required by the FCA at the end of Mr Ws deferral 
period, had he engaged in that process. It was under no obligation to extend the deferral 
period and would have needed to carefully assess Mr Ws financial circumstances in any 
event.
While I know this is likely to have had a significant impact on Mr Ws credit worthiness, I 
dont think Evolution acted unfairly by reporting the status of Mr Ws account accurately to 
credit reference agencies.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Evolution Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman