DRN-2219820
The complaint
Mrs Gs complaint is about the refusal of a claim under a mobile phone insurance policy with 
Amtrust Europe Limited.
What happened
Mrs G made a claim under her policy for theft of her phone. Mrs G says she was in a grocery 
shop when she realised the phone, and a bank card that was kept in the phone case, was 
missing. She reported it to the police online. 
There was a query about the ownership of the phone, as the receipt was not in Mrs Gs 
name, but Amtrust accepted Mrs Gs explanation about this. Amtrust agreed to meet the 
claim and provided a replacement phone. Mrs G was not happy with the replacement, as 
she said it was not the same model as her insured phone. 
Amtrust said it was the same model. However, when it reviewed the claim following Mrs Gs 
complaint about the replacement phone, it asked Mrs G for proof that she had used the 
phone after she took out the policy. This is because Mrs G took out the policy with Amtrust 
online at 1.10pm on 19 February 2019 and Mrs G says the phone was stolen at 2pm on the 
same day. The timing involved caused Amtrust to doubt the claim was genuine. 
Amtrust asked for a three-way call with the network provider so it could establish when     
Mrs G had last used the phone. Mrs G said the airtime provider wouldnt do this and sent the 
evidence of the last use by letter instead. Mrs G has provided screenshots of an online chat, 
which she says proves her usage of the phone after she took out the policy.
Amtrust subsequently said it was refusing the claim, as it was not satisfied with the evidence 
about Mrs Gs usage of the phone. It says it thinks the theft took place before the policy was 
set up and Mrs G has made a fraudulent claim. Amtrust therefore cancelled the policy and 
said it will not provide cover on any policy in the future. 
Mrs G is very unhappy about this. She says she has provided proof she sent messages after 
the policy was taken out. She also provided a letter from her airtime provider which said 
there were no texts or calls made on 19 February 2019, but some mobile data had been 
used. Mrs G says the provider was unable to say what time data was used, as it is only 
calculated at the end of each day. Mrs G says she was robbed and there was a witness, so it 
is unfair to refuse the claim. She wants the phone replaced with an equivalent phone (hers 
was only 4/5 months old at the time) and compensation. 
Mrs G also says Amtrust has kept the policy excess she paid, which is unfair if it is not 
meeting her claim. Following an enquiry by the investigator, Amtrust says it refunded the 
excess, less £30 for claim costs. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter and did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld. She was satisfied Amtrust was not acting unfairly in refusing this claim, on the basis 
of the evidence available. She said the screenshots provided by Mrs G didnt show which 
phone was used to send the messages and the evidence from the airtime provider didnt 
specify the time that data had been used, so could have been before or after the time the 
policy was taken out. However, the investigator did ask Amtrust to repay the £30, with 
interest at our usual rate, as she was not satisfied it had incurred any costs due to Mrs Gs 
fault but because it had sent the replacement before investigating the claim fully. 
Amtrust accepted the investigators assessment but Mrs G has not. The matter has therefore 
been referred to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for theft or loss of a mobile phone. As with all such policies this 
cover is subject to certain terms and conditions, including that it will only cover theft of a 
mobile phone where proof of usage - after the start of the policy and before the theft of the 
mobile phone  is provided; and it will not pay for any claim where proof of usage cannot be 
provided or evidenced. 
Mrs G says the phone was in her pocket (which she says was deep and so the phone could 
not fall out). She had her hand in her pocket the whole time so she could feel her phone, 
apart from when trying to reach for something from a high shelf and then she noticed it had 
gone. Mrs G says there were witnesses to the incident. However, there is no indication that 
Mrs G, the shop staff, or anyone else saw a thief. Instead it seems that she alerted the shop 
staff that she has lost her phone, as she says she shouted out and asked for help, not that 
they witnessed a thief. So there is no corroborating evidence of the time and nature of the 
loss of the phone. 
When a consumer is asking an insurer to take their word for an incident such as this, it is 
important that there is nothing else that might cast doubt on their word. However, Mrs G is 
also asking Amtrust to take her word about the timing of the taking out of the policy and the 
loss of her phone. 
Mrs G apparently had the phone for a few months before taking out this policy. I have not 
seen any explanation as to why she decided to take out the policy on 19 February 2019 
having not been insured before. 
Mrs G arranged the insurance on line, which completed at 1.10pm and then she says she 
went to her GP surgery and then the grocery store, where the phone was then stolen from 
her pocket at 2pm. 
Amtrust is alleging that the phone was either lost or stolen before Mrs G took out the policy, 
which is why it has asked for proof that Mrs G had used the phone herself after 1.10pm.    
Mrs G provided a screenshot of a conversation via an online chat dated 19 February 2019, 
which she says is proof of usage as required. 
The first copy of this provided didnt identify Mrs Gs telephone number. Mrs G later provided 
another copy of a screenshot of the same online messages but this one had her online photo 
and her telephone number at the top. This therefore was evidence that messages were sent 
from her phone on the day of the loss. However, the time stamp on the messages show that 
they were all sent before the policy was taken out. The last message shown as being from 
Mrs Gs phone is stamped as being received (on her friends phone) at 4.59pm. The friend 
was apparently overseas at the time and Mrs G says there was a time difference of five 
hours, which she says meant this message was received by her friend at 12.59pm UK time. This may not be the precise time it was sent, as I am aware that sometimes the time stamp 
for receipt of a message is not the same as the time sent. However, it does mean that the 
message could not have been sent any later than 12.59pm UK time and therefore that it 
would have been sent from Mrs Gs phone before the policy was taken out. I do not therefore 
consider this does satisfy the terms about proof of usage. 
Overall, having considered all the evidence available, I do not consider that Amtrust has 
acted unreasonably. I am satisfied that it has sufficient cause to consider the claim to be 
fraudulent and that Mrs G took out the policy having already lost her phone and made the 
claim knowing she was not entitled to do so. 
Finally, I also agree with the investigator that Amtrust should repay the £30 it retained from 
the policy excess. Where a fraudulent claim has been made, or a policyholder makes a 
fraudulent representation during a claim, insurers have several remedies available to them. 
They do not have to meet that claim and are entitled to recoup any payments made in 
relation to that claim. Insurers are also entitled to terminate the insurance contract from the 
date of the fraudulent act. They are not allowed, however, to recoup any costs of dealing 
with the matter. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint, save that Amtrust Europe Limited should repay Mrs G the £30 
retained from the policy excess together with interest at 8% simple per annum. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman