DRN-3208634
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with their claim on 
their home insurance policy when they damaged their laptop.
References to Mr S or Mrs S will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of UKI involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to UKI.
What happened
Mrs S accidently spilt liquid on to a laptop owned by Mr and Mrs S and it failed to turn back 
on.
Mr S contacted UKI and made a claim on their home insurance policy. UKI accepted the 
claim and Mr S was charged the £250 policy excess.
UKI said that it needed to assess if the laptop was able to be repaired and if it wasnt it would 
be replaced. It said the laptop would be assessed by a UKI appointed supplier who would 
confirm if it could be repaired or not. 
The appointed supplier contacted Mr S to explain the process. It advised the passwords 
would be gathered but would only be used to do quality assurance tests once  repairs are 
done in order to make sure the systems work on the laptop, At no point would anyone be 
accessing any of the personal data held within.
Mr S was under no obligation to give up passwords, but it would not be able to undertake 
quality assurance if the laptop was to be repaired. Mr S refused to provide the passwords to 
UKIs appointed supplier as he felt this compromised the security of the data held on his 
laptop. 
Mr S complained to UKI about the request for assessment of the laptop and the need for him 
to provide passwords. He said he wanted the laptop replaced not repaired. He also 
complained that he was requested to pay the replacement excess prematurely.
As Mr S was not happy with UKI, he brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He looked into the case and said he did not 
think that UKI were being unreasonable in requiring an assessment from either its own 
appointed supplier or a detailed report from Mr Ss own specialist, before deciding if to 
replace or repair the damaged laptop. 
As Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to 
me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the details in the insurance policy documentaton and within the policy 
booklet it states 
How we settle claims
For any item of contents that is lost or damaged we will choose whether to:
Replace or repair the item or part
pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it would have cost to 
replace or repair using our own suppliers; or
make a cash payment.
I listened to the call Mr S made to make his claim. During this call UKI explained to him that 
its supplier would review the damage and see if it was repairable first. If it was found not to 
be repairable it would be replaced. 
Within the  Claims conditions section of the policy booklet it also states 
For any claim you must:
 give us any relevant information and evidence that we ask for, including proof of ownership 
or value of the lost or damaged item and written estimates for repair. You will have to do this 
at your own expense;
 allow us (or our appointed suppliers) to access or inspect the damaged items and/or 
property;
I do appreciate Mr Ss reluctance to disclose passwords. To reassure him, UKI confirmed 
that at no point would anyone be accessing any of the personal data held. It said the reason 
the password was required was to enable its appointed supplier to undertake quality 
assurance tests on repairs if it was found to be repairable.
I do not think that this request is outside the terms and conditions of the policy. Asking for 
the password is a standard request for access to gadgets, such as a laptop, so I do not think 
it is unreasonable.
I therefore think that UKI have handled this claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Whilst our investigator was looking into his complaint, Mr S said he had obtained his own 
assessment of the damage to his laptop from a high street retailer. Mr S asked if UKI would 
accept this assessment.
UKI said that it would potentially accept a high street assessment and it gave the detail of 
what information it required. It said the report should be on letter headed paper and contain 
details of the condition of the laptop, a full specification of breakdown, confirmation of cause 
of damage, extent of damage and reason it needs to be replaced.
Mr S submitted a receipt for the laptop and a non letter headed document that said the 
product is non repairable. UKI did not accept this information as it did not detail the cause 
and extent of the damage as it had requested.
It also said that the damaged laptop would still need to be sent to its appointed supplier for 
salvage before it would provide a replacement.Mr S has not submitted the information requested by UKI to accept the high street 
assessment. This has been requested a number of times since September 2021.
I consider that UKI have been reasonable in the way it has offered to settle Mr and Mrs Ss 
claim. In the absence of Mr S submitting the required report from the high street retailer, to 
progress his claim he should follow UKIs procedure and submit his laptop and passwords to 
its appointed supplier for assessment. UKI can then assess if it is able to repair or if it will 
replace the laptop.
Mr S also complains he was made to pay the required £250 excess on his policy too soon, 
as it was taken at the point he made his claim with UKI. 
During the call Mr S made to make his claim, UKI said in order to appoint a supplier it 
needed to collect the excess payment. At the time Mr S did not question this and paid the 
excess as was requested.
I think it is reasonable to accept that when UKI accepted his claim it would require the 
excess to be paid. UKI could not have known that Mr S would make a complaint about its 
claim process that would delay settlement of his claim. 
UKI have said it will refund the amount paid if the claim is withdrawn.
Therefore, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and feel that UKI have been reasonable 
in the way it has offered to settle the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman