DRN-4341690
The complaint
E, a limited company complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly closed its bank 
account leading to lost income.
E is represented in its complaint by a director, Mr E.
What happened
In 2022, HSBC carried out a safeguarding review but didnt hear back from E despite several 
reminders. HSBC extended the time to complete the review until mid-January 2023. After Mr 
E contacted HSBC shortly before the January 2023 deadline, HSBC agreed a 30 day 
extension to complete the review. Mr E then asked for more time which HSBC initially 
agreed to but then explained that it should not have agreed a further extension and closed 
Es account.
Our investigator didnt think HSBC treated E unfairly when it closed its account after giving 
more than the required two months notice. Our investigator thought there was a failure in 
service when HSBC agreed the extension in February 2023 when it didnt mean to. 
However, she noted that HSBC tried to contact E the next day to discuss the mistake. Our 
investigator recommended that HSBC pay E £50 to apologise. 
HSBC agreed to the investigators recommendation but E doesnt accept. Mr E says E was 
without a bank account between the closure on 9 March 2023 and the opening of a new 
account with Barclays on 17 April 2023. Mr E says that because of this, he couldnt take card 
payments and had to personally make payments on behalf of E.
Mr E says HSBC agreed to send him a device to allow him to access Es account online but 
the device didnt arrive. Mr E says that without this device he couldnt complete the 
safeguarding review online. Mr E says he has since found out that he could have completed 
the review by phone. 
HSBC says that the only record it has of Mr E requesting the device was in February 2023 
and that it sent one to him as part of the reactivation of Es account. HSBC says that if a 
customer cant complete the review online, it can do so over the telephone but that this relies 
on a customer explaining that it cant complete the review online. As Mr E never explained 
this to HSBC, it says it didnt discuss the alternative with him.
Mr E says hes sacrificed more than £50 so he doesnt want to accept the settlement offer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that I have summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do this but it 
doesnt mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to us.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties that E faced after HSBC closed its bank account. Mr E 
says hed been with HSBC for ten years and there had been no unusual activity on Es 
account but the safeguard review isnt necessarily triggered by this kind of suspicious 
activity. UK banks are subject to strict legal and regulatory controls which means they 
sometimes need to review customers accounts. The terms of Es account allow HSBC to 
request information. So, Im satisfied that HSBC acted fairly when it asked E to complete the 
safeguarding review. 
HSBC has provided copies of the letters that it sent to E about the review in July, August and 
September 2022. Im satisfied the letters were sent to the correct address for E. After E 
didnt complete the review, HSBC sent a notice of closure in October 2022. So, E should 
have reasonably been aware of the urgent need to complete the review. 
Despite E not engaging with the review, HSBC offered further time to complete the process. 
Once Mr E contacted HSBC in early 2023, it agreed an additional extension until February 
2023. So, I think that HSBC treated E fairly throughout the safeguarding review.
Although it was unfortunate that HSBC verbally agreed a further extension of time when it 
didnt mean to, it took prompt action to alert E to the mistake by leaving an urgent message 
for Mr E the next day. As HSBC didnt hear back, I dont find it was unreasonable to proceed 
with the account closure, having previously explained to Mr E what would happen if the 
safeguarding review wasnt completed.
I appreciate that Mr E says he couldnt complete the safeguarding review without the 
security device but HSBC doesnt have any record of Mr E saying this until the call in 
February 2023. By this time, HSBC had sent several letters about the review and had 
previously spoken to Mr E. So, I dont have enough evidence to suggest that HSBC failed to 
provide a security device to E or that it didnt give E time to complete the review before it 
closed the account.  
I agree with the investigators recommendation that HSBC should pay E £50 for the failure in 
customer service when it mistakenly told Mr E that it could give a further extension. I dont 
think its reasonable to require HSBC to pay more than this as it contacted Mr E the next day 
with an urgent message to call back. So, I think HSBC did quickly try and put things right. 
As I dont find HSBC was at fault when it closed Es account, I dont require HSBC to 
compensate E for any losses it suffered after closure. Im sorry if this comes as a 
disappointment to Mr E.
Putting things right
HSBC should pay E £50 for the failure in customer service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay E £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman