DRN-3645176
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the advice they had received from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
before making payments to a sole trader.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S hold a joint account with Lloyds. They wanted to use the services of a sole 
trader to have their garden landscaped and to pay him using their account. Prior to using the 
sole traders services, in May 2021, Mr S contacted Lloyds to request advice on how best to 
pay him, while still remaining protected in the event the work did not happen. Mr and Mrs S 
needed to make two payments, one for £4,000 and another payment for £1,845. The 
payments were for costs of materials and partial payment for the work (for the rest to be paid 
upon completion).
Mr S says Lloyds told him that a BACS payment was the safest way to proceed. So, Mr and 
Mrs S proceeded on that basis.
Mr S says the sole trader didnt complete the job and so contacted Lloyds to retrieve their 
money. They say Lloyds refused to help to return their money and to also accept 
responsibility for the advice they were initially given.
Lloyds responded to Mr S. They said that when Mr S contacted them to request advice, they 
told him it was possible his money could be recovered and that he was covered for fraud if 
he was to continue with the payment. They also said that there was a formal agreement 
between Mr and Mrs S and the sole trader, and so they are within their rights to log a civil 
dispute, and would not consider this to be a scam.
Lloyds also credited Mr and Mrs S account with £100 for the poor quality service they 
received when complaining to them.
Mr and Mrs S, unhappy with Lloyds response, referred their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator found that Lloyds needed to do more to put things right, due to being given the 
wrong advice. She said that while Lloyds had paid £100 for the service they gave, they 
needed to do more to acknowledge the incorrect information and the stress this has caused 
Mr and Mrs S. So, she said Lloyds must pay an additional £100 (£200 in total). She also said 
that, having looked at the agreement between Mr and Mrs S and the sole trader, there didnt 
seem to be another option to make payment other than a BACS transfer. And on the 
information provided, she couldnt be sure whether Mr and Mrs S would have continued with 
the payment or considered looking at other traders to start the work. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the investigators findings and feel Lloyds are liable to pay the 
full amount they had paid the sole trader. And so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought carefully about Lloyds actions, Im upholding this complaint. However, it isnt 
in line with how Mr and Mrs S would like me to. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be 
to the both of them, but I dont think I can fairly say Lloyds should reimburse Mr and Mrs S 
for the full amount of payments made. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear what has happened to Mr and Mrs S, and I can understand why Mr S feels 
their money should be returned to them. But not all cases where individuals have lost sums 
of money are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive thought about the CRM Code 
which Lloyds has signed up to and was in force at the time Mr and Mrs S made these 
payments. Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a 
customer who is the victim of an Authorised Push-Payment (APP) scam. Ive thought 
carefully about if the CRM Code applied in the circumstances of the payments Mr and Mrs S 
made and whether Lloyds ought to reimburse them under the provisions of the Code. But the 
Code is quite explicit in that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for 
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in 
some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Both Lloyds and our investigator felt the payments Mr and Mrs S made, formed part of a 
buyer/seller dispute and, as such, are not covered by the Code.
Mr S says both he and Mrs S entered into an agreement with the sole trader and this did not 
go as planned as some work wasnt carried out. But I cant safely say with certainty, with 
what I know and what the evidence shows, that the sole trader set out with intent to defraud 
them.
Mr S has been able to provide a schedule of works that were to be carried out by the sole 
trader. This schedule was provided by the sole trader and his name and contact details are 
recorded at the top. Mr S has also provided his own account of work that still needs 
completing or what he believes hasnt been completed to a satisfactory quality. Mr S has 
also been able to provide an invoice which is from before the work started, and it requested 
an amount payable of £4,000 (50% of the total budget) and for this to be paid via a BACS 
transfer to the sole trader. The invoice also says the remainder of the budget is to be paid 
upon completion of the project.
I have also seen other information provided to me. From what I have seen, the evidence 
persuades me to think this is a case of a dispute between two parties rather than a scam. 
This appears to be a case of a sole trader, potentially failing to honour an agreement, by not 
providing the work to the standard the customer expected.
That being the case, Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply in this instance. And I cant 
fairly ask Lloyds to refund the money Mr and Mrs S has lost, under the Code.
But I do think Lloyds needs to do more for the incorrect information they provided Mr S. Ill 
explain why. Mr S contacted Lloyds before making the first payment to enquire whether he would be 
protected in the event the work did not happen. Lloyds told him it was possible his money 
could be recovered and that he was covered for fraud if he was to continue with the 
payment. During that call Mr S also said he didnt believe this to be a scam in the first place, 
even when Lloyds said he would be protected in that instance.
Lloyds has acknowledged it made a mistake here and Mr S was wrongly advised. Lloyds 
accepts the advice given was too vague and didnt give the customer a correct 
understanding of the risks of making a payment to someone. So, Ive gone on to consider 
the impact their mistake had on Mr and Mrs S.
Lloyds also paid £100 to Mr and Mrs S and their final response to them suggests it is for the 
service theyve provided and for the amount of time they spent waiting for a response to their 
complaint. However, considering the impact on Mr and Mrs S for the incorrect information, I 
think a further award for the wrong information given to Mr S should also be made.
Mr S relied on what Lloyds had told him and continued with the payments he was enquiring 
about. He says he only continued with payments as reassurances were given by Lloyds. I 
appreciate Mr S feels strongly about this, but I cant be sure what Mr S would have done, 
had he been given correct information from the outset. So I must consider what I think is 
likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities.
The invoice Mr S provided us shows that the payment needed to be made via BACS and the 
sole traders account details were given. There wasnt another option or payment method 
provided. And I dont think it is likely another payment method would have been accepted, 
considering it was to be made to a sole trader. I accept cash could have been accepted, but 
this payment method is unlikely to have satisfied Mr and Mrs S requirement for a secure 
method of payment which could be retrieved if works hadnt been carried out.
I think it is more likely than not Mr and Mrs S would have continued with the payment, even if 
the correct information had been given. I say this because, having listened to the call, Mr S 
was keen to know the best way to pay the sole trader. This suggests to me, he was likely to 
pay him, but wanted to use a method which was likely to protect him the most. He says at 
times during the call, he has no reason to suggest this was a scam and acknowledges the 
sole trader has a business head on him. This suggests to me that the sole trader had built 
a rapport with him. Mr S also goes onto say if I had suspicions, I just wouldnt go ahead and 
make payment. Considering the sole trader likely didnt accept another method of 
payment, I think its more likely than not Mr and Mrs S would have continued with the 
payment via BACS.
While I accept Lloyds made a mistake on this occasion and gave incorrect information to Mr 
S, I dont think it follows that as a result of the mistake, they are liable to pay £5,845 to Mr 
and Mrs S. Mr S has explained that he had a lot of stress caused by this set of 
circumstances. And I appreciate what he has said. It is a significant sum of money and I can 
see why he is attempting to retrieve it, if possible. But I cant fairly say Lloyds are to blame 
for the stress he is under. It is more likely than not, the stress is caused by the actions of the 
sole trader and him subsequently walking out of the job he was partly paid to complete.
Putting things right
Having considered the impact Lloyds mistake has had on Mr and Mrs S, I think it is fair and 
reasonable for Lloyds to pay a total of £200 for the trouble and upset this has caused them.Lloyds may deduct any compensation they have already paid them in relation to this matter 
from the above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Lloyds Bank PLC should put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman