DRN-2346858
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the currency transfer rate which she received from Magna Financial 
Limited.
What happened
In August 2020 Mrs H instructed Magna Financial to transfer of £240,000 in GBP to EUR in 
order to complete the purchase of a house in Spain.  
Magna had been discussing currency exchange rates with Mrs H and her husband in the 
months leading up to the transfer. Based on these ongoing discussions, at the time of the 
transfer in August 2020, Mrs H expected that the exchange rate to be used would be in the 
region of 1.10.
However, when the money was transferred, Magna used a rate of 1.07 - notably below the 
rate that Mrs H was expecting - which resulted in the transferred amount received by Mrs H 
being approximately 6,000 EUR less than she anticipated.
Mrs H complained to Magna about this. Magna looked into the matter and explained that the 
reason for the difference was because the rates discussed with Mrs H and her husband 
leading up to the transfer had been the mid-market rates, and that a mid-market rate is an 
indicative rate and not the rate which is applied to the actual transfer.
Magna noted that their business model means that they were able to offer some of the most 
competitive rates on the market, and that Mrs H had benefited from these competitive rates. 
However, Magna did agree that the communication between themselves and Mrs H could 
have been clearer and offered to pay £1,500 to Mrs H by way of compensation.
Mrs H didnt think that this offer of compensation went far enough, and so referred the matter 
to our service. One of our investigators looked into this case. They agreed that Magna could 
have been clearer with regard to the exchange rate that would be used in the actual transfer, 
but they felt that the offer of £1,500 made by Magna was a fair one, and so they didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mrs H remained unhappy, so the matter was passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Hs frustration here. £240,000 is a significant sum of money, and I note 
that the purchase of the house in Spain was being undertaken because Mr H had been 
advised to move to a more comfortable climate because of health reasons. 
Its not unreasonable, then, for Mrs H to have expected Magna to be clear about the actual 
amount of Euros that she would receive and the rate that would be applied, and I think that 
Magna are correct to acknowledge that they could have done better in this regard.
While I can understand that Mrs H wants Magna to reimburse her to what she would have 
received had the mid-market rate, which she was quoted, been used to affect the transfer, I 
dont feel that this would be a fair outcome in this instance. The reason I say this is because 
Mrs H would almost certainly not have been able to obtain that rate as an actual rate from 
any currency transfer provider on the market. 
All providers employ an effective transfer rate that is lower than the mid-market rate, and it is 
this margin between the mid-market rate and the actual rate used that enables such 
companies to operate profitably. As such, had Mrs H tried to find a company that would use 
the mid-market rate given as the actual rate to be used for the transfer, it is very unlikely that 
this search would have been successful. 
From what Ive seen, Magnas rate was competitive, and better than the currency exchange 
rate that many large banks were offering at that time. All things considered, while I do 
understand why Mrs H may think she was given an unfavourable exchange rate by Magna, I 
think that when compared to the actual rates that she could have gotten elsewhere, Mrs H 
did receive an exchange rate from Magna which provided a better than average return. Its 
also notable that Magna didnt charge any fees. 
I have also considered whether, had Mrs H been made aware of the actual rate that would 
be used, she would still have gone ahead with the transfer. On the basis of the information I 
have, I think its more likely that Mrs H would still have transferred the money in such 
circumstances. This is because there was an important need for the money  to purchase a 
house in Spain needed for health reasons  and so I believe that it is unlikely that Mrs H 
would have delayed or abandoned the purchase of the house because of the transfer rate 
being lower.
To summarise, while I can understand why Mrs H is unhappy, I cant fairly say that shes 
suffered any financial detriment in this instance, and I dont feel that its fair to ask Magna to 
increase the level of compensation that they have already offered for Mrs Hs inconvenience. 
This is because, as explained, Mrs H would almost certainly not have been able to obtain the 
mid-market rate as the actual transfer rate to be used from any currency transfer provider. 
Magna have sent information which shows that the rate applied was competitive in the 
market at that time, and so I think it is fair to say that Mrs H benefited from a competitive 
transfer rate, even though she was expecting a better one. And I dont think that Mrs H 
would have chosen to not transfer the money had she been aware of the actual rate to be 
used. 
Finally, Magna have acknowledged that they could have explained matters more clearly, and 
made an offer of £1,500 to Mrs H for the inconvenience this caused. I believe this offer of 
compensation is a fair one in these circumstances for the reasons I have explained above.  
My final decision
My final decisions is that Magna Financial Limited should pay Mrs H £1,500 in line with their 
original offer of compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman