DRN-3491341
The complaint
Mr G complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VW) terminated his hire 
purchase agreement early, requiring him to settle the outstanding balance in full or return the 
car.
What happened
Mr G entered into a hire purchase agreement with VW for a used car in July 2020. By 
September 2021, Mr G had arrears of more than £500, and VW made the decision to 
terminate the finance agreement early.
Mr G told us:
VW terminated the agreement far too quickly and it shouldve agreed to continue 
accepting his reduced monthly payments,
he needed the car for work, so VWs actions forced him to borrow the money from 
elsewhere in order to pay the outstanding amount so that he could keep the car;
he wants VW to resurrect the finance agreement, refund him the money he paid to 
settle the outstanding balance and allow him to return to making his regular monthly 
payments.
VW rejected this complaint. It said when Mr G first contacted it about his financial difficulties, 
it agreed to provide him with some breathing space for 60 days  it would take no further 
action whilst Mr G arranged his finances. It agreed to accept nominal payments from him 
during this period, but it asked him to make contact with it again on or before the end of May 
2021.
VW says Mr G made a nominal payment, but he didnt contact it as hed been asked to do. 
And although VW called Mr G and sent him SMS messages, it wasnt until it issued a Notice 
of Default that Mr G contacted VW at the end of June. At this time, VW says it gave Mr G a 
further 60-day breathing space, but his July, August and September payments were returned 
because the Direct Debit mandate had been cancelled.
VW says once this second breathing space had expired, it tried to contact Mr G by phone, 
text and email, but it wasnt successful, and Mr G didnt get in touch with it. VW says it 
terminated the agreement in September and issued confirmation of this to Mr G. It explained 
that the termination couldnt be reversed, and the default would be reflected on Mr Gs credit 
file.
VW says it made an exception in this particular case; it gave Mr G some additional time to 
find the funds needed to clear the outstanding balance so that he could retain the car. It 
confirms this was successful and it updated the credit reference agencies accordingly.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
hed considered very carefully whether VW had treated Mr G fairly when hed made it aware 
of his financial difficulties. He explained hed looked at what it had done and compared this 
with the rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the standards detailed 
by the Lending Standards Board (LSB). In conclusion, he was satisfied VW had followed its 
own rules as well as the requirements and guidelines laid down by the FCA and LSB and he 
didnt think it needed to do anything more.
Our investigator also explained that this Service couldnt consider a complaint about Mr Gs 
warranty because this hadnt been taken out with the credit agreement. He advised Mr G to 
discuss this directly with the dealership from whom he purchased it.
Mr G disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says that he wants his credit file 
correcting to reflect the fact hes paid off the balance in full because its currently impairing 
his ability to get a mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having considered all the evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. To be honest, theres very little I can add to what hes 
already said, and I think hes set out the position very clearly in his view and subsequent 
correspondence.
Mr Gs complaint is essentially about how he was treated after he contacted VW to explain 
he couldnt maintain his monthly payments. The rules and guidance relevant to Mr Gs 
agreement are set out in the FCAs Consumer Credit handbook (CONC). For ease of 
reference, Ive highlighted some of these below.
CONC 7.3.4R states that a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears 
difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. And 7.3.5G explains that 
examples of forbearance could include deferment of payment of arrears or accepting 
token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow a customer to 
recover. 
CONC 7.3.6G states that where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a 
firm should allow the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt. 
CONC 7.3.14R states that a firm must not take disproportionate action against a 
customer in arrears or default. 
CONC 3.3.1R states that communications from firms must be clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Now I accept that Mr G doesnt agree but having considered what both parties have said and 
submitted Im satisfied that VW acted in line with the requirement to treat customers in 
arrears fairly. In coming to this conclusion Ive had regard to the fact that:
VW tried to engage with Mr G on a number of occasions and through a number of 
mediums  when Mr G didnt answer its telephone calls, it sent SMS messages. And 
when it received no response to these, it emailed him.
VW provided a number of periods of breathing space to support Mr G in stabilising 
his finances.VW accepted reduced nominal payments of £50 from Mr G for a number of months.
VW kept Mr G informed of the effect that these steps would have on his credit file, 
and it made him aware of a charity that provides free expert debt advice.
It was only after Mr G fell more than £400 into arrears that VW issued a Notice of 
Default, and this was only after receiving no response from Mr G about the arrears 
and missed payments.
Although it terminated the finance agreement and sought recovery of the car, VW 
then gave Mr G some flexibility to allow him to raise money from other sources so 
that he could repay the outstanding balance and as a result retain the car.
Finally, Ive also considered Mr Gs comments about his credit file. But I have to tell him that 
VW was legally obliged to accurately report these things to the credit reference agencies. 
So, I cant ask it to amend the credit file because I dont think its done anything wrong. And I 
dont think it needs to do anything more.
Ive noted Mr Gs concerns that his credit rating has been affected. He says its having an 
effect on his ability to secure a new mortgage. But I cant say with any certainty that the 
arrears and Notice of Default on this hire purchase agreement are the sole reason for this.
Mr G might, however, be interested to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his 
credit records. The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity, in this case 
Mr G, to add any explanatory circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take 
into consideration when making lending decisions. And if he wishes to do this, Mr G should 
contact the credit reference agencies directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman