DRN-3306054
The complaint
Mr M complains about Zopa Limited holding him liable for a loan he says he didnt take out.
What happened
In July 2019, a loan was taken out in Mr Ms name with Zopa for £10,000.
Mr M says he didnt take this loan out. Mr M had a close friend, who Ill refer to as Mr X. Mr X 
owned a business and approached Mr M for help. Mr M explained that Mr X told him that he 
and his business partner had an issue with spending limits, so asked Mr M if he could 
transfer money into his account and Mr M to pass them on. Mr M agreed. Mr M explained to 
our service that he trusted Mr X a lot. He was a close friend of his and supported his family 
while Mr M was in hospital.
Mr M received £10,000 into his account and transferred £9,500 out in three separate 
transactions. £500 was retained by Mr M in his account.
In October 2019, Mr M noticed that two payments had been made out of his account to 
Zopa. He didnt know what the amounts were for  so he contacted Zopa to dispute them. It 
appeared an unauthorised individual took out a loan in Mr Ms name.
Mr M initially told Zopa he didnt know who took out the loan. Mr M has explained to our 
service that he asked Mr X about it and that resulted in him losing contact with him. Mr M 
didnt have any concrete evidence to confirm it was Mr X who took out the loan, but given 
the circumstances surrounding what actually happened, it seems more likely than not, that it 
was Mr X. Mr M reported the issue to Action Fraud and the Police.
Zopa investigated things but didnt agree to write off the loan. They said theyd carried out 
sufficient checks and as they had no evidence Mr Ms bank account had been compromised, 
they thought he must have been aware of the loan because hed transferred the loan funds 
on to somebody else. Zopa held Mr M liable for the loan and the repayments.
Due to non-repayment, the loan defaulted, and this was reflected on Mr Ms credit file. Mr M 
said this caused him severe detriment - and has continued to be an issue for him by having 
a mortgage application declined in 2021 because of the information recorded by Zopa.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He thought that some of the information included 
on the loan application was incorrect, and Mr Ms story about what had happened was 
consistent. Our investigator thought Mr M should have been more cautious when offering to 
help Mr X, but on balance thought he was a victim. Our investigator asked Zopa to remove 
the default and any adverse credit from Mr Ms credit file, write off the loan amount and 
refund Mr M any payments hed made towards the loan  less the £500 which Mr M kept.
Zopa didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
In November 2021, I let Zopa know my initial thoughts in an attempt to resolve things 
informally. I explained that I hadnt seen enough evidence to satisfy me that theyd carried 
out sufficient checks. I noticed the loan application stated Mr M was in full time employment 
earning £28,000 a year  but Mr M had provided evidence to show he was at University at 
the time. 
Zopa responded and said Mr Ms personal details which were stated on the application was 
correct, and the income passed the credit reference agency checks. They thought theyd 
carried out enough checks and therefore didnt agree to write off the loan.
Mr M also provided me with further evidence to show that his initial mortgage application 
was declined because of the information on his credit file in relation to this loan.
In December 2021, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
Did Mr M apply for the loan?
Section 83 Consumer Credit Act 1974 outlines that a debtor under a regulated consumer 
credit agreement shall not be liable to the creditor for any loss arising from the use of the 
credit facility by another person not acting, or to be treated as acting, as the debtors agent. 
In simple terms, Mr M cant be held liable for a debt that another person, not acting on his 
behalf, took out. 
Taking the above into consideration, I must first concludeon the balance of probabilities 
whether the loan was applied for by Mr M, or an agent acting on his behalf.
Based on the evidence Ive received I think its more likely than not, Mr M didnt apply for the 
loan himself. I say that because:
While the loan application held Mr Ms correct personal details such as his date of 
birth, this information would have been easily accessible  especially to somebody 
Mr M classed as a close friend.
The employment and income information stated on the loan application was incorrect 
and Zopa havent been able to supply any substantial evidence to show this passed 
their checks.
Ive seen evidence from the University Mr M attended that he was a student in full 
time education at the time the loan was taken out  and therefore Im more 
persuaded that the salary and employment information stated on the application was 
incorrect. I also havent seen any evidence of a salary income on Mr Ms bank 
statements.
Mr M has given a consistent and persuasive version of events of how he came to 
receive the money in his account. Mr M was expecting money to be paid into his 
account so he could help his friend, Mr X, with his business payments. I have no 
reason to disbelieve Mr Ms version of events.
Mr M transferred majority of the funds on shortly after receiving them into his 
account. This makes his story more plausible. I say that because in light of the 
reasons he was given by Mr X for making the payments, Im persuaded that Mr M 
wouldnt have sent the loan funds to the fraudster had he not received it into the 
account first.
Mr M explained that Mr X said he could keep some of the money as a thank you  
and Mr M did keep £500 of the loan funds.
Zopa have confirmed that they didnt send a welcome letter, or anything similar to 
Mr Ms home address. The phone number and email address used on the application 
didnt belong to Mr M so Im satisfied Mr M wouldnt have been aware a loan had 
been taken out in his name.
As soon as Mr M did become aware of the fraud, he contacted Zopa. Mr M also 
raised a case with the Police and Action Fraud. These are actions I would expect to see of somebody who had fallen victim to identity theft.
Based on all of the evidence Ive received, I think its more likely than not an unauthorised 
individual applied for the loan in Mr Ms name. They were able to do this due to being a close 
friend of Mr M and knowing a lot of his personal information. Mr M also supplied his bank 
details to his friend, Mr X, and Im more persuaded that Mr Ms testament that he thought he 
was helping a friend was true. Mr X was a somebody who Mr M trusted. This isnt unfamiliar 
when dealing with complaints involving fraud. 
Considering all the above information, Im satisfied that Mr M neither applied for, nor agreed 
to, the loan in question. I do recognise he benefited from some of the loan funds - £500 and I 
therefore find it reasonable that he is held liable for this part of the loan only considering the 
relevant legislation. 
How should Zopa put things right?
Zopa should put Mr M back into the position he would have been in, had the loan not been 
approved. While I recognise Zopa shouldnt be held liable for Mr M trusting Mr X, I think they 
should be held liable for not carrying out sufficient checks. If Zopa had investigated and 
verified Mr Ms income or employment details, I think its unlikely they would have approved 
the loan  and therefore Mr M wouldnt have found himself in this position.
Because of that, I think Zopa should remove any adverse data from Mr Ms credit file  
including removing the default registered against him in relation to this loan. Zopa should 
also write off the remaining loan amount and refund Mr M any payments hed made towards 
it  less the £500 which Mr M retained himself. To recognise the loss of the use of these 
funds, Zopa should also add 8% simple interest to the amount they refund Mr M. This should 
be calculated from the date the money was taken from Mr M up to the date Zopa refund him.
The impact on Mr M has been ongoing. Mr M has provided evidence to show that an initial 
mortgage application was declined in August 2021 because of the information held on his 
credit file by Zopa. Having considered this evidence, Im satisfied that Mr M would have been 
approved for a mortgage which held monthly payments of £739.93 based on a two-year 
fixed term with a total amount of £1096 in fees, had it not been for the adverse information 
held by Zopa. The mortgage Mr M was approved for, consisted of monthly payments of 
£1,016.33 on a two-year fixed term, with a total amount of £1,659 in fees. The total 
difference in cost of the two mortgages totals £6,633.60 more in monthly payments across 
two years, and a total £563 extra in fees.
The mortgage in question was a joint mortgage  and therefore, I can only reasonably 
consider half of these excess costs when deciding how Zopa should put things right. 
Therefore, I think Zopa should reimburse Mr M half of these costs to reflect his share of the 
mortgage payments. I therefore think Zopa should pay Mr M a total of £3,598.30. 
I also think Mr M is owed some compensation for the distress and inconvenience this 
situation has had on him. Im likely to suggest a compensation payment of £1,000 to be paid 
in addition to what I have suggested above. I consider this is a fair reflection of the distress 
caused to him by Zopa continuing to hold him responsible for a loan somebody else took out 
without his permission, commonly referred to as identity theft.
So, in summary, I thought Zopa Limited should:
Remove any data from the credit reference agencies in relation to this loan,
Write off the remaining amount of the loan,
Reimburse Mr M any monies he has paid towards the loan, minus the £500 which he 
benefited from,Calculate 8% simple interest on the amount they refund Mr M in relation to the 
amount paid towards the loan. They should calculate this from the date the money 
was taken to the date they refund.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa Limited to withhold income tax from the 
above-mentioned interest. Zopa should give Mr M a certificate showing how much is 
taken off if Mr M asks for one.
Pay Mr M £3,598.30 to recognise the impact this situation has had on his mortgage 
payments.
Pay Mr M £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision. In summary, he said he was largely in 
agreement with the recommendations but wanted the impact this overall situation had on his 
studies to be considered too. He feels this whole ordeal led to him underachieving in his 
most important year of his studies.
Zopa responded and had some additional questions. In particular they wanted to know why 
Mr M didnt hold any evidence of his relationship with Mr X, and they wanted to see the 
evidence that Mr Ms mortgage rate had been affected solely due to the Zopa loan in 
question. In response to this, Zopa pointed out that the concerns regarding Mr Ms credit file 
which resulted in a higher interest rate being given for his mortgage, referred to the number 
of searched Mr Ms mortgage advisors conducted and an arrears notice on a different 
financial commitment.  In summary, Zopa didnt agree they should financially contribute to 
Mr Ms mortgage or pay compensation.
I raised these issues with Mr M directly. He said that he and his partner had a mortgage 
advisor and the only reason multiple searches were carried out when applying for the 
mortgage was to see which lender would allow a mortgage to be approved with a fraudulent 
loan on his file. He also explained the arrears notice related to an error made by his bank 
which had elapsed by the time he applied for the mortgage. Mr M didnt have any additional 
evidence to share. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still consider the complaint should be upheld. Ive explained further below.
I appreciate Zopa have concerns about the lack of information Mr M holds in relation to his 
relationship with Mr X. I can appreciate why they feel this way but its not unusual for 
individuals to expect somebody who they class as a close friend would defraud them in this 
way. And therefore, I can appreciate why Mr M doesnt hold excess information about Mr Xs 
actions at the time  and thats because Mr M didnt suspect anything was amiss. Having 
said that, Mr M has provided our service with a reliable and realistic testimony  and this has 
been consistent throughout the lifetime of the complaint. Where evidence is missing, as it is 
in this case, Ill need to make my findings based on what I think to have most likely 
happened in the circumstances. In order to uphold it, I must be persuaded that, on balance, 
it is more likely than not that Mr M didnt apply for the loan himself  or allow a third party 
(likely, Mr X) to apply for it on his behalf. Ive explained in my provisional decision and above 
why, based on all of the evidence Ive received, I think its more likely than not an 
unauthorised individual applied for the loan in Mr Ms name. As neither party has supplied 
any additional evidence in support or against this finding, I see no reason to depart from it. 
Im therefore satisfied that Mr M didnt apply for the loan himself  or allow somebody else to 
apply for it on his behalf. I think if Zopa had carried out sufficient checks, its unlikely the loan 
would have been approved.Zopa raised an argument in relation to the way they should put things right. I thought Zopa 
should pay Mr M money to recognise the impact this overall situation had on his mortgage 
payments. Zopa rightly pointed out that the mortgage was a joint one  and therefore, Mr Ms 
sole credit couldnt be considered on its own for the overall mortgage rate. Mr M has 
explained his partner had an exemplary credit rating  and I have no reason to disbelieve 
him. This is also supported by the evidence Mr M has supplied to explain why an increased 
mortgage rate was entered into. This evidence only relates to Mr Ms credit  and the 
discrepancies linked to Mr M, and therefore Im persuaded that Mr Ms partners credit isnt 
relevant. Ive also considered the redress for the mortgage payments to be only 50% to 
reflect Mr Ms half of the mortgage payments only. 
Ive also thought about the numerous searches carried out by Mr Ms mortgage broker  and 
the arrears status held on Mr Ms credit file. Mr M has explained his mortgage broker carried 
out numerous searches to try and find a lender who would offer the mortgage despite the 
information held by Zopa. Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive received and the 
individual circumstances of this complaint, that is correct. However, Ive also thought 
carefully about the arrears status. Mr M has explained that he had a letter from his bank to 
confirm the arrears notice was caused by an error with them refunding a payment and it 
would have elapsed by the time Mr M applied for the mortgage. Unfortunately, Mr M hasnt 
been able to provide me with a copy of this letter. Hes explained it was a physical letter and 
he didnt obtain an electronic copy. I consider it is unlikely for a mortgage rate to be 
increased based on one payment in arrears for a communication company. Therefore, 
based on the circumstances of this complaint alone and the evidence Ive seen, Im more 
persuaded that the mortgage rate has been affected by the default and loan recorded by 
Zopa. 
Putting things right
Overall, I have seen no compelling evidence to support that Mr M applied for the loan 
himself or authorised it to be taken out in his name. It appears the fraudster took advantage 
of Mr Ms trust, and the lack of verification checks carried out by Zopa and was able to apply 
for the loan without Mr Ms knowledge. This is commonly referred to as identity theft.  
Because of that, Zopa should write off the debt balance and clear all information relating to it 
from Mr Ms credit file.
Zopa have continued to chase Mr M for the debt despite his arguments against it. I think this 
has caused a significant amount of stress and anxiety, especially during Mr Ms studies  in 
addition to the distress caused by the fraudster in taking out the loan in the first instance. 
The impact this situation has had on Mr M has been ongoing  with his mortgage payments 
being significantly affected. While I appreciate this isnt directly Zopas fault, I consider if they 
carried out sufficient checks when the loan was applied for, Mr M wouldnt have found 
himself in this position. And therefore, I consider Zopa are responsible for compensating Mr 
M further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Zopa Limited to:
Remove any data from the credit reference agencies in relation to this loan.
Write off the remaining amount of the loan.
Reimburse Mr M any monies he has paid towards the loan, minus the £500 which he 
benefited from.Calculate 8% simple interest on the amount they refund Mr M in relation to the 
amount paid towards the loan. They should calculate this from the date the money 
was taken to the date they refund.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa Limited to withhold income tax from the 
above-mentioned interest. Zopa should give Mr M a certificate showing how much is 
taken off if Mr M asks for one.
Pay Mr M £3,598.30 to recognise the impact this situation has had on his mortgage 
payments.
Pay Mr M £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman