DRN-4268832
The complaint
Mr D complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited didnt pay for all the repairs to his 
vehicle following a claim on his breakdown repair policy.
What happened
Mr D had a breakdown repair policy that was underwritten by Acromas. In February 2023 he 
made a claim after he experienced issues with his car. Acromas accepted the claim and 
agreed with the repair garage to pay a maximum of £249.48, plus VAT, for the repairs. 
However the garage charged Mr D £341.74.
Mr D made a complaint as he said Acromas had sent him a text confirming it would cover 
the claim, so he thought this meant the full cost would be covered. He also said Acromas 
had unfairly priced the required parts for the repair based on market rates.
Acromas didnt uphold his complaint. It said the policy only covers the cost of parts and 
repairs at the market rate, and it bases its prices on those from a large supplier so it provides 
a fair benchmark. It also said its text message said the claim was accepted under the terms 
and conditions, and these explain that cost limits apply. 
Unhappy with this, Mr D brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
thought Acromas had acted in line with its terms and conditions and calculated its 
benchmark prices fairly. 
Mr D didnt agree. He provided screenshots of multiple retailers selling the parts for greater 
amounts than those offered by Acromas. He said this shows that it had undervalued the 
parts and therefore offered an unfair settlement. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds policy states as follows:
Claims will be assessed in line with Manufacturer or Motor Industry standard repair times 
and retail price guides. The Insurer reserves the right to fit replacement parts which have not 
been made by the Nominated Vehicle's manufacturer but are of a similar standard.
Therefore Acromas is only obliged to settle the claim based on retail price guides, rather 
than the price charged by the garage that carries out the repair.
Acromas has said that it bases its costs on a nationwide supplier of car parts. I can see that 
the supplier offers parts at the amount it would cost any customer to order, rather than 
offering trade discounts that wouldnt be available to a consumer. So I think this is a fair 
benchmark to use.
I note Mr D has provided a number of screenshots from different retailers that sell the same 
parts at higher prices. However there are often a wide variety of prices based on the 
manufacturer of the part, location of the retailer and where they position their price point. But 
just because more expensive parts are available, doesnt mean that Acromas needs to meet 
these in its settlement. The policy terms say it will base the cost on retail price guides. And 
as its shown it uses a large nationwide supplier, I think its done enough to show it had based 
its settlement on fair prices.
Ive also considered what Mr D has said about Acromas being unclear about how much of 
the cost of the repairs it would cover. And I understand why he may have initially thought the 
full claim was covered. However the text message sent by Acromas says the claim will be 
paid in line with the terms and conditions. And the terms allow it to settle the claim at retail 
prices. So I dont agree Acromas did confirm it would cover the full cost of repairs.
Further, Ive listened to the call between Acromas and Mr Ds garage. And in this Acromas 
made it clear the amount it would reimburse Mr D. It asked the garage to confirm this to Mr D 
and that there would be a shortfall. If the garage failed to do this, then I understand this may 
come as a surprise to Mr D when he received the settlement. However as Acromas informed 
the garage and asked it to tell Mr D, it did everything I would expect it to in the 
circumstances.
Mr D has also said there was an amount for sundires included in the cost charged by the 
garage. And this included a charge for the disposal of the anti-freeze. And he says that as 
this was part of the repair cost it should be covered. Hes also said that the amount of £9.99 
that was offered by the insurer for the replacement anti-freeze wouldnt be enough to cover 
the cost for his vehicle. 
In the call between the garage and Acromas, the garage makes no mention of the additional 
charges for sundries. And it confirms its cost for anti-freeze at £9.99. If the garage has 
increased and added charges on top of what it informed Acromas of, then this isnt 
something I can hold Acromas responsible for. Nor are these amounts I would expect 
Acromas to cover. Its policy requires it to pay for the repair and parts based on retail prices. 
It asked the garage to confirm what the repair was costing it and costed this up based on its 
price guides. This is what Id expect it to do under the policy and I therefore think its acted 
fairly. If the garage went on to charge Mr D a higher amount than it confirmed to Acromas, 
then this isnt something I can hold Acromas responsible for or reasonably ask it to pay.
I also note Mr Ds comments about the standard of the parts Acromas has based its 
settlement on. As well as the reviews he has sent. However this doesnt persuade me that 
the parts werent of a similar standard to the manufacturers parts. Acromas has shown it 
bases prices on a reliable, nationwide retailer. So I think this is enough to say the parts 
would be of a suitable standard, similar to that of the manufacturer. 
For these reasons, I agree with our investigator that its treated Mr D fairly in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I therefore wont ask it to do anything differently.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman