DRN-3216722
The complaint
Mr G complains about Soteria Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim following an accident 
he was involved in, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2017 Mr G was involved in a collision with another vehicle. He says he was sat in 
his parked car when it was struck by the third partys car. Mr G says the collision wasnt his 
fault, but Soteria determined it was. He says there were no passengers in the third partys 
car. And thinks the subsequent claim for injury damages to the passenger is fraudulent. 
Soteria says Mr G told it he had pulled out into the path of the other car when the collision 
occurred. Based on the damage caused and the accounts of those involved, it determined 
Mr G was at fault for pulling into the path of the correctly proceeding vehicle. It says he also 
confirmed there was a passenger in the other car. Because of this it arranged for the 
personal injury claims to be dealt with for the third-party driver and passenger.  
Mr G didnt think this was fair. He says he was parked when the collision occurred. He 
referred his complaint to our service for one of our investigators to consider. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. He thought the records from the first contact showed that Mr G 
had pulled out into the path of the third-partys car. He felt Soterias decision to proceed with 
the claim accepting Mr G as the at fault driver was reasonable. 
Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. It has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I understand this will be disappointing for him, but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
My remit here is to consider whether Soteria handled Mr Gs claim in a fair and reasonable 
manner. It isnt my role to determine who was at fault for the accident, which is a role for the 
courts. 
We asked Soteria if it could provide a call recording from when Mr G first contacted it after 
the accident. Unfortunately, this wasnt available due to the time since the accident occurred. 
Soteria was able to provide the notes taken by its call handler from that time. I have copied 
these below:
Details of discussion/review -
- Ph vehicle parked outside Wine Shop where incident happened last night; vehicle is 
unroadworthy. Advised il arrange for vehicle to be recovered to AR. Ph has the key; advised 
Road Rescue will require this so they will contact him when they are on their way so he can 
make arrangements to get key to them.
- Ph advised tp was speeding; advised unable to prove this and based on
circs this will be a fault claim.
Liability advised to PFI - Fault
Reason for Liability Decision - ph pulled away from parked position
PFI accepts liability decision - Yes
PFI Advised of impact on NCD - Yes
Explain NCD Position - Reduced.  
When this call note was made, the day after the accident, it indicates Mr G told Soteria he 
was performing a manoeuvre when the collision occurred. This is different to the account he 
later gave, which is that his car was parked at the time of the collision. I dont dispute Mr Gs 
recollection of events. But the notes taken from when he first reported the accident differ to 
his later recollection. Soteria says its notes show Mr G pulled into the path of the third-party 
car, as opposed to being stationary, when the accident occurred.    
The notes show Mr G was made aware he was considered at fault for the accident. 
I have read the claim notification form completed for the third-party driver. The description of 
the accident supports the view that Mr G was at fault. It says he had been performing a 
manoeuvre and moved into the path of the third partys car at the time of the collision. 
I have thought about whether Soteria acted fairly in accepting Mr G to be the at fault driver. 
The terms of its policy, under the general conditions section on page 18, say:
Making a claim
b) The insurer will be entitled to take over and conduct at the insurers expense in Your 
name or in the name of any other person insured by the Insurance Document:
i) the negotiation defence or settlement of any claim;
ii) legal proceedings to recover for the insurers own benefit any payment made under this 
insurance You or any other person covered by the insurance must give the Insurer all 
documentation, help and information they may need. 
The policy terms allow Soteria to decide how best to deal with the claim. In this case it 
decided to accept liability. It says it couldnt find evidence that showed the accident was 
anything but Mr Gs fault. It says its decision included consideration of the damage caused, 
which fits with its understanding of how the collision occurred. 
Mr G refers to the potential for CCTV footage being available. But he hasnt shown there 
were cameras in in place, or that footage is available. 
Soteria says it didnt investigate whether CCTV footage might be available as from its first 
contact with Mr G it considered him at fault for the accident. It understood his vehicle was 
performing a more, high-risk manoeuvre, which is why it made the decision to accept 
liability. 
I have read the report provided by the contractor Mr Gs car was sent to for inspection after 
the accident. It provides details of the incident and confirmation of the damage sustained. 
The report says:
Incident - Ph parked outside Wine Shop wanted to turn around, checked mirrors, 
started to emerge out when Tp (who was speeding) and driving up [road] behind Ph collided 
into front d/s of Ph vehicle Policyholder damage - front d/s wheel, front d/s wing, front d/s 
door won't open, key lock not working. Third party damage - front end, p/s wing mirror.This description of the how the collision occurred mirrors the description in the claim notes. I 
note Soterias comments that although there is reference to the third-party speeding, there is 
no evidence to support this. The damage to Mr Gs car was to the front on the drivers side. 
The third partys car sustained frontal damage, as well as the passenger side wing mirror. I 
think Soterias view is reasonable that the damage sustained indicates Mr G moved out into 
the path of the third-party vehicle.     
Mr G told our service he wanted to provide several eyewitness statements to support his 
version of events. He hasnt provided this information. Albeit this would be at odds with the 
questionnaire he completed for the solicitor who dealt with the third-party injury claim. In his 
questionnaire response he says there were no witnesses to the accident. I would expect a 
reasonable person to tell their insurer, at the earliest opportunity, if there were witnesses to 
an accident. From the records provided Mr G didnt tell Soteria about this. But as no witness 
statements have been provided, I havent considered this further. 
Mr G says there was no passenger in the third-party vehicle. He says the claim for personal 
injury is fraudulent. I acknowledge Mr Gs account of the accident and I understand why he 
is frustrated that a claim was paid. But, its clear Soteria instructed its solicitors to investigate 
the claim. Having done so it determined the appropriate response was to provide a 
settlement payment. Based on the evidence I dont think Mr G has shown that Soteria acted 
unreasonably.  
In summary, I dont think Mr G has shown that Soteria acted unfairly when handling his 
claim. His policy terms allow it to determine how best to do this. Based on the reasons it 
gave, I think it did so fairly. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve Mr Gs 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman