DRN-3560098
The complaint
Mr W complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard provided poor customer 
service.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has asked to speak to me. Im satisfied I have enough information from our file to 
understand his evidence and arguments to decide the complaint fairly. That, combined with 
the need to ensure impartially, means I dont consider a call necessary or appropriate. I will 
also focus on the issues which are - in my opinion - relevant to reaching a fair outcome to 
this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. It reflects the informal nature of our service.
Mr W has a credit card account with Barclaycard. In late 2020 Mr W contacted Barclaycard 
to make changes to his account. Both parties accept things didnt go well from then onwards. 
There was confusion over Mr Ws request and he was given incorrect information about what 
was happening, including him being led to believe there might have been fraudulent activity 
on the account and a balance transfer occurring. Mr W was led to believe a compensation 
payment would mean he didnt need to make a monthly repayment to his account. This 
turned out not to be the case which led to a missed repayment and the consequences that 
entailed. Mr W also made a data subject access request (DSAR). He was unhappy with a 
delay in receiving this and that call recordings were temporarily unavailable. And he was 
unhappy with issues obtaining a Covid-related payment deferral.
Barclaycard has issued several final response letters. Overall, it accepted it made mistakes, 
apologised and took steps to put things right, including: 
- confirming there had been no fraudulent activity, and a balance transfer hadnt 
occurred; 
- refunding a late repayment fee and amending Mr Ws credit file to ensure the missed 
repayment didnt impact him;
- confirming a DSAR would be processed; and
- offering him £750 compensation, in total, in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused.  
Mr W remains dissatisfied and asks me to require Barclaycard to pay him significantly more 
compensation. Im not persuaded I can fairly do that though. Dealing with businesses  and 
people more generally  isnt always smooth sailing. Here, while Barclaycard made 
mistakes, but they were of a customer service/administrative nature and were resolved quite 
quickly. 
£750 is substantial compensation. And that, combined with the other steps Barclaycard took 
to put things right, mean Im satisfied Barclaycards mistakes didnt cause Mr W a financial 
loss and he has been offered fair compensation for the impact the matter had on him.
Im aware Mr W remains dissatisfied with how his DSAR was handled. I accept it would have 
been disappointing for Mr W when there was a delay and call recordings were temporarily 
unavailable. But Im satisfied this was a result of operational challenges brought about by the 
pandemic and I note he has received his full DSAR now. If Mr W wants to pursue this part of 
the complaint further the Information Commissioners Office is the appropriate organisation 
to do so with. 
Lastly, Mr W has suggested a staff member at Barclaycard acted fraudulently. I have seen 
no evidence of this. If Mr W remains of the opinion they did, he could contact the Police 
directly  this isnt something our service can facilitate for him. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to pay 
Mr W a further £150, as it has offered, to bring the total compensation to £750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman