DRN-3728536
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) declined a claim for storm 
damage under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out their home insurance policy with QIC in January 2022. The following 
day, their garage roof was torn off during a storm and Mr S reported the damage to QIC. It 
declined the claim as it had been made within the first 7 days of cover. Mr and Mrs S 
contacted QIC after theyd arranged to replace the roof in March 2022 and submitted 
photographs of the original damage. Following a review, QIC declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy about the outcome of their complaint to QIC and made a 
complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld Mr and Mrs S complaint. She reached the 
view that the damage had been caused by the relevant storm event. She concluded that QIC 
should reimburse Mr and Mrs S for the repairs at a cost of just over £2,200. She also 
awarded compensation of £100 as QIC had initially provided incorrect information.
As QIC is unhappy with the outcome of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, the matter has been 
referred to me to make a decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main issue for me to consider here is whether QIC applied the terms and conditions of 
the policy and generally treated Mr and Mrs S in a fair and reasonable manner. I dont 
consider that it did, and Ill explain why.
My starting point in the policy itself. Ive noted that the terms and conditions of the policy 
covered Mr and Mrs Ss buildings for loss and damage caused by storm. Buildings are 
defined as any permanent structures within the boundaries of your property. The definition 
of Storm includes a gale of Force 10 or above (as defined under the internationally 
recognised Beaufort Scale) reaching wind speeds of at least 55 mph
The policy terms also state You may carry out any temporary repairs that are necessary to 
reduce any further loss or damage, but do not carry out any permanent repairs without first 
getting our written permission.
Under General Exclusions and the heading Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or 
damage, the definition includes any wear and teargradual deterioration (whether you 
were aware of it or not)..rusting or corrosion.
Mr and Mrs S couldnt understand why QIC had said that they werent covered for the first 7 
days of the policy. They were also unhappy that, once theyd arranged for the garage roof to 
be replaced, QIC then declined their claim on the basis that it considered the damage to be 
due to wear and tear. They also stated that no surveyor had come to inspect anything.
QIC accepted that there was nothing to prevent Mr and Mrs S making a claim during the first 
7 days of the policy and that this is not something that is stated in the policy wording. QIC 
considered that Mr and Mr S had prejudiced its ability to fully validate the claim and to 
confirm the cause of damage by proceeding with work. It said that this was a breach of the 
policy and due to this, it had been required to assess the damage based on images provided 
by Mr and Mrs S. Based on the photographs however, it said its surveying team confirmed 
that there appeared to be ageing of the fixings and signs of deterioration. It said this 
supported a decision to decline the claim based on wear and tear, alongside potentially 
insecure fixing of the roof to the sides. 
QIC said that it had been unable to send a surveyor to the property as the claim wasnt 
logged until after the work had been completed. It said that if it had instructed a surveyor to 
attend the property to review the damage before repairs were carried out, it considered that 
hed say the claim couldnt be covered as the proximate cause of this damage is gradual 
deterioration of the fixings. It attached images which it said highlighted this clearly, including 
a rotten section of timber still attached to the metal roof. Due to the rotten condition of this 
timber and the timber to the remaining structure, the fixings have been easily removed from 
the timber during high winds. 
Ive considered all available evidence and the submissions of both parties. QIC now accepts 
that it incorrectly advised Mr and Mrs S in January 2022 that they couldnt make a claim as 
the event happened within 7 days of the start of the policy. Im satisfied that due to this error, 
it didnt send a surveyor to review the damage. In view of the error, its also understandable 
that Mr and Mrs S didnt go back to QIC to obtain permission to carry out repairs. In these 
circumstances, I cant say that it was unreasonable for Mr and Mrs S to progress work to 
replace their garage roof, particularly as they did what they could, by taking a number of 
photographs of the damage which had occurred.
I have noted that storm force gusts of up to 58 mph were present on the date on which Mr 
and Mrs S reported that their garage roof was torn off. QIC hasnt disputed the date of the 
incident or the fact that storm force winds had been present. The extent of the damage is 
also consistent with what might occur during storm force winds at the relevant location.
As to the main or dominant reason for the roof damage, it may be the case that the existing 
roof was not in the best condition. The photographs however dont clearly indicate the extent 
of any wear and tear. Where there may be more than one contributory cause of damage, I 
am required to reach a judgment about the main or dominant cause of damage. This 
judgment must be reached on the balance of probabilities. Having noted the fairly extreme 
force of the gusts on the relevant day, and the fact that the roof appears to have been torn 
off, I consider that the storm event was the most likely cause of damage in this instance.
In all the circumstances, I cant say that QIC treated Mr and Mrs S fairly and reasonably in 
declining their claim, firstly due to an error and secondly due to reliance on a policy exclusion 
for wear and tear. I also consider that the initial error will have caused distress and 
inconvenience to Mr and Mrs S as they were left to try to resolve the storm damage without 
their insurers support.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against QIC Europe Ltd and 
require it to do the following: -- to pay Mr and Mrs S £2,204.40 less any excess amount, within 28 days of their acceptance 
of this Final Decision.
- to pay interest on the cost of repairs calculated from the date Mr and Mrs S paid this 
amount to the date of settlement, at 8% a year simple interest*
*If QIC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs S a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman