DRN-2194330
The complaint
Mrs B and the late Mr Bs representative, a claims management company (CMC), complain 
on their behalf that they were given unsuitable investment advice by Santander UK PLC 
(previously Abbey National).
In summary the CMC said the recommendations exposed far too much of Mr and Mrs Bs 
available capital to a higher risk than they were willing to take.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B were advised to invest £355,000 in June 1999, and a further £90,000 in 
August 1999, in With-profits bonds. At the time Mr B was 74 and Mrs B, 71. They were 
married with no financial dependants. Both were retired and had no outstanding debts.
Mr and Mrs B had received a lump sum from the sale of their business. It was recorded that 
their objective was to supplement their monthly income, as well as capital growth over the 
medium to long term. When asked by the CMC they say they were advised by taking risk 
[they had the] potential for better returns than [a] cash account but also potential[ly] could 
lose money.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs B complained. They said theyd been advised to invest at the wrong time 
as they were still coming to terms with the new financial situation. And theyd been advised 
to invest too much of their capital, in products that were too risky for inexperienced investors.
Santander rejected the complaint. In summary it said:
In 1999 Mr and Mrs B met with an adviser to discuss investing their savings for 
income and growth over the medium to long term.
Mr and Mrs B were provided with a funds guide, to understand and accept the risks
associated with the Abbey National With-profits fund which provided capital 
protection and smoothed annual returns.
The advisor discussed setting aside sufficient funds for planned and unplanned 
expenditure to cover short term expenditure needs.
There is a note to suggest the investments did not constitute too large a proportion of 
Mr and Mrs Bs overall capital.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. Based 
on the limited available information, she considered the investments Santander had 
recommended were suitable, because they provided the opportunity for them to meet their 
objectives, while taking a level of risk she thought they were willing to accept. She also 
thought Mr and Mrs B had been left with enough cash reserve. Mr and Mrs Bs 
representatives disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Documentation from the time of sale is important when dealing with complaints about 
unsuitable investments. They tell us what Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances and expectations 
were when they took out the bonds - including what their investment objectives and appetite 
for risk were. The CMC hasnt been able to provide any documentation from the time of sale. 
Thats not surprising given Mr and Mrs Bs investments were made more than 20 years ago. 
The very limited information Ive seen comes from Santander  it was able to send us copies 
of both application forms dated June and August 1999 and a note relating to the second 
investment. Mr and Mrs B have also provided some recollections about what they were told 
at the time. 
The application forms record the amounts Mr and Mrs B wanted to invest, and the monthly 
income they wanted to take from them. From their submissions they say this money came 
from selling their business and they wanted it to supplement their income in retirement, and 
grow over the long term.
Unfortunately, there arent any suitability reports, risk tolerance questionnaires or complete 
fact finds other than a single note dated around the time of the second investment. This says 
Mr and Mrs B had various investments/properties etc. elsewhere and have declined to give 
further information on these or their monthly income/outgoings. They confirm that they hold 
an emergency fund and have sufficient monies to cover their short-term expenditure needs.
Based on their disclosures regarding holding other investments and their overall financial 
situation, Im satisfied on balance that it was reasonable for Santander to conclude these 
investments were affordable for Mr and Mrs B.
We dont know much at all about the amount of risk Mr and Mrs B wanted to take. But they 
do now say they understood they could lose money, and were taking a risk in order to 
generate better returns than cash. As noted above, its also recorded they had various 
investments elsewhere too. The investments Santander recommended were in with-profits 
funds. While the underlying investments would have been exposed to a range of assets, the 
nature of with-profits funds and the smoothing process would have meant Mr and Mrs Bs 
money benefited from a degree of protection  from absolute losses and volatility in the level 
of return they achieved.
Mr and Mrs B invested a lot of money, and Ive thought about their points regarding investing 
so much relatively soon after selling their business. But overall, Im not persuaded this alone 
makes Santanders advice unsuitable, or means they oughtnt to have invested.
Mr and Mrs B had a stated desire to use this money to supplement their retirement income. 
Its recorded they had other wealth, and a cash reserve as well as enough to cover their 
short-term expenses. Santander recommended investments that provided the opportunity to 
generate returns allowing Mr and Mrs B to achieve their income needs over time, while 
limiting the amount of risk they were exposed to. From everything Ive seen, I dont consider 
the advice Santander gave them to have been unsuitable. It follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and the 
estate of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman