DRN-2293555
The complaint
Ms A says that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) lent to her irresponsibly. She feels adequate 
checks werent completed and she was constantly chased for payment. Ms A wants a refund 
of charges paid, her credit file to be updated and all accounts closed. 
What happened
Ms A opened a credit card account with Vanquis in February 2018 with a limit of £500. 
Over the course of the next six months, Vanquis sent monthly statements setting out the 
minimum payments due. There were a number of months where no payments were made by 
Ms A and this led to Vanquis sending a letter in June and August setting out the arrears 
outstanding and also asking Ms A to make contact to discuss the missed payments so it 
could help her with any financial difficulties she might be experiencing. Vanquis sent a 
Notice of Default to Ms A in July which said any further use of the account wasnt allowed. 
This set out a deadline for payment and also informed Ms A, if Vanquis didnt receive 
sufficient payment then it may file a default on the account with the credit reference 
agencies. Having not received any contact or payments, the account was sold by Vanquis to 
another company in September 2019.    
Ms A complained to Vanquis, she said it didnt carry out adequate checks and so it shouldnt 
have offered her a credit facility. Vanquis responded and described the checks it carried out 
and the information it took into account when opening Ms As account. It took the view it 
hadnt lent irresponsibly and didnt uphold the complaint.  
Our investigator looked into things for Ms A and felt that Vanquis had carried out adequate 
checks. She felt Vanquis decision to lend to Ms A was fair. Ms A disagreed so the matter 
has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms A will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Vanquis needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Ms A 
could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Vanquis should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern 
of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think Vanquis carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook in place at the 
time outlines that the assessment that Vanquis needed to complete shouldve been 
dependent on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of 
the credit and the consumers borrowing history. 
Vanquis is free to decide how to set its lending criteria but it should complete proportionate 
checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, I think the checks Vanquis 
completed were adequate. Ive seen that Vanquis used information obtained from a credit 
reference agency when considering Ms As application. Vanquis also took into account 
information Ms A provided in her application, this includes confirmation she is in full-time 
employment and details of her salary.
 
I think, given this was at the start of a lending relationship, the checks Vanquis carried out 
were reasonable in the circumstances. A less detailed affordability assessment, without the 
need for verification, is far more likely to be fair, reasonable and proportionate where the 
amount to be repaid is relatively small and the consumers financial situation is stable. And, I 
feel that is the case here because the credit offered to Ms A is relatively small when 
considering the salary and employment status on her application. 
 
I think reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, so Ive looked at whether 
Vanquis made a fair lending decision bearing in mind the information gathered and what it 
knew about Ms As circumstances. Vanquis say the information it gathered from a credit 
reference agency at the time of Ms As application didnt show any county court judgments 
and also a low level of non-mortgaged debt. Ive seen this information and agree it does 
record this and also shows there were no other credit cards held. The information from this 
particular credit reference agency also shows there were no defaults recorded against Ms A 
at that time. Ive seen that Vanquis then gathered information from another credit reference 
agency a month later and this did record a previously defaulted debt 21 months earlier. 
Vanquis say, although this wasnt revealed in the search with the first credit reference 
agency, in view of the time since registration, this would almost certainly not have affected 
its original decision. 
I feel this is a reasonable view for Vanquis to take given the passage of time and there being 
no other factors to suggest there were any ongoing financial difficulties. On this basis, I think 
the checks did show that Ms A would be able to sustainably repay the full amount of the 
credit within a reasonable period of time. Ms A says she was unemployed when the account was opened, and had been for the 
previous six years, so she was never in a position to afford it in the first place. Ms A has also 
provided us with a bank statement showing she was in receipt of income support during the 
month the account was opened. She also says she hasnt worked for the company listed as 
her employers, on the application, since 2012. Ive looked at the information provided by Ms 
A on her application and this notes she was in full-time employment. Lenders will often rely 
on information given by a borrower and where that information isnt in conflict with any other 
information it holds, the lender may not always carry out verification checks. That does of 
course depend on the circumstances of each case and, in this case, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Vanquis to not carry out further checks given the information it did gather 
and what that information showed. 
 
I am sorry to hear Ms A feels she was constantly chased for payments. Ive seen the credit 
card agreement signed by Ms A and this does set out the steps Vanquis will take in the 
event of non-payment. I cant see Vanquis has acted in a manner which is against the terms 
set out in the agreement. The account fell into arrears so its reasonable to expect Vanquis 
to have chased for payment. And, from the information Ive seen, I dont think Vanquis did so 
in a manner which could be considered unfair. 
Ms A has told us about her financial situation. We expect lenders to treat consumers, who 
are experiencing financial difficulty, sympathetically and positively. I feel that has been the 
case here, Vanquis did write letters to Ms A asking her to get in touch so it could offer help. I 
cant see Ms A told Vanquis about any financial difficulty so its action in reaching out to Ms A 
to offer help shows it took proactive steps. 
  
In summary, I dont uphold Ms As complaint in this matter as I feel Vanquis carried out 
reasonable checks and made a fair decision to lend.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman