DRN-4284800
The complaint
Miss H has complained Lendable Ltd is holding her liable for a personal loan she didnt take 
out.
What happened
A loan with Lendable for £15,000 was taken out in Miss Hs name on 22 September 2021. 
This was used to pay a credit card debt on 11 October 2021. At the time Miss H was in a 
relationship with someone who was financially controlling, had access to her phone and 
used her main account (with an institution Ill call N) as his own.
After the relationship ended, Miss H questioned him about a loan that had been taken out 
where she was left paying a direct debit of £421.53 a month. He admitted taking it out but 
refused to repay this. Miss H complained to Lendable that shed not taken this out and 
shouldnt have to repay it.
Lendable believed theyd done nothing wrong having undertaken the correct checks to 
ensure they could give a loan to Miss H. 
Dissatisfied, Miss H brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator 
confirmed Miss H had not taken out the loan nor signed up to the terms and conditions. 
Lendable couldnt continue to hold her liable for the loan. He noted that a relative of Miss Hs 
ex-partner had initially made three payments to Miss Hs account to cover the direct debit, 
but this stopped after her relationship came to an end.
He asked Lendable to cancel the loan and repay Miss H money shed repaid (except £1,266 
which shed received from her ex-partners family member), along with 8% simple interest.
Lendable didnt accept this outcome. They doubted the evidence provided showed she was 
in an abusive relationship as messages theyd seen suggested she knew what was 
happening. They also didnt think her evidence was credible overall and wondered why she 
hadnt progressed a complaint with the police. Theyve asked an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
Our investigator completed a view dated 22 June 2023. Ive reviewed the evidence myself, 
including Miss Hs messages with her ex-partner, and what shes told us about what 
happened.
Along with evidence supplied to us by Lendable, weve also looked at evidence from 
Miss Hs current account with N. Our investigator also separately contacted the credit card 
provider whose debt was repaid by Lendables £15,000 loan. Im satisfied this was not in 
Miss Hs name, nor is there any evidence she benefitted from the loan proceeds.
Theres no dispute that a loan was applied for on 22 November 2021. All of Miss Hs 
evidence confirms that her partner at the time used her current account as his own. He was 
unable to take out his own accounts so this sounds realistic. 
Its clear that Lendable believes Miss H knew of the loan that her ex-partner had taken out 
much earlier. They question her evidence she didnt have access to her phone, as it appears 
her partner didnt live with her full-time, so there were times she would be without him and 
more than likely did have access to her phone.
At the time the loan was taken out, however, Miss H has told us her partner was using her 
phone and had set up biometric ID. This enabled him to use her phone to make any financial 
applications and make and authenticate payments (such as the £15,000 to pay his credit 
card debt) appropriately with N.
I do accept that its likely Miss H was aware that a loan had been taken out. But at the time, 
this had no immediate impact on her financially as monthly payments of £422 were being 
made to her account until the time she split from her partner.
However Im not convinced these aspects have any impact on the overall decision Im 
making. Financially controlling behaviour has a major impact on those who suffer from it. 
Whilst Lendable believes Miss Hs behaviour may be inconsistent, I think they may 
misunderstand the pervasive and long-lasting impact of such control. I dont accept the 
evidence Lendable provided in their response to our investigators view that as Miss H was 
aware of her partners behaviour, and the credit card he held and even helped him in some 
way, this suggests she wasnt a victim of financial control.
Im also not surprised that Miss H didnt pursue a complaint with the police despite initially 
reporting this. Unfortunately we dont live in a world where women always feel comfortable 
reporting and then pursuing complaints about ex-partners.
It can take some time for individuals to get to grips with what may have happened after a 
relationship has come to an end. So I dont think Miss H unnecessarily delayed her 
complaints to Lendable and N. 
Overall the evidence suggests Miss H was a victim of fraud. A third party took out a loan in 
her name and arranged to get the monies paid into Miss Hs account. As her partner at the 
time had access to her account, he was able to transfer this which the evidence shows 
happened.
On balance I dont believe theres sufficient evidence to indicate Miss H took out the loan 
with Lendable. She didnt agree to the terms and conditions, nor did she benefit from the 
money.
Im also aware that Miss H has continued to make limited payments towards the loan with 
Lendable. Shes aware that leaving the loan unpaid, despite it not being her debt, would 
have an impact on her credit record during this period our service has been considering her 
complaint.
I appreciate Lendable is rightly aggrieved that the money was paid to a third party through 
no fault of their own. They carried out their requisite checks. They believe Miss H is at fault.That isnt the issue here. Im considering whether Lendable can hold Miss H liable and Im 
satisfied theres no basis for them to do so.
Putting things right
Lendable will need to write off the loan in Miss Hs name and stop asking her to repay this. 
They will also need to remove any reference to this loan from Miss Hs credit record.
Miss H received three payments of £422 for this loan into her account. However shes also 
paid more than this since the first direct debit came out of her account on 20 October 2021. 
Lendable will need to refund all of those payments, except £1,266, along with 8% simple 
interest from the dates Miss H was debited.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Lendable Ltd to:
Write off the fixed-sum loan agreement for £15,000 in Miss Hs name;
Stop asking Miss H to repay this loan; 
Repay the money Miss H has repaid towards this loan, except £1,266; 
Add 8% simple interest to those amounts from the dates she was debited until the 
date of settlement; and
Remove any reference to this loan from Miss Hs credit record.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman