DRN-4100069
The complaint
Mr J complains that a PruProtect plan was mis-sold to him by a financial advisor acting as an 
approved representative for Sesame Limited. To keep things simple for this decision, Ill use 
Sesame to mean them and their approved representative.
What happened
Mr J raised his complaint after a new adviser reviewed his plan. He realised it provided 
serious illness cover, rather than the critical illness cover Sesame had recommended. And 
Mr J felt more should have been done to highlight some of the options the plan offered 
around cover levels and how claims would affect what cover remained. He also complained 
that the income protection part of the plan wasnt index linked, even though Sesame had 
recommended it should be. 
In response to the complaint, Sesame said they felt the plan sold to Mr J was appropriate to 
meet his needs. They felt serious illness cover was another term for critical illness cover, 
achieving the same thing for Mr J  a payment if he developed a covered condition.
Sesame also felt it was reasonable their recommendation letter hadnt discussed the 
difference between cover levels. They felt it was for Mr J to have reviewed the full plan 
details he was given and raise any issues or questions about extra options at the time.
Unsatisfied with this response, Mr J came to us. Sesame questioned whether the complaint 
met our time limits. But I can see another ombudsman has explained that it does.
I made a provisional decision in March explaining why I intended to uphold Mr Js complaint. 
I felt Sesames suitability letter hadnt explained why primary level cover was chosen over 
comprehensive. I said this didnt appear to affect the complaint around critical illness cover, 
but did impact on the income protection Mr J took out. 
To put things right, I put forward that Sesame should pay £1,000 compensation to Mr J. But I 
didnt direct any other steps to put right financial losses that might arise. 
I also contacted the plan provider about the income protection not being indexed linked. 
They responded indicating that it should have been, but thered been a technical error. I had 
our investigator pass the details we received on to Mr J, as they showed that part of the 
complaint didnt sit against Sesame. 
Sesame replied saying they didnt feel any payment to acknowledge distress or 
inconvenience was justified in this case. They again felt Mr J could have raised an issue at 
the time, if he wasnt happy with what hed been sold. 
Mr J also wasnt happy with the remedy I put forward, feeling it didnt go far enough to put 
right what he sees as financial losses. He said hed have taken comprehensive serious 
illness cover if hed understood what it allowed him to claim for. And he said hed have 
increased his income protection cover to its maximum, each time the opportunity to do so 
arose. He also felt having comprehensive income protection would have meant he had to 
have comprehensive serious illness cover. 
The issue with the index linking of the income protection part of the plan seems to be 
accepted as an error by the plan provider, not Sesame. So Im not going to mention it again 
in this decision. Ive considered the comments from both sides, and Im now able to make a 
final decision for this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision hasnt changed from last time. So Im going to repeat the key 
details. But Ill add to what I wrote last time to show how Ive considered the latest comments 
from both side when making my decision. 
Part of Mr Js initial complaint was that he felt a critical illness policy would have covered 
more conditions than a serious illness policy would have. But looking at his plan, it appears 
to cover at least as many conditions as a typical critical illness cover policy would. Its chief 
difference is that it provides partial payments for less severe stages of the conditions that are 
covered. A critical illness policy would typically only make one payment, in line with the most 
severe levels of illness.
As I wrote last time, that leads me to conclude there isnt a detriment to Mr J from having this 
serious illness policy instead of the critical illness one Sesame recommended. 
Mr Js latest comments point to the fact he has a primary level policy. This differs to a 
comprehensive policy, in that it begins paying a benefit at lower severity levels. Mr J 
believes hes had an illness that would have qualified for a payment at the lowest severity 
level. He regards the payment he wasnt able to claim as a financial loss.
I can see Sesame failed to highlight this part of the plan to Mr J, or to explain in their 
recommendation letter why the primary level was chosen. Either option could have suited 
Mr Js circumstances, though thered likely have been a difference in the cost of the plan. 
Looking at the plan details, the primary level of cover is closest to a critical illness policy. It 
would pay out only for the most severe levels of illness. As Ive noted above, a critical illness 
policy would typically only make one payment, in line with the most severe levels of illness. 
And the loss Mr J has referred to isnt a certainty in this case. From reading the plans terms 
 particularly section A that explains the plan account, and the flowcharts in appendix 
three  if Mr Js condition develops to the higher severity levels  or if he dies  he may 
receive as much as he would have received if hed had comprehensive cover. The difference 
will be hell get fewer  but larger  payments. 
It's true other options of the plan could affect that. But I feel theres too much scope for 
hindsight to influence any speculation now about what would have been chosen, had 
Sesame fully explained how flexible this plan seems to be. 
So I come back to Sesames initial recommendation being for life and critical illness cover, 
not serious illness cover. That sort of protection wasnt unsuitable for Mr J. It would provide 
financial support for him and his family, if the worst happened. The recommendation didnt 
hold out that this plan would pay interim amounts, or pay on less critical levels of illness. And 
Mr J was happy to accept that recommendation at the time. That, together with the absence of a confirmed loss, and the fact primary cover is the closer 
match to the critical illness cover recommended, satisfies me no specific remedy is needed 
for Sesames failings in explaining exactly what illness-cover product had been sold to Mr J. 
The income protection part of the plan also had an option over cover level. Despite what 
Mr J has suggested, that doesnt seem to be affected by the choice of cover level for serious 
illness. That seems to be specifically confirmed in section A2 of the plan terms. 
In their recommendation letter Sesame said the following when summarising the features of 
the income protection cover:
The plan has a guaranteed insurability option so that you are able to increase it in 
the future as your earnings increase. This means that you can increase the amount 
of benefit without underwriting in the event of increased earnings.
Looking at the plan provisions, this isnt the case. For both primary and comprehensive 
levels of cover, Mr J could use the guaranteed insurability option if his salary increased due 
to specific events  a promotion or a change in job. But Mr Js work is such that his salary 
could simply increase due to his gaining experience and expertise. He wouldnt be promoted 
or change his job, but could expect his charging rate to increase over time.
The primary level of cover doesnt offer Mr J an opportunity to adjust the amount of income 
protected if that happens. But the comprehensive level of cover would let Mr J adjust things 
every third plan anniversary. That seems much more suitable for his job, and more in 
keeping with how Sesames recommendation letter said the plan would work. 
So I find Sesame overstated Mr Js ability to change the level of income protection when 
selling him this plan. If theyd more accurately explained how it worked, it seems likely Mr J 
would have seen the comprehensive level of income protection as better suited to his needs.
With my last decision, I was able to share details of what Mr Js plan would now cover if the 
provider had correctly applied index linking. I asked Mr J to consider whether that meets his 
needs. Mr J has responded indicating it wouldnt, and he would have chosen to increase his 
cover level at the earliest opportunity he could, and by the maximum amount available.
While I appreciate this may match with Mr Js level of earnings, Im not entirely convinced 
thats how things would have been, if Sesame had provided a more reasonable level of 
service. I say this because its a little at odds with what Mr J actually did.
I cant see he looked to increase his level of income protection cover for about 12 years after 
Sesame sold him this plan. He seems not to have even noticed that the index linking wasnt 
being applied, even though Sesame had said it would be. 
That tells me Mr J wasnt of a mind to review and change his income protection in the way 
he now says he would have. I find it more likely hed have left the cover at the level it was 
until his earnings were significantly different to his level of cover. 
With that said, comprehensive cover would still have allowed him to change his cover in a 
way he now cant. Mr Js subsequent health makes getting a top up policy too expensive, or 
possibly not an option. 
Hell instead likely need to invest against the possibility of losing his income  rather than 
insuring against it. I can see hes got a significant income, so to some extent thatll make 
saving and investing a little less of a burden than it could be for some. But its an 
inconvenience that Mr J could have avoided if Sesame had fully considered the suitability of the comprehensive level of income protection cover. 
Again though, whether theres going to be a financial loss here is uncertain. If Mr J has to 
make a claim against the plan, he may receive less than he would have done if hed had a 
comprehensive plan and chosen at some point to increase its sum assured. But if he never 
makes a claim against the plan, he gains by not having spent as much on the premiums. 
In his complaint to Sesame, Mr J wanted a six-figure payment to compensate him for the 
possible loss here. But given its possible there wont be a loss, and given Mr J can act to 
mitigate some of the impact by saving and investing his money, Im not going to agree with 
the loss claim hes raised. 
Instead, Ive decided to direct compensation for the inconvenience and the upset caused for 
Mr J by Sesames failings when selling him this plan. 
How much is a matter of opinion. But Ive factored in that this plan was meant to provide 
reassurance for Mr J about his familys finances. And that Mr Js circumstances make it 
difficult and expensive to now try to change his plan. 
Ive decided £1,000 compensation suitably balances the distress of this situation with the 
fact there are parts of Mr Js complaint that I havent upheld. Some of his upset comes from 
not having a critical illness policy, but his serious illness cover seems just as beneficial. And 
part of his upset stems from possible losses Mr J feels hell incur, rather than actual losses 
that have been incurred. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold part of Mr Js complaint about Sesame Limited. To acknowledge the 
emotional impact on Mr J, I direct Sesame pay him £1,000 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman