DRN-3652219
The complaint
Mr S complains that his credit card is regularly blocked by National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) causing him detriment, particularly on one occasion earlier this year.
What happened
Mr S holds a credit card account with NatWest. He is unhappy about the number of times 
NatWest has blocked the card in order to carry out security checks. He says this happens 
around every three months. 
Mr S says that the most recent occasion was earlier this year when he used the card to book 
a much-needed holiday for his wife. He booked this through a business which Ill call E. After 
booking, Mr S received a text message from NatWest asking him to verify the transaction. 
He says he responded straight away confirming the transaction and thought that was the 
end of the matter. He then received the tickets from E. But when his wife got to the airport, 
she wasnt allowed to board the flight because the airline said it hadnt received payment. Mr 
S says this was because NatWest had blocked and then cancelled his card.  
He says that the flights and hotel had been cancelled, so his wife had to spend almost two 
days re-booking the holiday. He bought another ticket for her to fly out the next day and paid 
for a hotel near the airport overnight. He says hed spent money on a taxi to the airport and 
had paid for tickets to an event which his wife couldnt attend in the end because of the 
problem with the flight. So he says hes out of pocket as a result of NatWests actions. He 
has also explained how stressful all this was and how he and his wife were affected by the 
situation, particularly given their circumstances at the time.
Mr S complained to NatWest. It said that the payment to E when Mr S booked the holiday 
was identified by its security system as potentially fraudulent. So, it said it stopped the 
payment and applied a block to Mr Ss card. NatWest said it had acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of his account. But it accepted that it hadnt called Mr S back as promised 
and that the customer service he received had fallen below the standard it aims to provide. It 
acknowledged the inconvenience caused to Mr S and his wife and credited £400 to his 
account as compensation.
But Mr S didnt think £400 was enough to reflect the full impact of the situation. And he was 
unhappy that NatWest didnt pay the compensation promptly. Our Investigator thought that 
£400 was fair and didnt ask NatWest to do any more. But Mr S didnt agree and asked for 
the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Investigator explained, this service can only look at complaints brought by eligible 
complainants. Here, Mr S is the eligible complainant so its the impact on him which I need to 
consider when deciding the outcome of this complaint.
I think the starting point here is that its right for NatWest to have security measures and 
procedures in place to safeguard customers accounts and prevent fraud so far as possible. 
Its for NatWest to decide exactly what those procedures are and how theyre carried out. 
What I need to decide here is whether it followed its procedures correctly and fairly.
NatWests terms and conditions allow it to refuse a transaction where it believes there has 
been fraud on Mr Ss account or that his account is at risk of someone using it to make a 
fraudulent or unauthorised transaction. NatWest says that the blocks it applied to Mr Ss 
account related to transactions which appeared similar to fraud trends it was seeing at the 
time. I think it was reasonable for NatWest to block the account on this basis and that it was 
acting within the terms and conditions by doing so.
Ive considered the number of times Mr Ss account was blocked from February 2021 
onwards. I dont think it was excessive, particularly given the number of transactions on the 
account. I understand that Mr S is frustrated by the number of checks and that they have 
caused inconvenience generally. Unfortunately, it is in the nature of checks like this that they 
do sometimes cause inconvenience. But theyre in place to protect customers and I dont 
think NatWests approach here was unreasonable.
Turning to the specific incident with the failed holiday booking, I appreciate that this was 
extremely stressful and upsetting for Mr S and his family. I have a great deal of sympathy for 
them over what happened. But, in deciding this complaint, Im only looking at the actions of 
NatWest and not any other party. I dont find it to be NatWests fault that the airline hadnt 
received payment for the flights and turned Mr Ss wife away. Ill explain why. 
Mr S booked the holiday with E on or around 26 February 2022. NatWest blocked the 
account on that day and sent Mr S a text message seeking confirmation that the transaction 
to E was genuine. Mr S confirmed within 30 minutes that it was genuine. Im satisfied that 
NatWest removed the block at that point and allowed the payment to go through. 
Mr Ss credit card statement shows that the payment to E was debited from his account. The 
date of the transaction is shown as 26 February 2022 and it was posted on 28 February 
2022. Mr S has also provided screenshots of various messages he received from E about 
the booking and the flights, dating from 26 February 2022. I find it unlikely that E would have 
sent these if it hadnt received payment. Im satisfied that NatWest sent the payment to E. So 
I dont find it to be NatWests fault that Mr Ss wife wasnt allowed to board the plane or that 
there was a problem with the booking.
Mr S says that his card was cancelled by NatWest even though he replied to the text 
message to confirm the transaction. NatWest says that his card was cancelled and a new 
one ordered on 11 March 2022.  The information it has provided confirms this. And his 
statements show one card number on the February statement and a new card number on 
the March statement, which ties in with this. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that 
Mr Ss account was active from 26 February 2022 (once the block had been removed as 
outlined above) because the statements show multiple transactions on the account from 26 
February onwards. In light of this, I dont find that the card was cancelled as a result of the 
holiday booking or that any subsequent cancellation had any impact on the holiday booking.
In conclusion, I dont find that NatWest was responsible for the problems with the holiday 
booking. NatWest has accepted that the customer service it provided in some of its dealings 
with Mr S didnt meet the standard it aims for. It has apologised and credited £400 to Mr Ss 
account. I think thats fair. The payment wasnt credited within two working days as NatWest 
said it would be. I understand it took around three weeks, which was frustrating for Mr S. But I dont think this in itself caused further detriment. And I still think its a fair amount in the 
circumstances, so Im not going to ask NatWest to do anything more. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but Im not going to uphold this complaint. It may be the case 
that he has cause for complaint against E or another third party, but Im afraid I dont have 
the power to look at that here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman