DRN-3921046
The complaint
Mr G complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2018.
QED Financial Associates Ltd is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to QED.
Mr G himself originally referred his complaint via a claims management company. However, 
Ill refer to all comments and opinions about the complaint as coming from Mr G himself.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Gs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Gs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr G was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to QED 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr G was 41 years old and married without any dependent children.
Mr G owned a home jointly with his spouse and also had an investment property.
Mr G earned around £42,000 (gross) per year but was anticipating this rising as hed 
found a new job. It seems he and Mrs G enjoyed a reasonable amount of disposable 
income each month after essential spending.
In addition to his salary Mr G said he received investment income and he had around 
£75,000 in other savings.
With almost 9 years service, the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Gs 
BSPS was approximately £113,353. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr G had joined the new TATA defined contribution (DC) pension scheme as a 
consequence of the BSPS ceasing new contributions. 
Mr G told the adviser hed like to retire early, at 55 if possible.
QED set out its advice in a suitability report in February 2018. In this it advised Mr G to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. QED said 
this would allow Mr G to achieve his objectives. Mr G accepted this advice and so 
transferred out. In early 2021 Mr G complained to QED about its advice, saying he shouldnt 
have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr G referred his complaint to our Service in May 2022. One of our investigators looked into 
the complaint and said it ought to be upheld. But QED still said it hadnt done anything wrong 
and was acting on the financial objectives Mr G had at the time. 
As this complaint cant be resolved informally its been sent to me to make a Final Decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of QED's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, QED should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Gs best interests. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Gs best interests. I have also carefully considered the final response letter from QED. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses made 
to the points contained within our investigators view. I have also recently contacted the 
parties myself to establish whether they have anything to add ahead of me making a 
decision.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
Introductory issues
Id like to start by referring to the timeline of events. Ive already described above how 
members of the BSPS were given until 22 December 2017 to decide whether or not to join 
the BSPS2. Until recently, it wasnt entirely clear if Mr G ever made that choice. I also noted 
that all the documentation about the advice sessions and transfer seemed to have been 
dated in January or February 2018 which was after the deadline. So I recently asked both 
parties for their recollections and any further evidence they had.
Ive now been sent information that confirms that Mr G was sent a Time to Choose pack in 
November 2017 and that he selected moving to the BSPS2 as his preferred option. I know 
this because Mr G was sent a confirmatory letter dated 21 December 2017 from the BSPS 
trustees. This confirmed hed made the choice and that he didnt have to do anything more 
at that stage. Ive also seen a later letter, again from the trustees, re-confirming his selection 
and explaining what would happen in the near future. So, I think its safe to say that Mr G 
definitely did opt into the BSPS2, even if only as a precaution whilst he sought financial 
advice from QED.
I should say that none of this really matters to the actual suitability of the advice  as I 
explain below, overall I think it was unsuitable. Nevertheless, it does matter to the redress 
that could be due for providing the unsuitable recommendation to transfer away: redress 
should be measured against as if the member would have joined the BSPS2, rather than the 
PPF. Even though QEDs dealings with Mr G may have predominantly been in 2018, it 
should have known he had opted to join the BSPS2 when advising him.
Financial viability 
QED referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. 
The critical yield required to match the benefits at the age of 65 in the existing scheme, was 
listed as 5.05% and for the age of 55, it was 7.23%. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses should calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
4.6% per year for 23 years to retirement (age 65). For around 13 years to retirement, which 
would mean Mr G was 55, the discount rate was 4.1%. Ive also kept in mind that the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and 
the lower projection rate was 2%. At the time, QED assessed Mr Gs attitude to risk (ATR) as 
medium.
Looked at through this prism in 2017, there may have been a chance of Mr Gs transferred 
funds growing by enough to match the critical yield if the age of 65 was used. I say this 
because the critical yield was 5.05% and the discount rate was 4.6%. So, this means annual 
growth in a personal pension plan would only have to marginally rise above the discount rate 
to reach the critical yield figure. But when considering an early retirement at 55, I think 
matching the critical yield of 7.23% was much more unlikely.
However, I think its important to say that even though reaching growth of 5.05% might have 
been possible, there was still no guarantee hed achieve this; and certainly less so that hed 
exceed it. And there would be little point in transferring only to achieve broadly similar 
benefits. Even if I accept that a growth rate of around 4.5% -to- 5% was realistic and 
possible, Id also need to still factor in the costs and fees associated with a personal pension 
plan and which Mr G didnt have in his existing BSPS, the BSPS2 or indeed the PPF. 
Its also important to say that QED itself had accepted that Mr Gs preferences were to retire 
early, rather than wait until the age of 65. So, I dont think there was any persuasive rationale 
for transferring away if we base it only on financial viability comparisons. If retiring at 55 the 
figures looked much less achievable. This is because here, the discount rate was only 4.1% 
whereas the critical yield was 7.23%. 
I therefore dont think a persuasive case for transferring only on this basis was ever made 
out. The risks of receiving lower overall pension benefits at retirement were quite high.
Although I accept that upon entering the advice sessions with QED Mr G probably did not 
view the PPF as something hed want to move to, the critical yields for this were not 
demonstrably different. Put another way, the PPF critical yield for retiring at the age of 65 
was 4.59%. For the same reasons as Ive set out above, broadly matching this growth rate 
may have been potentially achievable. But exceeding this, after the deduction of fees and 
charges, was much more uncertain. However, as Ive explained, the preference accepted by 
all parties seems to have been for an earlier retirement. And the critical yield for retiring at 55 
using the PPF comparison  this was 7.2% - was not realistically achievable either, in my 
view. 
As Ive said, the critical yield is only one aspect of assessing the financial viability of transfer 
such as this. Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, QEDs own transfer analysis said that 
even in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated 
benefits provided by the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in 
payment and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was £190,714. 
For retiring at 55, an annuity with no spouses pension, no increases in payment and no 
guarantee the cost was £147,179. These figures were much more expensive than Mr Gs 
CETV  and for a much inferior pension(s). So, in my view, these costs provide a revealing 
window into the real value Mr G could lose if he transferred out to a personal pension plan.
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, QEDs own 
figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan did not mean Mr G was more likely to receive higher 
pension benefits in the longer term. And QED was obliged to take note of the regulators 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme, that it was most likely unsuitable.Ive also considered some projections QED used to help show that if he transferred out to a 
personal plan, the funds could last Mr G well into retirement. I think most of these were 
based on growth projections using past performance, which isnt ever guaranteed. Its also 
fair to say these were not comparing like-with-like. What QED was showing Mr G were 
comparisons with plans which lacked the wider guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. 
Of course, according to QED, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. 
Rather, QED said Mr G also had other reasons to transfer away. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other reasons to transfer
Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was 
suitable for him. Ive done this by carefully assessing all the different documents from the 
time setting out Mr Gs thoughts and those of the adviser. Ive also got no doubt that Mr G 
probably went to QED with a somewhat fixed view of what he thought was a good idea - I 
think Mr G probably had a good degree of financial knowledge and investment experience. 
Mr G wanted to retire early if possible and was looking for ways this could be financially 
supported and I see that there were discussions about how he could grow his pension if he 
transferred out. 
Ive considered the fact-find and suitability report in coming to a judgement about what Mr 
Gs objectives were, and why the adviser chose to recommend the transfer to a personal 
type of pension arrangement. The following themes were given as rationale in QEDs 
suitability report for its transfer-away advice:
The adviser took note of Mr G apparently wanting to retire early, with the age of 55 
mentioned. 
25% of a transferred pension in a personal plan could be taken tax-free at age 55.
Transferring presented a broad range of investment opportunities offering enhanced 
flexibility.
There would be better death benefits if he transferred to a personal scheme. 
There were tax efficient opportunities from saving into a pension
 I have therefore considered all these issues in turn. 
Retiring early / taxing tax-free cash
I think its important to focus for a moment here on just how young Mr G actually was in 
pension terms. The evidence Ive seen is that Mr G  understandably - had no plans 
whatsoever for his retirement. Even using a very early retirement age of 55, there was still 
over 13 years left to when hed be actually contemplating giving up work and / or drawing his 
pension benefits. Whilst Im sure, like most people, Mr G probably wanted to stop working as 
early as possible, I think what he and the adviser discussed could only ever have been 
vague retirement aspirations on his part. In reality, there was no plan to retire early. 
I therefore think that everything that flowed from predicting Mr Gs retirement was flawed. 
For example, I dont think theres any real credibility behind Mr G estimating how much hed 
need to live on each month when he retired as this was so far away. The notes from the advice sessions said Mr Gs target annual income in retirement was only £10,000 per year. 
This is quite low for someone in his position although I accept he had other investments 
generating income. But I think this reflects the challenges in predicting what retirement might 
look like, so far ahead of when it was actually due. Mr G still had a significant part of his life 
ahead of him and its reasonable to assume he might encounter new things that would 
become financial priorities, which he couldnt foresee at the present time. I think the adviser 
should have noted a clear vulnerability here in advising someone still relatively young to 
irreversibly withdraw from a guaranteed pension.
I think its also likely QED promoted to Mr G that he could access more tax-free cash if he 
transferred to a personal pension plan. It implied hed be able to access 25% of his pension 
as a lump-sum and then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its usually the case that 
more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB 
scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated 
differently. But QED should have been telling Mr G at the time that extra tax-free lump sums 
being removed from a personal pension, potentially in his mid-50s in his case, also came 
with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would obviously 
decrease. 
With all this in mind, with somewhere between 13 and 23 years still left to when hed be 
actually contemplating retiring, there was simply no meaningful rationale brought forward as 
to why Mr G should have been deciding to transfer away. And doing so involved an 
investment risk which Ive showed above would probably mean lower overall financial 
benefits at retirement. 
Flexibility and control
I cant see that Mr G required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser suggested. In any 
event, flexibility was poorly defined by QED. For example, Ive seen nothing that really 
showed Mr G required changing how his retirement benefits ought to be paid. I think this was 
very hard to predict whilst still so far away from retirement age. 
Nevertheless, QED set out the estimated pension hed get under the existing scheme. It said 
hed get an estimated pension at 65 of £8,395 per year. At the age of 55, the pension 
estimated was £5,096.
QED accepted that Mr G might have needed around £10,000 per year which Ive taken to be 
in todays money  something I seriously question given the incredibly distant timescale. 
What the adviser was accepting here was that Mr G could estimate how much income hed 
need in around 13 -to- 23 years time (depending on what retirement age was used). 
However, I dont think theres anything showing Mr Gs pension entitlements and wider 
financial resources wouldnt have met his likely requirements, without any need to transfer 
from a DB scheme. I dont think QED adequately explained these things to Mr G as its 
advice simply discounted him transferring away to obtain flexibility which was poorly defined 
and which he didnt need.
Ive noted Mr G had a significant amount of savings and although he had mortgage debt, this 
was being paid down in accordance with the relevant payment plan. He also had investment 
income which appeared to come from various different sources. In any event Mr G already 
had a new and more flexible DC pension with his existing job as a consequence of the old 
BSPS scheme being closed to new contributions. And theres evidence that upon changing 
his job shortly, there was every expectation of a pension which Ive assumed would be 
contributed towards by both Mr G and his employer. Ive noted that Mr G received a type of abridged advice from QED and so there were several 
points in documents Ive seen where key financial information wasnt gone into in any real 
depth. QED says Mr G didnt want to disclose or discuss all financial details about himself, 
but its hard to see how it could give suitable pension transfer advice without it. 
So Mr Gs secondary pension provision wasnt, in my view, either brought out into the open 
or fully discussed. But I think its easy to dismiss the future pension accruals Mr G could 
reasonably expect because he was still only 41. And if I accept he had a new pension going 
forward, it isnt unreasonable to assume that by retirement, whenever it came, Mr G could 
have built up a substantial amount in a DC scheme. This was possible by taking the modest 
amount he already had in the TATA DC scheme and adding the future contributions in his 
new scheme over the next 13 -to- 23 years. 
I can also see that Mr G appeared to have significant disposable monthly income at the time 
of the advice so he could easily have contributed a little more to his pension in the future. 
This would have added to his objectives of using money tax efficiently. He also anticipated 
an imminent pay uplift as a result of getting a new job. In my view, all this adds to the 
significant financial resources he could expect to grow in the years ahead. And if one adds 
only modest growth to his overall wealth, then I think the evidence here is of Mr G being able 
to easily retire early on what he told the adviser he would need. He could still do this whilst 
retaining membership of a DB type scheme. 
I therefore think that Mr Gs current and future pension provisions  and his other financial 
resources  would have enabled him to reach very close to his preferred early retirement 
age. These resources would have afforded Mr G any flexibility he might have needed in the 
years ahead without the need to irreversibly withdraw from a guaranteed pension scheme 
with good benefits, at the age of only 41.
Ive therefore seen nothing explaining why Mr G wouldnt want to continue membership of a 
DB type scheme, such as the BSPS2, and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was 
originally intended. Indeed, I think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr G 
could have been in a reasonably agreeable position. On one hand hed have a meaningful 
existing deferred DB scheme. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such 
schemes normally bring which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. 
Significant indexation guarantees also existed and it was still underpinned by the PPF. On 
the other hand, hed have also built up a substantial DC scheme over a long period of time 
and its not unreasonable to say hed have amassed a substantial sum in this by retirement. 
Mr G also had other forms of income and all this is without assessing Mrs Gs pension 
provisions.
So, if Mr G ever found he needed flexibility, then hed be able to use the other resources he 
had, rather than transferring away.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr G had either the capacity or true desire to exercise 
control over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr G was being offered the opportunity to 
remain with the new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when 
compared to the original BSPS, but it remained a DB-type scheme nonetheless and was run 
for him by trustees. Mr G himself did appear to have experience of these types of other DC 
money market investments. But I also know he wanted ongoing financial advice which to 
me suggests he found the responsibility of managing over £113,000 of transferred funds to 
be onerous in the years ahead. Ongoing financial advice and support would cost him money 
which the DB scheme didnt require from him.
So, I think Mr Gs circumstances here were much more aligned to him moving to the BSPS2 
as planned and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse if Mr G died. Mr G was married and I think the death benefits in the 
BSPS2 would have been of use to Mrs G. We know, for example, there were certain spouse 
benefits present if Mr G pre-deceased his wife; and these related to both pre and post 
retirement scenarios. Theres no evidence that Mrs Gs own pension provision was so 
generous or substantial as to make this BSPS2 benefit of no use to her. And I think that 
around 50% of Mr Gs DB pension in retirement would have provided Mrs G with a degree of 
reassurance if he died first. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.
I see the subject of life insurance was discussed and I know Mr G probably already had 
some cover. But at 41 years old, an additional term life insurance policy would have been a 
reasonably affordable product if Mr G really did want to leave a large lump-sum legacy for a 
specific relative or someone else. QED could also have taken into account the fact that Mr G 
could have nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his other DC schemes. So, to 
this end Mr G already had plenty of options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with 
him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr G. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr G, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and I 
think to a degree, he probably lacked trust in the company. Hed probably also heard 
negative things about the BSPS2 and PPF and QED said he could have more control over 
his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr G was already leaning towards the decision to transfer 
because of the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the BSPS2 
and the PPF. However, it was QEDs obligation to give Mr G an objective picture and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
I accept there had been several months of uncertainty about the BSPS. But I think that QED 
should have also reassured Mr G that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning 
as he thought. The income available to Mr G through the PPF would have still probably 
provided a reasonable amount of the income he would have needed at retirement, and it 
was uncertain that hed be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the 
effect of pension charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were 
lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I 
dont think that these concerns should have led to QEDs recommendation to Mr G to 
transfer out altogether.
Suitability of investments 
QED recommended that Mr G invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr G and I 
dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring to a new personal pension if clear advice had 
been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme as was on offer in the form of BSPS2. This means the investment in the new funds wouldnt 
have arisen if suitable advice had been given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr G was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr G was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. 
Mr G still had many more years before he intended to retire and for the reasons Ive 
explained, it was much too soon to advise him to transfer away. I accept that Mr G was likely 
a knowledgeable investor and he probably went to the sessions with some idea of what he 
wanted. I also dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits 
on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr G. But 
QED wasnt there to just transact what Mr G might have thought he wanted. The advisers 
role was to really understand what Mr G needed and recommend what was in his best 
interests. And I dont think it was in Mr Gs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme 
to a personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr G would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that QED disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr G, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr G to transfer out, and I think Mr G relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr G would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against QEDs advice. I think if QED had provided him with clear advice against transferring 
out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have 
accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think QED should compensate Mr G for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for QEDs unsuitable advice. Mr G had already opted 
into joining the forthcoming BSPS2. I think he would have remained in this situation rather 
than transferring away to the personal pension, if he'd been given suitable advice. 
Compensation should therefore be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. 
To be clear, QED should use the benefits offered by the BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
QED must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
QED should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr G and our Service, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, upon completion of the calculation.This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Gs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, QED should:
calculate and offer Mr G redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr G before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
the DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr G receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr G accepts QEDs offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr G for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Gs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr G as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, QED may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from the pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Gs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Our investigator recommended that QED should pay Mr G for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr G in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
most of his retirement provision. In his situation I think the thought of losing material benefits 
would have impacted upon Mr G. So I agree the recommended payment of £300 for distress 
and inconvenience. QED should pay Mr G this amount in addition to the redress Ive set out 
above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct QED 
Financial Associates Ltd to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £170,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
QED Financial Associates Ltd pays Mr G the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr G.
If Mr G accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on QED Financial 
Associates Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman