DRN-3924422
The complaint
Mr R complains that Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt refunded two payments that were debited from 
his account.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr R went on a cruise with a company Ill call C. He says he was asked to 
provide a payment card which C could place a $100 USD holding charge on. He says C 
told him the holding charge wouldnt debit his account. When Mr R returned from the cruise, 
he saw that C had debited two amounts from his account. One was for £11.62 ($15.99 USD) 
and one was for £72.80 ($100 USD).
Mr R says he complained to C who told him that the holding charges shouldnt have debited 
his account. It said that Mr Rs bank (Monzo) should be able to refund the debits to him. 
Monzo asked Mr R for evidence that C had agreed to refund the two debited amounts. It 
then told Mr R that it couldnt request a refund because C had already refunded him. It said 
that C had placed a refund of £205.99 onto his account.
Mr R said the refund of £205.99 was unrelated to the two holding charges. He pointed out 
that it was for an entirely different value. He said while he had been on the cruise, C had 
announced that it would provide a refund of port taxes which for Mr R totalled $166.31 USD. 
He said this is what the refund of £205.99 related to, not the holding charges.
Monzo said that it couldnt process a chargeback through the card scheme for a refund 
because C had refunded Mr R during the same lifecycle of the payment and as hed 
received more than the charges, there was nothing left to chargeback.
Mr R complained to Monzo, but it didnt agree it had acted unfairly in relation to his request 
for a refund. However, it agreed to pay him £40 compensation for the poor way it had 
communicated with him throughout his requests for the refund.
I sent Mr R and Monzo my provisional decision on 18 January 2023. I explained why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. I said:
Mr Rs account was debited a total of $115.99 USD by C, which equated to £84.42 
after the various exchange rates were applied on those days. He was then refunded 
an amount of £205.99 by C. Mr Rs Monzo account statement said that this was the 
equivalent of $166.31 USD  the amount he was expecting for the refund of taxes. 
However, the information on the account statement was clearly incorrect. $166.31 
USD would never have equated to £205.99, the sterling amount would always be 
lower than the dollar amount. So clearly the refund was for a much more significant 
amount (in USD) than just $166.31 USD.
Monzo hasnt been able to provide the exact exchange rate that would have applied 
on the day Mr R received the refund into his account. However, using the 
approximate interbank exchange rate that applied on the day, $166.31 USD would 
have been equivalent to approximately £121.49. If I also include the two other 
refunds that were due from C this totalled $282.30 USD. At the approximate 
interbank rate on the day Mr R received his refund, this totalled approximately 
£206.22  a difference of only 23 pence to what he received.
Mr R is unlikely to have been entitled to the interbank rate as the card scheme is 
unlikely to have used that particular rate. However, it will have used one that was 
close to it. And given that the difference between what Mr R received and what the 
interbank rate on the day was, Im satisfied that the refund he received from C 
included the refund of taxes as well as the two holding charges. He therefore has 
already received everything he was due to receive from C.
Monzo ought to have spotted this much sooner and explained the situation clearly to 
Mr R. Further, the information on the account statement it provided to Mr R was 
wrong which has contributed to the confusion thats been caused. So, I think Monzos 
actions did cause unnecessary distress and inconvenience to Mr R.
However, Im mindful that Monzo has already compensated Mr R £40 and Mr R 
hasnt suffered any financial loss as he did receive the refunds he was entitled to. So, 
taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied that the amount Monzo has already 
compensated Mr R is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I therefore dont think 
it needs to do anything further to put things right.
Mr R didnt agree. He said the refunds were for something different, not the holding charges. 
He said that prior to me issuing the provisional decision, Monzo had decided to refund him 
the holding charges. He asked me to change my decision to reflect that Monzo had accepted 
liability.
Monzo didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R says Monzo has accepted liability and refunded him the holding charges. While Ive not 
had sight of any correspondence relating to that, it doesnt change the conclusions I reached 
in my provisional decision. As I set out above, Mr R had clearly already received the refunds 
he was entitled to from C. 
Mr R hasnt provided any arguments or evidence to demonstrate why my analysis of the 
refunds and the exchange rates that applied to them might be incorrect. Ive therefore seen 
no reason to reach a different finding. If Monzo has now refunded Mr R a further amount, it 
seems hes received more money back than he was ever entitled to. I therefore dont think 
Monzo has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr R. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman