DRN-4286713
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund payments which he has said he didnt 
authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
On 8 March 2023, £250 was withdrawn from an ATM using Mr Ss Santander debit card. 
And on 10 March 2023 a further £190 was withdrawn was withdrawn from an ATM outside a 
supermarket. He discovered the transactions when he was looking at his bank statement on 
his phone, which he checks once a week. 
Mr S reported the matter to Santander, but it refused to refund the money. It said the ATM 
withdrawals were completed with no incorrect PIN attempts or a balance enquiry, so the PIN 
was evidently known by whoever made the withdrawal and there was no identifiable point of 
compromise.
Mr S wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He explained he keeps his debit 
card in his wallet either in his trousers or in a drawer in his bedroom, and the PIN wasnt 
written down anywhere. He accepted his carers to use the card if he needed to withdraw 
cash and that they knew the PIN.
He explained that he paid for his shopping in the supermarket on 10 March 2023. His carer 
was with him when he went shopping, but he is certain he made no cash withdrawals that 
day and he doesnt think his carer would have taken money from him.
Santander commented that 23 minutes after the £190 withdrawal, a card payment of £83.80 
was made at the same supermarket. It said that if Mr S was alone, he must have made the 
withdrawal, or it could have been someone he was with. It said both transactions were Chip 
& PIN verified and the PIN might have been written down or given to a carer/family member 
to make withdrawals on Mr Ss behalf, which would mean hed been negligent and 
potentially breached the T&C of the account. It explained that it has facilities in place for 
carers which werent ever requested, and he didnt raise the matter with the police.
Having initially recommended that the complaint should be upheld, our investigator said that 
Mr Ss carers knew his PIN, so either he made the withdrawals himself, or one of the carers 
did. She noted that he consents for the carers to withdraw funds on his behalf and even if 
they went outside the agreement, the payments were authorised by CHIP & PIN, so under 
the legal principle of apparent authority the payments were authorised by Mr S.
Based on the fact Mr S had said he didnt remember what had happened, he still had his 
bank card with him, and there were no failed PIN attempts, our investigator felt the first 
withdrawal on 8 March 2023 was most likely made by Mr S himself or he consented for 
someone to make the transaction on his behalf. She was therefore satisfied the withdrawal 
was authorised by Mr S.
She explained the second withdrawal was made at the supermarket ATM at 10.52 on 10 
March 2023 and the payment he made inside the supermarket was at 11:15 the same day. 
She explained that Mr S had told her that when he goes to the shops, he withdraws money 
himself. He also said he doesnt have a clear memory of the events, so it was possible he 
could be mistaken about whether he made the withdrawals. So, she was satisfied on 
balance that he authorised the transaction.
Our investigator concluded that Mr S had consented for his carers to use his card under the 
rules of apparent authority so she couldnt fairly ask Santander to do anything to resolve the 
complaint.
Mr S has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know he feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
 
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply  like the 
issue around apparent authority, which has an impact on this complaint.
Mr S initially said he didnt make the two withdrawals, but he has since said that he cant 
really remember what happened due to the passage of time.
He has explained that he occasionally authorises his carers to withdraw cash on his behalf 
and that they know the PIN. Significantly, the ATM withdrawals were completed with no 
incorrect PIN attempts or a balance enquiry. He also accepts that he made a payment in the 
supermarket on 10 March 2023 and that he still has the debit card, which is significant 
because the second withdrawal was made 23 minutes before that payment.
The PSRs say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Mr S can be treated as acting 
with apparent authority when making transactions on their account. Authority consists of two 
elements. The transactions must be authenticated, and Mr S needs to have consented to the 
payments being made. 
Im satisfied the payments were authenticated from the information provided to us by 
Santander. In other words, Mr Ss genuine card details were used to make them. Mr S 
doesnt dispute providing his card details and authorising his carers to withdraw cash on his 
behalf prior to the disputed withdrawals, and there is no evidence that this consent was 
withdrawn.
Having considered all of the evidence, I think its likely that Mr S made the withdrawals 
himself or one of his carers made the withdrawals with apparent authority, therefore Im 
satisfied the disputed transactions were authorised.
Because of this, Im satisfied Mr S authorised the transactions and so I cant fairly ask 
Santander to refund the money.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman