DRN-4141291
The complaint
Mr M and Mr S complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited repaired their car when they 
claimed under their motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M and Mr S said that when Avivas approved repairer( Avivas garage) repaired his car 
they didnt use genuine manufacture parts, contrary to what hed been promised. He said 
this compromised the standard of the repairs. He wanted Aviva to now repair his car to the 
manufacturer's standard with manufacturer parts or pay for him to arrange that.  
Aviva said Mr Ms policy didnt require them to use manufacturer parts, they had no record of 
having promised him otherwise and he hadnt evidenced anything wrong with the repairs.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think that Aviva had been 
unreasonable. Mr M and Mr S didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
For ease Ill refer to Mr M and Mr S from now on as Mr M.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont assess whether or how damage to a car would be caused as this is a matter for 
the experts in these situations, the insurance companies, and engineers. Our role in these 
complaints is to determine whether an insurer company has considered all the available 
evidence and whether they can justify their decision to not pay for additional repairs.
Ive looked at Mr Ms policy and it doesnt require Aviva to use manufacturer parts. It says :
We may decide to use parts or accessories not supplied by the original manufacturer, but 
which are of a similar standard, including recycled parts. 
This is not an unusual clause in motor insurance policies, and I dont think its unreasonable. 
Mr M agreed to this when he took out the policy.
Mr M said he knew that insurers might use non-manufacturer parts but both Aviva and their 
garage told him that they would use genuine manufacturer parts. He said Aviva told him this 
on the phone when he first made the claim on 6 July and on other occasions  And on that 
basis, he chose to use their garage and not a manufacturer garage. 
Avivas garage confirmed that the only part theyd used which was not from the original 
manufacturer was the catalytic convertor. Mr M submitted an estimate from a manufacturer 
garage for its replacement. This amounted to about £2,700.  
Aviva say that despite searching their records of over 2000 calls to them on 6 July they had 
no record of his call, and there is no other record of their having discussed using genuine 
parts with Mr M. Their garage have no record either of saying that genuine parts would be 
used.
Mr M thinks it is convenient that Aviva does not have a recording of the 6 July call, and their 
failure to provide it suggest that they are not telling the truth. However Mr M said he also 
discussed the manufacturer parts issue with Aviva and their garage later but hasnt provided 
other dates of these conversations or the names of those he spoke to. Looking at the 
evidence overall, its not enough for me to find that Aviva and/or their garage did tell Mr M 
they would use only genuine parts. 
And although Mr M has provided a manufacturer garage estimate for the replacement of the 
relevant part with a manufacturer one, he has not shown any independent expert report 
evidence that Avivas using non-manufacturer parts means that their repair was incorrect or 
has compromised anything. So Mr M hasnt shown that he has made a loss because of 
Avivas use of non-manufacturer parts or because of what he says was Avivas misleading 
information to him about it. 
Aviva have complied with their policy terms and so in the circumstances overall I cant say 
that they have acted unreasonably or unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
  
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
