DRN-3277810
The complaint
Miss W complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio) have failed to collect and refund items 
on time and that shes therefore been charged interest on items that wasnt due. She says 
thats also resulted in her credit limit being reduced.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss W, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When our investigator reviewed Studios submissions and told Miss W she thought there 
was evidence the business had resolved the outstanding issues, Miss W said they hadnt. 
She said theyd failed to refund items on time and had reduced her credit limit and that all of 
that had resulted in missed payments being registered on her account. Our investigator 
asked for further details on a couple of occasions. She wanted Miss W to clarify what 
aspects of her complaint were still outstanding, but Miss W didnt provide any further 
clarification.
Im satisfied that Miss W has been given ample opportunity to set out the outstanding issues 
so Ill consider the information I have on file to decide this case.
There were several products that Miss W says she either refused delivery of and werent 
recredited or that were simply not collected from her. Its clear from Studios case logs that 
communication with Miss W has continued since she first referred her complaint to us about 
those issues in September 2021. Ive reviewed Studios email to Miss W on 26 October 2021 
in which they set out those concerns. Studio accept that credits werent processed because 
they didnt process returns on time. They explain that they have credited all four of those 
items back to Miss Ws account and that a credit for a further item (a phone) will be provided 
that day. Studio offer Miss W £50 compensation for the errors made and explain that all 
interest and charges accrued on those items has been refunded to the account.
In late November 2021 I can see Miss W complains again to Studio and explains that she is 
being chased for those debts with threats of reporting missed payments to her credit file. On 
27 November 2021 Studio explain that there have been delays crediting the account but that 
all credits have now been applied. 
Miss W complained about her credit limit being reduced by Studio. The limit is for Studio to 
decide. Its for them to assess affordability fairly and to decide how much credit theyre 
prepared to extend. I can see that account information dated 11 December 2021 suggests a 
credit limit of £500 is being applied and thats in line with what Miss W wanted. So, whilst I 
wouldnt be able to insist Studio provide a £500 limit it appears theyve been willing to do so 
and that all aspects of Miss Ws complaint highlighted to us in September of 2021 have now 
been resolved.
Having considered the resolutions and compensation Studio have provided I think the 
redress is fair and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman