DRN-2127678
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that esure Insurance Limited (esure) hasnt settled his claim in full following 
a burglary at his home.
What happened
Mr F had buildings and contents insurance with esure. His home was burgled during the 
night while he and his family were asleep. He reported the burglary to the police and made a 
claim to esure under his policy. The claim was for personal possessions which had been 
stolen, including jewellery, laptops, phones, and money. 
In principle, esure accepted the claim and asked for proof of ownership. It settled the claim 
for the items for which Mr F had provided evidence of ownership. esure said it would only 
pay for the remaining items if he provided suitable evidence.
Mr F complained. He thought esure was being unreasonable because:
some of the items were over 30 years old and he no longer had the receipts;
esure rejected receipts for the laptops because they werent in his name;
it wouldnt cover the stolen money, and 
it rejected his later claim for damage to his fence which was the point of entry.
esure maintained its decision that it wouldnt pay for any further items without appropriate 
proof of ownership. It also said the fence claim wasnt covered because the damage was 
caused mainly by a storm, not the burglary.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought esure had handled the claim fairly 
and, without further evidence, he didnt think esure needed to pay the remaining claim.
Mr F didnt agree. He repeated his dissatisfaction that esure rejected the evidence hed 
provided as proof of ownership, and he thought it was unreasonable to expect family 
members to hunt out photographs in support of his claim. Mr F felt sure the stolen money 
was covered under his policy and he remained unhappy that esure declined his claim for the 
broken fence.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr F will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain.
Overall, esure accepted the claim, but the issue is that it didnt pay for everything Mr F 
reported as stolen or damaged. So, Ill focus on the items of which he provided some 
evidence because these are the main causes of complaint.
It is Mr Fs responsibility to show that he suffered a loss covered under his policy. To do that, 
hed need to provide proof that he owned the items for which he claimed. I wouldnt expect 
him to be able to provide receipts for possessions which are very old, but there are other 
ways to demonstrate ownership, such as photos or packaging.
If Mr F demonstrates ownership with appropriate evidence, its possible esure would settle 
the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy, unless it demonstrates that an 
exclusion applies.
Money
Mr F says around £500 to £550 was stolen from two locations within his home and he thinks 
it should be covered under his policy. He hasnt provided any evidence, which I understand 
would be difficult unless the exact sum was withdrawn from a bank or cash machine. 
The policy says:
Your Cover
What is not covered? 
We will not pay for theft of Money:
unless someone has broken into or out of Your House by using force and violence. 
I think the terms are clear - if Mr F can prove his loss, and the money was taken because 
there was a forced and violent entry to his home, then its likely esure would cover the claim. 
Ive noted that theres a policy limit up to £750, subject to the policy excess. 
esure declined Mr Fs claim for the theft of money because there was no evidence of force 
and violence. After first saying the window was cracked, Mr F told esure the crack was from 
an earlier incident and there was no need for someone to inspect and repair it. He said the 
window was off the latch. Based on Mr Fs report of events, the burglar gained entry to his 
home by opening the window rather than breaking it. As theres no indication of violence, 
and Mr F hasnt provided evidence of his loss, I think its fair that esure declined the claim for 
the money. 
Watch
esure declined Mr Fs claim for a luxury brand watch because he didnt provide enough 
evidence of ownership. He provided a photo of his wife wearing the watch and a wedding 
band which was also stolen, but esure didnt think the photo clearly showed a watch. esure 
covered the wedding band based on the same evidence so Ive thought carefully about 
whether it was fair to cover one item from the photo but not the other. Ive decided it was. 
While esure cant be certain that the wedding band in the photo is the one which was stolen, 
there is little, if anything, to distinguish one gold band from another. So it paid what it 
considered to be a fair amount, based on average prices, as a gesture of goodwill.
esure didnt think the photo of the watch was clear and it looked more like a bracelet. While I 
think the photo may show a watch worn with the face on the inside of the wrist, theres no 
way of knowing what type of watch it is. The brand Mr F claimed for would cost around 
£1000 or more, and its not uncommon to keep the warranty, box and/or spare links for the 
strap. So I think its fair that esure asked for more evidence of ownership than the photo. 
Engagement ring 
Mr F claimed for the theft of an engagement ring which he reported as a gold  carat 
diamond ring. He provided esure with a Certificate of Authenticity (CoA). esure didnt accept 
the CoA as proof because it didnt have a name, address or date on it, and it didnt look like 
it was 30 years old, which was roughly the age of the ring. Mr F pointed out that receipts 
dont have a name and address.  I understand the point Mr F is making, but a receipt is dated and generally has the product 
description on it, or other identifying information. Regardless of that, I agree that the CoA 
doesnt support Mr Fs claim but for slightly different reasons. The paper doesnt look like its 
old, but I understand it couldve been kept safely. However, the description is of a platinum 
ring which doesnt match the description of a gold ring which Mr F reported as stolen. So, 
because the description of the ring on the CoA doesnt match the description of the ring Mr F 
reported as stolen, I think it was reasonable that esure rejected the claim for that item. 
Remaining items
Ive commented on some of the main items Mr F claimed for under his policy and which 
esure declined because the evidence provided didnt prove ownership. I havent covered 
every item outstanding because the reason esure gave for not covering them is the same. 
But I should point out that esure only declined to pay unless/until Mr F provided appropriate 
evidence of ownership, and it gave examples of the type of evidence it would accept. While 
he has said esure, or this service, can check the details hes given, its Mr Fs responsibility 
to evidence his loss. So, Im satisfied that esure has handled his claim fairly and that it will 
consider covering further items claimed for originally if Mr F provides evidence of ownership.
I understand the burglar was arrested and convicted. Its possible the police have further 
evidence to support Mr Fs claim, but that would be a matter for him to follow up on.
Fence
Some time after the burglary, Mr F made a further claim under his policy for damage to his 
fence. He said that the fence was damaged in a storm but only because of the original 
damage caused by the burglar. esure declined the claim because its surveyor reported that 
the storm caused the damage.
Ive looked at the report and the photos provided and I dont think esure has been 
unreasonable here. The fence looks in poor condition and there are some areas of damage 
which match older photos taken before the burglary. I accept that the burglar may have 
caused some damage to the fence, and I dont think esure is disputing that. But it said the 
storm was the main cause of the damage. Given that Mr F didnt report any damage to his 
fence at the time of the burglary, and he only claimed after a 70mph wind storm, I think its 
more likely than not that the storm was the main cause of the damage. But, again, esure 
said if Mr F could provide any contradictory evidence, it would reconsider his claim. I think 
esure has been fair here.
In summary, esure accepted Mr Fs claim for stolen possessions but it only paid for those 
which he could evidence ownership. At each stage, where an item claimed for has been 
declined, esure has said that if Mr F can provide further evidence, it will reconsider his claim. 
esure also told Mr F what sort of evidence hed need to provide. I think thats fair.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman