DRN-3128017
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Vauxhall Finance plc (Vauxhall or the lender) was 
irresponsible to have agreed car finance for him in 2016. Mr A also complains that 
Vauxhall was responsible for the sale of the car following it being impounded because it 
had failed to register its interest in the car by way of an HPI marker.
What happened
In May 2016 Vauxhall entered into a hire-purchase agreement with Mr A, through an 
intermediary, in order for him to acquire a car. The cash price of the car was £14,604. 
Mr A also purchased GAP insurance at a cost of £459, so the total sale price came to 
£15,062. He paid a deposit of £3,300 and borrowed the balance of £11,763, which cost 
£1,294 in interest and charges. The agreement was for a total of £16,357. This was to be 
repaid by monthly instalments of approximately £230 over 35 months, with a final payment 
of £5,022. (Ive rounded figures to the nearest pound.)
Mr A had the option of voluntarily terminating the agreement at any point and 
returning the car. This option would limit Mr As total liability to £7,935 (as set out in 
the agreement) if hed taken reasonable care of the car. The agreement also 
stipulated that once Mr A had paid £5,290 Vauxhall would not be able to take the car 
unless it had obtained a court order allowing it to do so.
It seems Mr A had problems making his repayments from the outset  the account 
history shows six returned direct debit payments within the first six months  and fell into 
arrears in late 2017. The account was held briefly by a third party collector in early 2019 
before being passed back to Vauxhall to initiate repossession proceedings  the 
customer notes record that Mr A had said that he would no longer make his repayments 
and wanted to voluntarily surrender the car.
Vauxhall terminated the agreement on 25 March 2019, almost three years from the 
outset, but it made an arrangement with Mr A to take payments, which he paid from 
March to September. Mr A missed his October payment and on 18 November 2019 
Vauxhall issued Mr A with a Return of Goods (ROG) notice. A hearing took place on 4 
February 2020, Mr A attended and offered to pay £460 a month going forward. This was 
declined by Vauxhall and the hearing was adjourned for 28 days.
It seems from the customer contact notes that the car was impounded by the police 
before the next hearing, which had been set for the 3 March 2020. Vauxhalls notes 
record that it found out in March 2020 that the car had in fact been sold in January at 
auction and the buyer collected it sometime later. Vauxhall deemed the buyer to be an 
innocent party as the car wasnt shown as being financed on a credit reference agency 
search at that point, in other words there wasnt an HPI marker on the file. Vauxhall 
subsequently relinquished all interest in the vehicle, but Mr A was sent a letter advising 
him to attend court for a ROG hearing in May 2020. Vauxhall confirmed it cancelled that 
court hearing.
Mr A says that Vauxhall should not have entered into the agreement with him as it 
was unaffordable. He explained that he was often in receipt of state benefits 
(jobseekers allowance), could barely afford his living costs and his application was 
initially declined.
Mr A also complains that the car would not have been sold if Vauxhall had registered 
their interest in it (by way of an HPI marker) and he remains convinced that Vauxhall 
gave permission for the sale. Mr A also says that he shouldnt be held liable for any 
court costs that Vauxhall incurred.
Mr A said When my vehicle was impounded because I reported it stolen and because it 
didn't have insurance Vauxhall finance was contacted which is why when I went to pick my 
car up I wasn't allowed to do so. Vauxhall finance thought they would do things the wrong 
way round by granting the vehicle to be sold at auction without my permission which they 
did ask for in writing.
Vauxhall disagreed that it was irresponsible to agree finance for Mr A and it said We can 
confirm that an HPI marker was not added on the vehicle. However we are not legally 
obliged to do this. We were unaware that the vehicle had been sold and did not receive 
any proceeds from the sale. With no payment being received we prepared to apply to the 
court for a return of goods, when it because apparent there was no asset to repossess 
the order was vacated. However the solicitors who had worked on the case on our behalf 
charged for their time. This cost was then passed to Mr [A] which we are allowed to do.
I understand that the proceeds of the sale (presumably minus any monies owing for tax 
or insurance) were paid by the police directly to Mr A. Vauxhall records the new owner 
stating they paid £4,422, Mr A says the refund he received amounted to about £3,000. It 
seems the police accepted Mr A as the legal owner of the car, and so I dont think its 
appropriate for me to comment further on this aspect of the matter.
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because they found that Vauxhall was irresponsible to have entered into the agreement 
with him. However, our investigator found that Vauxhall hadnt treated Mr A unfairly 
regarding the repossession of the car. To put things right for him, they recommended that 
Mr A should only be liable for the capital he borrowed and that any interest charges or 
fees he paid should be used to clear the outstanding balance. They also recommended 
that if the refund didnt clear any remaining capital balance Vauxhall should discuss a 
suitable repayment plan with Mr A.
Vauxhall accepted our investigators recommendations and confirmed that an 
outstanding balance would remain following the redress. Mr A didnt agree with our 
investigators recommendations. Mr A said that Vauxhall didnt have his permission to 
repossess the car without a court order and so feels he should be refunded all his 
payments under the agreement, along with compensation for the stress this matter has 
cause him. Mr A feels very strongly that the car should not have been sold and says that 
he paid over £12,000 and has no car to show for it. He asked for his complaint to come 
to an ombudsman to review and resolve and so it came to me.
I issued a provisional decision on the 20 September 2021 explaining that I was planning 
to uphold Mr As complaint in part. I agreed with the investigators conclusion that 
Vauxhall was irresponsible when it agreed finance for Mr A. I also found that it didnt 
treat him fairly when he fell into arrears and it didnt give him clear and fair information 
about his account. However, I didnt have enough information to say that it had done 
something wrong regarding the repossession and sale of the car. 
To put things right, I thought that not only should Vauxhall limit the amount Mr A owed under the agreement to the capital he borrowed, but that it should pay him some 
compensation to reflect the impact its other errors had on him. I also thought it was fair 
that Vauxhall retain the monthly payments Mr A made under the agreement to reflect 
that hed had the use of the car for almost three and a half years. 
Bearing in mind Mr A had received the proceeds from the sale, I felt that the simplest 
way to resolve this complaint was, instead of paying Mr A a refund of his deposit and 
compensation, for Vauxhall to write off the outstanding capital balance and close his 
account. I said it should also remove any negative information about the account from 
Mr As credit file and mark it as settled.
Vauxhall said that it had nothing further to add in response to my provisional conclusions 
and proposed redress. Mr A was unhappy with my proposals to put things right for him. 
He said that:
I should recommend a refund of the monthly payments he made as this would put 
him back into the position he would have been in had the agreement not 
happened; and 
Vauxhall repossessed the car without a court order and sold it without his 
permission which is a breach of its terms and conditions, which say it needs a 
court order to recover the car; and
Vauxhall has acted so wrongly in its actions when approving the agreement, and 
since, that he should be entitled to receive a refund of all his payments as well as 
his deposit, along with compensation for the stress this matter has caused him as 
its impacted on his health and family life.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As before, I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I want to reassure Mr A that I have carefully 
considered what hes said in response to my provisional decision. Having reviewed 
the matter again, my conclusions remain the same and I am still of the view that my 
proposed redress is the fairest way to put things right. 
For completeness, Ill set out below my reasons for upholding Mr As complaint. 
This is my final decision on the matter and it will be binding on both parties should 
Mr A chose to accept it.
As Id said in my provisional decision, the credit to buy the car was granted by Vauxhall 
under a hire purchase agreement meaning Mr A would own the car when the credit had 
been repaid. Vauxhall was the owner until that point and Mr A was, in essence, paying 
for the use of it.
Vauxhall needed to check that Mr A could afford to meet his repayments sustainably 
before agreeing credit for him. In other words, it needed to check he could repay the 
credit out of his usual means without having to borrow further and without experiencing 
financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The checks needed to be 
proportionate to the nature of the credit and Mr As circumstances, and Vauxhall needed 
to take proper account of the information it gathered.
Vauxhall also needed to take a proportionate and considered approach to Mr As arrears 
difficulties. So when Mr A fell into arrears, Vauxhall should have given him the opportunity 
to repay the arrears, potentially deferring payment or accepting token payments for a time.
CONC 7.12.2(R)(3) stated that a firm must not refuse to deal with a customer who is 
developing a repayment plan, unless there is an objectively justifiable reason for doing 
so. And operating a policy of refusal is not a justifiable reason.
The regulator was also clear that firms must not put pressure on consumers to pay their 
debt in a single payment or pay more than they can reasonably afford and it would be 
unfair to pressure them to take action that adversely impacts on their financial 
circumstances.
CONC 7.3.10(R) stated that a firm must not pressurise a customer:
(1) to pay a debt in one single or very few repayments or in unreasonably large 
amounts, when to do so would have an adverse impact on the customer's financial 
circumstances;
(2) to pay a debt within an unreasonably short period of time; or
(3) to raise funds to repay the debt by selling their property, borrowing money or 
increasing existing borrowing.
The overarching requirement is that Vauxhall needed to pay due regard to Mr As 
interests and treat him fairly.
In coming to a decision on this case, I thought about the following questions:
- did Vauxhall make a fair lending decision, in other words did it complete 
reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr As application 
to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the finance in a sustainable 
way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Vauxhall provide clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
credit before and during the term?
- did Vauxhall act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way, for example 
when Mr A had difficulty meeting repayments?
Our investigator found that Vauxhall was irresponsible to have entered into the 
agreement with Mr A and it has accepted this finding. I have reviewed this and am in 
agreement with this conclusion and for broadly the same reasons our investigator 
explained in their view. A proportionate check was likely to have shown that Mr A 
wouldnt be able to meet his repayments sustainably over the term of the agreement. As 
I mentioned above, it seems Mr A struggled from the outset to maintain his repayments 
and continues to have financial difficulty, for example his rent arrears in 2019 resulted in 
a court order in November 2019.
I also considered whether Vauxhall treated Mr A unfairly when he had difficulty making his 
repayments. Vauxhall provided its customer contact records and I can see that it had 
frequent contact with Mr A regarding payments from the outset. As mentioned, Mr A 
struggled to repay his arrears having missed a payment in late 2018. A default notice was 
sent to him and his account was passed to a third-party debt collector that December.
By 16 January 2019 Mr As arrears had amounted to almost £700. Vauxhall records that 
the debt collector visited Mr A in February 2019 and a customer note says  The 
customer has also stated that he cannot really afford the asset. The agent then 
discussed that the asset should really be returned to the clients. The agent left his contact details for the customer who said he wanted to consider his options. The agent 
spoke further to the customer on the 12.02.2019 and reiterated that he must make an 
arrangement to clear the arrears in full or VS [voluntarily surrender] the asset.
A customer contact record from 12 February says customer was unhappy that he feels 
he has not been given a chance to pay. I agreed the following - He will pay £100 tomorrow 
(13/02) and then a minimum £500 by 18/02 and then he has ptp remaining arrears by the 
end of FEB. I emphasized that is his last chance and we WILL go for a ROG if any of 
these payments are missed or he does not VS.
A further note from the 20 February states: Customer called in to say he started a job 
today, he will be paid 01/03 he will pay at least £200 then he is looking at £200 a week I 
dont think this is affordable long term so advised him he would need to make a payment 
of at least £200 by 01/03 and then agree an arrangement with us.
A note from the 28 February states that the third-party report included that Mr A had been 
in contact with a national advice charity and he deemed himself to be a vulnerable 
consumer and as such wouldnt be making any further payments. Despite this, Mr A paid 
the £100 in February 2019, then £200 on 1 March, £100 on 11 March and a further £100 
on the 27 March. On the 27 March it seems an arrangement was made where Mr A would 
pay two lots of £230 a month, which he managed in April. He paid a total of £330 in May, 
£460 in June and £230 in each of July, August and September.
Meanwhile, Vauxhall had terminated the agreement on the 22 March 2019.
I dont think Vauxhall treated Mr A fairly here. I cant see that it considered Mr As means 
before coming to a mutually agreed repayment amount, and simply gave him the option 
of paying his arrears in full or voluntarily surrendering the car or else it would apply to the 
courts for repossession. I think the threat of repossession put pressure on Mr A to pay 
more than he could afford without experiencing undue difficulty. Mr A was having wider 
financial problems, as mentioned, he was struggling to pay his rent, which eventually 
resulted in a court order for repossession of his accommodation in November 2019 
unless he paid over £2,000 in arrears and court costs.
Mr A has also complained that Vauxhall should not have allowed the car to be sold because 
hed repaid over a third of the amount owing, he didnt give his consent for it to be 
repossessed and Vauxhall didnt have a court order for repossession. In its final response 
letter to Mr A Vauxhall said  As the return of goods order has been granted by the County 
Court, we are satisfied that this is beyond the Jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service but for the avoidance of doubt we have included their details below. I cant see from 
the available information that Vauxhall acquired a court order for the return of the car. It 
applied for one in December 2019, but the hearing in February 2020 was adjourned for 28 
days without the order being granted and Vauxhall postponed the rescheduled hearing on 4 
March because there was no vehicle to repossess and it vacated the 5 May hearing.
Mr A is adamant that Vauxhall facilitated the sale of the car because he says it was aware 
that the car had been impounded. He says that he wasnt allowed to recover his car and 
he was told that the police were discussing it with the finance company, and that Vauxhall 
gave permission for the car to be sold. Vauxhalls customer contact notes suggest it was 
confused as to the whereabouts of the car and were not aware that it had been sold. In 
the absence of any further information, I dont have enough to say that Vauxhall got 
something wrong regarding the repossession or the sale of the car.
As I mentioned ealier, Mr A feels very strongly on this point. However, I havent been 
provided with any new information about what happened. So I still cant find that Vauxhall did something wrong here. I do however, think that its communication on this point to Mr A 
was misleading and unfair.
In summary, Ive concluded that Vauxhall was irresponsible when it agreed finance for 
Mr A, it didnt treat him fairly when he fell into arrears and it didnt give him clear and fair 
information about his account.
I think Mr A has lost out financially by paying interest and fees on an agreement that 
shouldnt have been set up and he has been emotionally impacted by his unfair 
treatment. Mr A says this matter caused him a lot of stress and that repaying the finance 
caused him to build up rent arrears which almost lost him his home. He feels that he 
managed to repay a large proportion of the money owed under the agreement and yet 
ended up without a car. Mr A says that the matter continues to impact on his health and I 
think Vauxhall needs to pay Mr A some compensation to reflect that.
Ive set out below what Vauxhall needs to do to put things right for Mr A. It is up to Mr A 
whether or not he choses to accept my final decision on his complaint. If he choses not to, 
it would then be up to him and Vauxhall to come to an agreeable resolution together or 
allow a court to decide whats best.
Putting things right
Mr A wishes to have his deposit and monthly repayments refunded, along with 
compensation in order to resolve his complaint. Generally, where a consumer hasnt 
bought the vehicle under an agreement and it has been repossessed and sold, this 
Services approach is to consider that the consumer ought to have their payments 
refunded minus an amount to reflect their usage of the vehicle over the time they had it. 
This is because they will usually have had some use of the vehicle and it will likely have 
decreased in value over this time, amongst other factors. I havent seen anything which 
suggests I should not start with this general approach here, though this assumes that the 
lender has retained the proceeds of the sale to recoup money owed under the agreement. 
Mr A paid a deposit of £3,300 and then £8,640 in monthly payments in the 41 months or 
so he had the use of the car. I understand that Mr A actually paid £1,800 of the deposit 
and the remaining £1,500 was a finance deposit allowance paid by the manufacturer. 
So, in effect, Mr A has paid a total of about £10,440.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair proportion of Mr As payments might 
be retained by Vauxhall to reflect his usage of the car. I am not aware of any problems with 
the car which might have impaired Mr As use of it. Ive considered the cash price of the car, 
the amount of interest charged on the agreement, how the agreement was structured and 
the likelihood of the car having decreased in value since the agreements inception.  
Having carefully thought about everything again, Ive concluded as before that its fair 
Vauxhall retains the monthly payments Mr A made, which amount to £8,640 in other words 
about £210 a month, as a fair usage charge. 
The balance owed under the agreement was £5,254.36 as of the 2 July 2021. Mr A was 
charged £459 for GAP insurance, £1,294 in interest and £836 in overdue fees and 
solicitors fees: a total of £2,589. I dont think Mr A should be liable for these charges as I 
think the agreement should not have been put in place. The outstanding balance should 
be reduced by this amount, which leaves a capital balance owing of about £2,665. 
Ive borne in mind that Mr A received the sales proceeds. Ive also borne in mind that this 
matter has caused and is continuing to cause him distress. Ive therefore concluded that the fairest way to resolve this complaint is for Vauxhall to write off the outstanding capital 
balance (adjusted as Ive set out above) instead of paying Mr A a refund of his payments 
above the fair usage charge or further compensation directly. 
Vauxhall should also remove any negative information about the account from Mr As 
credit file and mark it as settled.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr As complaint about Vauxhall 
Finance plc and it should put things right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman