DRN-4321333
The complaint
S, a company, made a claim on its Aviva Insurance Limited retail business protection 
insurance policy.
Ss complaint is brought by its Director but in this decision, I shall refer to all submissions as 
being Ss own for ease of reference.
S says that Aviva caused unnecessary delays in dealing with its claim and treated it unfairly.
What happened
S made a claim on its Aviva retail business protection policy for damage that had occurred to 
its stock because of an escape of sewerage at its premises. Aviva appointed a loss adjuster 
to consider the claim.
The loss adjuster attended Ss premises and took an account of how the escape of 
sewerage came about and how it was stopped. Aviva says the loss adjuster reported there 
was an inconsistency it wanted to clarify in relation to how the escape of sewerage was 
resolved so they asked S for details of its landlord to clarify one of the accounts S had given.
S has refused to provide details of its landlord. It says that although the landlord organised 
for the issue causing the escape of sewerage to be remedied, it didnt review the situation 
itself but rather sent a contractor to do so. S says the landlord would not therefore be in a 
position to comment on this issue. S feels this isnt a reason for its claim to be delayed and 
that it has had to retain stock thats been covered in sewerage since it made the claim 
because Aviva told it not to dispose of it. S also says that the stock is stored in its showroom, 
so it hasnt been able to use this and consequently has suffered a loss of profits and 
business interruption. It wants Aviva to consider its claim for this under the policy.
Our investigator considered Ss complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. She thought that 
Avivas request was reasonable, and that S were under an obligation to provide Aviva with 
all information and assistance it needed to help it assess the claim. S doesnt agree so the 
matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Ss complaint for broadly the same reasons cited by 
the investigator. Ill explain why.
Its a policy requirement that S provides Aviva with all information and assistance they 
require to allow them to investigate a claim.
The issue here is whether the information Avivas loss adjuster on Avivas behalf, has asked 
for is reasonable. As I understand it, they wanted Ss landlords details to verify how the 
escape of sewerage was stopped. Thats not unexpected in a claim like this. Even if the loss 
adjuster wasnt trying to iron out a discrepancy in Ss account, Aviva would need to be 
satisfied that the cause of the loss had been stopped effectively, such that it would mitigate 
their losses going forward.
I appreciate that S feels its landlord cant comment on the issue directly because they didnt 
attend its premises. But that doesnt mean they cant comment with reference to the 
contractor S says the landlord sent. The landlord can for example relay the contractors 
account to Aviva or provide details of the contractor it appointed to do the work. 
I note that S has now provided details of its landlords managing agents to Avivas loss 
adjuster but advised them to copy it into the email they intend to send. I dont think this is a 
reasonable request. S doesnt need to be privy to any investigations Aviva makes with its 
landlord to establish the events surrounding the claim and I wouldnt expect it to do so. If S 
wants its claim to be properly considered it will need to provide Aviva with all the information 
its requested to do this and allow it the freedom to do so without seeking to be involved in 
any investigations, it makes. 
Turning now to the delays that S has complained about; having reviewed the timeline 
surrounding this claim, I dont think I can say that Aviva are to blame for this. If S had 
provided Avivas loss adjuster with its landlords details sooner, I dont think the claim would 
have taken as long to progress. And as things stand, investigations are currently ongoing. I 
note S says the loss adjuster has yet to respond to it providing its landlords management 
agents details. Aviva should now ensure that it instructs its loss adjuster to continue 
investigating the matter if the adjuster hasnt already started doing so.
I dont intend to comment on the other issues S has raised about the information the loss 
adjuster has already gathered save to say this doesnt mean S did what it should have done 
and supplied its landlords details, as requested. I know it is currently holding onto stock that 
is in poor condition. I recommend that S provides all the outstanding information due to the 
loss adjuster without delay so that its claim can be progressed as quickly as possible. For 
clarity I understand the outstanding information consists of a detailed claims schedule with 
supporting information, images/illustrations of the assembled lights e.g., from Ss catalogue 
or website, and details of the pipe repair. My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Ss complaint against Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman