DRN-3978224
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC treated him unfairly when applying early 
repayment charges (ERC) to payments made to his mortgage.
What happened
Mr B made a part redemption payment to his mortgage of £7,495.28 in October 2022. After 
this he made five additional regular payment amounts which totalled £7,222.34 and asked 
for this to be capitalised. However, after these payments were made Barclays charged an 
ERC. Mr B believed that this totalled £356.50.
Mr B says he needed to take time off from work unpaid to speak with Barclays and 
understand why the ERC had been charged. He was unhappy that his money had been 
used to pay this charge and not be applied to the mortgage. This was a stressful situation 
and Mr B said this impacted his health and underlying conditions.
Barclays looked into the complaint and said it was sorry that it had provided Mr B with 
incorrect information previously. It explained he could make an overpayment each month of 
up to 3 times the contractual monthly payment but if this is exceeded, an ERC will be applied 
to the overpayment amount.
To recognise the time spent dealing with this and the distress and inconvenience caused, 
Barclays agreed to pay the £356.50 to Mr B that he believed hed been charged with an 
additional payment of £150 for distress and inconvenience. 
Our investigator looked at this complaint and felt the outcome was fair.  He said the total 
amount of ERCs applied to the mortgage was £216.66 but despite this, Barclays agreed to 
pay Mr B what he thought the loss was as well as the payment for the distress and 
inconvenience. He recognised the impact this had on Mr B but felt that overall this 
represented a fair and reasonable settlement for the complaint and it wouldnt be right to ask 
Barclays to do anything else. 
Mr B didnt accept. He said the loss was as he had calculated it and not only £216.66 so the 
refund was not inflated. He highlighted the difficult time hed had trying to reach Barclays and 
deal with this issue and how this had impacted his trust. This was during a difficult time in his 
life and he feels as a loyal customer, £150 for the distress and inconvenience is not fair.
Our investigators opinion remained unchanged, so the complaint has been passed to me for 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know Mr B will be disappointed by this decision, 
but Ill explain why Ive reached it.
Barclays accepted that Mr B had been given incorrect information about the ERC on his 
mortgage account and how this would work and it took steps to rectify any loss as a result.
Mr B feels his financial loss because of the ERC was £356.50. Our investigator didnt agree 
and said he believed the total to be £216.66 based on the transaction history provided by 
Barclays. Ive reviewed this and Im satisfied Mr B was charged five ERCs. Four of the 
charges were for £43.54 and one for £42.50 totalling £216.66. Im not sure why Barclays 
agent believed the amount to be higher as directed by Mr B, but it offered to refund the 
amount he believed this to be anyway. So while Barclays didnt need to refund what it did, I 
think its offer to refund £356.50 to Mr B is fair and reasonable.
Mr B doesnt think the amount Barclays has offered for the distress caused is fair. He has 
explained how this has impacted him and his underlying conditions and that he had also 
recently had a family bereavement. Im sorry to hear this and it is clear that overall, it would 
have been a difficult time for Mr B. And he needed to take time off work to speak with 
Barclays as he looked to understand why it had deducted the ERCs when he didnt think 
this should have happened. 
When something goes wrong there will always be a level of inconvenience experienced in 
taking steps to put it right, this will include taking time to deal with the issue. In this situation 
Mr B spent a number of hours on the phone and so it was right that Barclays recognised the 
extra inconvenience caused and that this was beyond the level of inconvenience it might be 
reasonable to expect. It also recognised the impact the complaint was having on Mr B and 
his health.  But I feel the amount offered by Barclays for the distress and inconvenience of 
the complaint is fair and in line with what Id expect it to pay for this.
Overall, I think the offer made to put things right by Barclays is fair and reasonable and dont 
think is right to ask Barclays to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman