DRN-4491750
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed their joint account and 
removed their overdraft without notice. Theyd like compensation for the impact caused to 
them.
What happened
Mr K and Mrs K had a joint account with Barclays.
On 24 March 2022 Barclays sent a letter to Mr K notifying him that Mr K and Mrs Ks joint 
account would be closing on 25 May 2022. Barclays didnt send a letter to Mrs K.
On 29 March 2022 Mrs K contacted Barclays to find out why her debit card wasnt working. 
Barclays informed her that their joint account had been closed, and the overdraft removed.
Mrs K complained to Barclays. She explained that she hadnt been notified about the 
closure, and this had caused her immense stress in having to rearranging direct debits and 
standing orders.
Barclays accepted they could have provided better service, and paid Mrs K £100 
compensation for their failure to notify her about the closure. But, they maintained their 
actions in closing the account were fair.
Mr K and Mrs K werent happy so brought their complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint. They thought Barclays 
actions in closing Mr K and Mrs Ks account werent fair, and asked Barclays to pay an 
additional £300 compensation along with refunding the travel pack fees.
Barclays didnt accept the recommendation  they argued that Mr K and Mrs K had access 
to the benefit during the closure notice period.
Mrs K didnt accept the recommendation  and explained that the level of stress she 
experienced was much more significant than £300.
After the view was issued Barclays made an offer of £500 additional compensation to Mrs K 
for the impact on all of her accounts, including the joint account with Mr K. But, Mrs K didnt 
accept the offer.
Mrs Ks sole accounts are being considered by our service under a separate complaint. I 
wont be commenting on them in my decision.
As neither party accepted our investigators recommendation its been passed to me to 
decide.
On picking up Mr K and Mrs Ks decision I requested more information from Barclays 
regarding their reason to close their account and remove the overdraft. Barclays provided 
evidence to show their reasons for closing Mr K and Mrs K account and advised the 
overdraft was cancelled due to it having more than three unpaid transactions.
I reviewed Mr K and Mrs Ks complaint, and reached a similar conclusion to our investigator 
for slightly different reasons. I recommended that Mr K and Mrs K were compensated £400 
for the inconvenience caused to them. But I didnt think the travel pack fees needed to be 
refunded. 
Barclays advised they had nothing further to add to my decision. Mrs K, on behalf of Mr K 
and Mrs K, indicated they accepted however she added:
The account might have been open until May 2022 but they couldnt use the account 
and it was effectively closed with immediate effect.
Other cases with less aggravation have received higher compensation than £400
They couldnt access the travel pack benefits so shouldnt have to pay for them
Ive considered Barclays and Mrs Ks responses and reviewed my outcome below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
Account closure
Barclays can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and
conditions of the account. Barclays have relied on the terms and conditions when closing
Mr K and Mrs Ks account. The terms explain that the bank can close an account by giving
60 days notice. Ive considered the full circumstances of this complaint and Im satisfied
Barclays acted fairly when providing the full notice period.
However, Im aware this isnt Mr K and Mrs Ks main complaint point. They are more
concerned about Mrs K not being notified. Barclays have accepted that they didnt notify
Mrs K, theyve apologised for the impact caused and credited Mrs K £100.
Removal of the overdraft
Barclays have advised our service that the overdraft was cancelled due to Mr K and Mrs K
having more than three unpaid transactions. From the evidence Ive seen Im not clear on
when the overdraft was removed  however, I can see an overdraft of £1,200 was in place at
the start of March 2022 but was removed by April 2022.
Ive seen a copy of correspondence sent by Barclays to Mr K and Mrs K about the overdraft
prior to the removal. Im aware that Mr K and Mrs K were in their overdraft for most of the 
time in the months prior to March 2022, however in the letters sent theres no mention Mr K 
and Mrs K have exceeded their limit or the overdraft would be removed if payment isnt 
made.
Ive seen a copy of a policy advising on actions Barclays will take if customers are exceeding
their overdraft limit. But, this has no mention of unpaid payments and I cant see the
relevance of this in Mr K and Mrs Ks case. Ive not seen any evidence they were exceeding
their limit or had any unpaid payments prior to the overdraft being removed. I note a demandletter was sent by Barclays for £1,062.02 on 29 March 2022. But, this was within the
previously agreed overdraft limit of £1,200. And Ive seen no evidence Mr K and Mrs K were
notified this was being removed, or an explanation as to why. It follows I cant conclude
Barclays actions in removing Mr K and Mrs Ks overdraft were fair. 
Ive considered the impact of Barclays failure to notify Mrs K about the account closure, and
the removal of the overdraft without notification or an explanation. I appreciate that it was
likely frustrating for Mrs K to not receive a letter from Barclays notifying her of the account
closure, however, as Mr K was informed and Mrs K found out soon after I cant say £100 is
unfair compensation for this.
But, I am of the opinion unfairly removing Mr K and Mrs Ks overdraft and not notifying them
caused significant inconvenience. Mrs K explained she was distressed by their actions
including phoning up Barclays to try to find out why her debit card wasnt operational. They
were further impacted by direct debits and standing orders being left unpaid, having to
rearrange the payments and receiving letters asking for repayment of the overdraft balance.
If Barclays kept the overdraft in place until 25 May 2022, as Id have expected them to do,
Mr K and Mrs K would have had access to the credit facility for an additional 60 days and a
reasonable timeframe to rearrange their direct debits and standing orders.
Im satisfied this caused Mr K and Mrs K distress. Ive considered our bandings for distress
and inconvenience  and I think an additional £400 compensation is fair.
Ive reviewed Mr K and Mrs Ks statements and I cant see any associated charges from the
unpaid direct debits, however, if there are any Id expect Barclays to refund these. However, 
I wont be asking Barclays to refund the travel pack insurance payments. Barclays
have shared evidence which shows this monthly benefit was in place until 25 May 2022. 
Therefore, I cant say the charges taken in April and May were unfair.
Barclays made an offer of £500 to Mrs K regarding the inconvenience caused to her.
However, this offer was made for all of Mrs Ks accounts not just her joint account with Mr K.
Therefore I havent taken this offer into consideration in my decision.
Ive considered Mrs K response to my provisional decision. 
Mrs Ks advised that her and Mr K couldnt use the account immediately even though they 
were given 60 days notice. I agree that because of the removal of the overdraft, soon after 
the account was closed, the account was effectively closed immediately. I havent 
considered whether Barclays acted fairly in applying the terms and conditions for immediate 
closure in this case. Instead, Ive looked at whether Barclays acted fairly in removing the 
overdraft when they did as this is why Mr K and Mrs K felt their account was closed without 
notice. And as I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think Barclays acted fairly in 
doing so. 
Mrs K argues that the level of aggravation her and Mr K experienced should be higher than a 
£400 award. Ive reconsidered the amount I recommended in my provisional decision. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that this in line with our awards for the impact on Mr K and 
Mrs K. I think they experienced inconvenience in the credit facility being unfairly removed, 
but Im satisfied £400 is fair compensation for this. 
Mrs Ks final point relates to the travel pack insurance benefits. I understand Mrs Ks 
argument that as the account wasnt operational they couldnt use the associated benefits  
however Im afraid I dont agree. Ive seen nothing to indicate the travel pack benefit couldnt 
be used during the notice to close period. It follows, I cant say Barclays should refund these 
charges. Putting things right
I think Barclays should pay Mr K and Mrs K an additional £400 for the inconvenience caused 
to them in unfairly removing the overdraft without notice. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays UK PLC to:
Pay Mr K and Mrs K £400 for the inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman