DRN-1681281
The complaint
Mr O complains about the quality of a car he bought using a credit card supplied by NewDay 
Ltd (NewDay), trading as Aqua. Hes disappointed they havent considered a claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) and that a 
chargeback request was unsuccessful.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr O made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
The car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. The relevant law also says 
the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the 
other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr O. The car here 
was fifteen years old and although it had completed a lower than average mileage when 
supplied, I think, given its age, a reasonable person would expect it to be exhibiting signs of 
wear and tear.
Mr O has explained that he had problems with the battery and timing chain resolved shortly 
after he took receipt of the car. The relevant legislation gives a business an opportunity to 
repair any faults that may have been present when the car was supplied so I think the 
business did the right thing.
He says that subsequently, warning lights on the dashboard are still present and that 
roadside recovery services have suggested there are several problems with the vehicle. But 
Ive not seen evidence of those faults and in the absence of evidence the car is now faulty, 
and that those faults were present at the point the car was supplied, I dont think it is 
reasonable to ask NewDay to support Mr Os request to reject the vehicle. As theres no 
evidence the contract has been breached.
For similar reasons I dont think there is evidence that a chargeback request could have 
succeeded. I think NewDay were reasonable when requesting an arbitration of this with the 
chargeback scheme provider. But the merchant defended the chargeback request that 
NewDay made and, as the scheme provider rejected the claim on the evidence provided, I 
dont think NewDay could have done anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman