DRN-2811923
The complaint
The estate of Mrs H, represented by Mr P, complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC hasnt been 
able to locate an account on its systems. 
What happened
Mr P recently came across a deposit receipt dated 1970 and a letter dated 1985, indicating 
that the late Mrs H made a deposit of £2,000 into a bank account. Mr P traced the history of 
these banks to the current owner, which is HSBC. So, he complained to HSBC as he 
thought it held money in the name of the estate.
Mr P provided HSBC with copies of the documents to help it locate the account. However, 
HSBC wasnt able to find any products or accounts connected with Mrs H. Unhappy with 
how HSBC had handled matters, Mr P brought the complaint to this service.
One of our investigators reviewed matters. He thought that due to the length of time that had 
passed, there wasnt enough evidence to suggest that the funds were still held by HSBC. He 
also thought that because HSBC had no records of accounts in Mrs Hs name, he didnt 
think he could rule out that the funds had already been withdrawn some years ago.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators findings. In summary, he thought that the deposit 
receipt was evidence that the funds hadnt been withdrawn, as it stated that the receipt must 
be produced upon withdrawal of funds. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has provided a copy of a deposit receipt for £2,000. He says that not only is this 
evidence that funds were deposited, but also that the funds havent yet been withdrawn. He 
says this because the deposit receipt includes some text, outlining that it must be produced 
upon withdrawal of funds, suggesting that the funds must still be held in the account. 
Whilst I think the deposit receipt shows that its more likely than not that funds were 
deposited in 1970, Im not persuaded that it shows the funds are still held with the bank. I 
say this because records have been computerised over the years and so banks didnt 
always require deposit receipts to be returned upon withdrawal of funds. So, whilst the 
deposit receipt may show that funds were deposited in 1970, Im not persuaded it shows that 
the funds have not since been withdrawn.
HSBC has sent us screenshots of the searches it has carried out to try and locate the 
account. The screenshots show HSBC searched its systems using the information provided 
on the deposit receipt  including Mrs Hs name, addresses and date of birth. Despite 
inputting all of this information, it wasnt able to locate any accounts or products linked with 
Mrs H.
Given the length of time that has passed since the date of the deposit receipt, I dont 
consider it unusual or unreasonable that HSBC isnt able to locate any information. I say this 
because banks arent generally expected to keep records for longer than six years. The most 
recent correspondence referencing the deposit is dated around 35 years ago, and the 
deposit receipt itself is from around 50 years ago. 
Because of this duration of time, HSBC says it cant rule out that the funds havent already 
been withdrawn in the years that have passed. I dont consider this unreasonable given the 
length of time that has passed. However, I would still expect HSBC to demonstrate it carried 
out a thorough search of its systems in the circumstances. And, having reviewed the 
screenshots of the searches it carried out, Im satisfied that it has.
So overall, Im satisfied that HSBC has taken reasonable steps to try and locate the account 
in question. It follows that I cant fairly ask HSBC to do anything more in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman