DRN-1400351
The complaint
Mr L in unhappy that he was provided with incorrect information by Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited about the total value he would receive as settlement for his stolen car. The 
cheque he received was for a lower amount than he agreed. He was also unhappy that he 
didn't receive a refund of any insurance premium as his policy was cancelled following the 
claim. 
What happened
Mr L has his car insurance with Markerstudy. When taking out the policy he was asked 
where he parked his vehicle overnight. He confirmed 'on the drive'. Markerstudy agreed 
cover and included an endorsement on his policy for his car to be parked off-road between 
10pm and 6am. 
One night Mr L had visitors, and so he parked his car on the road. The next day he 
discovered it had been stolen. He made a claim under his insurance policy. 
Markerstudy agreed to settle the claim as a total loss. But as Mr L had parked his car off- 
road, and confirmed his did so 50% of the time, it applied a proportionate reduction to the 
settlement amount, as the premium would have been more had he disclosed this when 
taking out the policy. It initially sent an amount of £5,148.50 in settlement of the claim - which 
included the £500 excess and the reduction.
Mr L felt his car was worth more and in a call with Markerstudy it agreed to increase its offer 
to £7,000 for the car. He enquired how much he would be sent, and he was told £1,351.50. 
But when the cheque arrived it was only for £434.50. So he complained about being given 
incorrect information and that none of his insurance premium had been refunded. 
Markerstudy explained that as the claim was paid the full insurance premium was payable. It 
did, however, accept that he had been given incorrect information about the payment and 
paid £75 compensation for the error. 
Our investigator agreed this was a fair way to resolve the complaint. Mr L agreed with the 
outcome apart from the amount he was paid and has asked for the matter to be reviewed. 
He doesn't accept that a human error occurred as the same figure was mentioned several 
times during the call. He doesn't accept the outcome is fair or that £75 is fair compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L's claim has been agreed and the only issue for me to consider is whether he has 
received a fair settlement for his stolen car. In particular, Mr L believes he should be paid 
£1,351.50 as this was the amount he told in a call with Markerstudy. 
Mr L's policy entitles him to the market value of the car - the cost of replacing his car with 
one of the same make, model, specification and condition. Markerstudy's engineers reached 
a valuation taking into account trade guide valuations. These are the same trade guides that 
we use, amongst other information, to establish the market value of a car. They valued the car between approximately £5,500 and £7,100. Markerstudy initially offered the mid-range in 
settlement of the claim, which we would find fair. 
But the settlement included a reduction as Mr L hadn't kept his car off-road overnight. Under 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) an insurer is 
able to take certain action in regard to a policy if there has been a qualifying 
misrepresentation; that is a misrepresentation which affected the terms on which an insurer 
is willing to provide cover. 
Markerstudy has provided evidence that it would have charged Mr L a higher premium had it 
been aware he parked his car on the road. Under CIDRA, Markerstudy is able to reduce a 
settlement proportionately. Mr L doesn't dispute that he parked his car on the road overnight, 
or that Markerstudy is entitled to reduce the settlement accordingly. It's because of that, that 
the cheque Mr L was sent was for a lower amount. 
The cheque for £434.50 brought the settlement amount to £5,583. This is the £7,000 
settlement agreed to by Mr L less 13.1% reduction for the misrepresentation and £500 
excess. It is unfortunate that Mr L was told he would be sent a cheque for £1,351.50, which 
was the incorrect amount; it doesn't appear the call handler took into account the 
reduction. But he nevertheless accepted a value of £7,000 for his car. So the total amount 
he received is correct. 
All the parties accept Mr L was given the wrong information about the cheque. But I don't 
agree it would be fair for Mr L to be given that amount to put this right; that would mean he 
would be paid more than the market value of his car, more than he was entitled to under the 
terms of his policy. Instead, Mr L should be put in the position he would be in, had he been 
told the right amount.  I find that is the position now finds himself, having been paid a fair 
settlement for his claim.
It is right that Mr L should be compensated for the inconvenience this has caused.  In all the 
circumstances, I find the £75 sent to Mr L to be a fair reflection of the impact this error had. I 
leave it to Mr L to decide whether he now wishes to accept that. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint as it has already been fairly resolved. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman