DRN-4326802
The complaint
Mrs Z complains that MetLife Europe d.a.c. (MetLife) has unfairly refused to meet a claim 
she made on her health insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Z has a policy which pays varying amounts if she has an accident or illness. In particular 
it could pay up to £40,000 if Mrs Z contracts certain illnesses listed in the policy terms and 
conditions.
Mrs Z was diagnosed, in 2022 with one of the listed illnesses. She approached MetLife to 
make a claim and MetLife agreed to consider this. MetLife obtained medical reports, and 
said it believed Mrs Z would have contracted the disease years earlier, even if she hadnt 
had any symptoms. It said that the policy didnt cover her illness if it had been contracted 
before she bought the policy and wouldnt meet the claim.
Mrs Z complained but MetLife didnt change its position. So she asked us to review her 
complaint. Our investigator didnt think MetLife had acted unfairly. They thought MetLife had 
relied upon medical evidence that demonstrated Mrs Z did, most likely, contract her illness 
before she bought the policy, and so MetLife need not meet her claim.
Mrs Z doesnt think this is fair, and says she had no way of knowing that she had the illness 
before she bought the policy.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mrs Z has been ill, and trust shes making a full recovery.
Im afraid Im not going to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator gave.
Ive carefully considered the terms and conditions supplied with this policy. They say that 
infectious diseases contracted before the policy start date arent covered, nor are they 
covered if any tests or investigations been recommended. Neither of those exclusions are 
unusual in a policy of this type.
MetLife says Mrs Zs illness falls into the first of these categories, so it need not meet the 
claim. 
Ive gone on to look at the medical information relied upon by MetLife. Its from several 
medical experts. In summary, it seems that there can be years between infection and the 
start of symptoms for the illness Mrs Z has. And it appears her tests show that the illness is 
chronic, which generally means long term. There appear to have been at least three 
occasions where Mrs Z  through no fault of her own  may have contracted the illness. All 
of these occasions were before Mrs Z bought the policy.
I think it reasonable that MetLife relies upon expert medical opinions when deciding if it 
should meet a claim. Here Im satisfied that there is sufficient independent evidence that Mrs 
Z most likely contracted the illness before she bought the policy. 
I do understand why Mrs Z says this isnt absolute proof that she contracted the illness 
before the policy start date. But I havent seen anything that suggests its more likely she 
contracted the illness after the start date. 
On balance, I dont think MetLife has unfairly refused this claim. If however Mrs Z obtains 
medical evidence that she contracted the illness after she bought the policy Id expect 
MetLife to re-consider the claim. If Mrs Z is able to obtain such evidence Id think that she 
should do that within a reasonable time, say three months from the date of this decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman