DRN-3504035
The complaint
Mr U complains Hiscox Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined his cycle insurance 
claim.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr U claimed for a stolen bike on his Hiscox cycle insurance policy. In 
January 2021 Hiscox decline the claim. It said Mr U had failed to lock his bike to an 
immoveable with an approved lock  so he hadnt met his policys requirements for a 
successful claim. 
Mr U wasnt happy with that decision. In response to his complaint Hiscox repeated that the 
bike hadnt been, at the time of loss, secured in line with the requirements of his policy.  So it 
continued to refuse his claim. Mr U wasnt satisfied so came to this service. He wants his 
claim to be paid. 
Our investigator felt Hiscox had unfairly declined the claim. Essentially, she believed the 
circumstances of the theft had met the policys requirements. So she recommended Mr Us 
claim be paid. She also said Hiscox should pay Mr U £100 compensation to recognise the 
unnecessary inconvenience caused by the refusal. Hiscox didnt accept the assessment. So 
the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.   
In June 2022 I issued a provisional decision. In it I explained why I didnt intend to require 
Hiscox to settle Mr Us claim. As those reasons form part of this final decision, Ive copied 
them in below. I also invited Mr U and Hiscox to provide any further information they would 
like me to consider before I issued my final decision.    
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to require Hiscox to settle Mr Us claim. 
Mr Us policy says Hiscox will insure his cycle against theft while at his home and 
whilst away from it. Home is defined as the location stated in his policy schedule 
where the cycle is usually kept. 
The definition goes on to provide a range of examples or qualifiers of whats meant 
by home. As examples these include Your private dwelling built of brick, stone . 
and a secured gated car park with the boundaries of your private dwelling.  These 
are relevant as Hiscox has said the area the bike was stolen from doesnt fall within 
the policys definition of home. 
 
According to Mr U the bike was stolen from his apartments communal hallway. As I 
understand it this can be entered and exited through a locked doorway that leads to a 
secured carpark which exits to a public street. It seems access can also be achieved 
from another secured entrance to the complex.  
In my opinion, when considering the full definition of home given by the policy, 
Hiscoxs unreasonable to say the hallway area doesnt fall within it. The bike wasnt 
stolen from within Mr Us own private flat or dwelling. However the policy accepts the 
following as home - a secure gated car park within the boundaries of his private 
dwelling which is accessed by residents and their guests only. 
It also states as home  anywhere else within the boundaries of Mr Us private 
dwelling. It seems to me that if the car park can be within the boundaries of his 
private dwelling then, considering where its found physically, the hallway must also 
reasonably be within its boundary.
So its reasonable to say Mr Us bike was stolen from the home. However the policy 
terms state Hiscox will only pay out for a theft from the home if one of the listed 
requirements is met. These are set out in the policy terms on page 12 as (2a 2h). 
Unfortunately I cant fairly say that the circumstances of the theft met any of them. 
Requirement 2h doesnt require the theft to be from a specific location within the 
home. It simply says the policy will pay if the cycle is stolen when secured through 
the frame by an approved lock to an immovable object. Im satisfied from Mr Us 
claim application that he was aware of the need to use an approved lock. However, 
Hiscox says the theft didnt meet this requirement. It points out that whilst an 
approved lock was used it wasnt secured to an immovable object. The approved 
lock was only secured to an immovable object via a less secure non-approved cable. 
I cant say Hiscoxs position on this is unfair. 
Our investigator felt requirement 2b had been met. This refers to a theft from within 
Mr Us private dwelling. However the bike was stolen from a communal hallway. As 
Ive said its reasonable to say thats within the boundaries of the private dwelling  
but not in the private dwelling itself. So I cant say the circumstances met that term 
either.
Requirements 2c and 2d refer to thefts from outbuildings, garages, sheds and 
secured car parks within the boundaries of Mr Us private dwelling. However, I cant 
say any of these align with the circumstances  with the bike being taken from the 
communal hallway rather than a car park or shed for example. Ive considered the 
remaining requirements in section 2  but I cant say any of those were met either. 
So I dont currently intend to find that Hiscoxs decision to refuse Mr Us claim was 
unfair or unreasonable. That means I dont intend to require it to settle his claim  nor 
pay him any compensation for having failed to settle it earlier. 
Mr Us referred to Hiscox paying out on a previous claim in similar circumstances. I 
cant comment on that claim or decision  only the one thats the subject of this 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither Mr U nor Hiscox provided a response to my provisional decision. So I dont see any 
reason to come to a different outcome. That means, for the reasons set out above, Hiscoxs 
decision to refuse Mr Us claim wasnt unfair or unreasonable. And I dont require it to settle 
his claim  nor pay him any compensation for having failed to do so earlier. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Hiscox Insurance Company Limited to settle 
Mr Us claim or do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman