DRN-4173674
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complain that AWP P&C SA (AWP) has unfairly declined a claim they made 
against their Home Emergency policy.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs P had a home emergency policy underwritten by AWP. In August 2022 Mr P 
and Mrs P said their only toilet was blocked. Mr P and Mrs P said as theyd a young baby 
and elderly parents living at their home it was critical that the blockage was removed. They 
said they called numerous plumbers and eventually it was arranged for the work to be done 
the next day. The plumber found the blockage wasnt within the toilet but an external pipe. 
Mr P and Mrs P were invoiced £450 for the repair work. They said they tried to make a claim 
for the costs against their home insurance policy the next day but were told that drainage 
wasnt covered. And they found they needed to make the claim instead against their home 
emergency policy cover. But when they did the claim was declined by AWP as they hadnt 
reported the emergency within 48 hours, and the costs for rectification hadnt been 
authorised by AWP. Mr P and Mrs P complained to AWP.
AWP said theyd declined the claim fairly within the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr P 
and Mrs P werent happy with AWPs response and referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator said AWP had acted within the terms and conditions of the home 
emergency policy.
Mr P and Mrs P didnt agree they said it wasnt fair to decline the claim for failing to read the 
small print of the policy at the time of a critical emergency. And theyd struggled to navigate 
the claims process. They asked for an ombudsman to decide.
A provisional decision was issued in May 2023 that said: 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Home emergency insurance is a type of insurance designed to provide an emergency 
response to specific sudden and unforeseen emergency situations that may arise in the 
home. For example, as in Mr P and Mrs Ps case when a toilet is blocked and there isnt 
another one in the household.
I can understand Mr P and Mrs Ps frustration as they found themselves in a situation, they 
needed put right quickly. Ive considered the policy terms for Mr P and Mrs Ps home 
emergency cover.
On page three of the policy it prominently says:
"24hr home emergency (Always call within 48 hours of discovering the emergency)"
Under the section General Conditions
1. We will only pay the benefits under this policy if you contact us first within 48 hours of 
discovering the emergency
Under the section General Exclusions
2. Costs we have not authorised. Always phone us first.
Mr P and Mrs P said the toilet became blocked on 9 August 2022 and they made their claim 
to their insurer the next day, which would be within 48 hours of discovering the emergency. 
But from Mr P and Mrs Ps testimony this was under a different insurance policy and they 
were told to claim under their home emergency cover. From AWPs notes Mr P and Mrs P 
didnt get in touch under their home emergency policy until 30 August 2022. And the contact 
made by Mr P and Mrs P wasnt to report discovery of the emergency but to claim for the 
outlay of costs theyd incurred in getting the emergency resolved. AWP has applied the 
General Conditions and General Exclusion terms in declining Mr P and Mrs Ps claim.
I can understand Mr P and Mrs P instructing their own plumber as they needed the toilet to 
be useable given it was the only toilet they had. But the fact is there has been a breach of 
the terms and conditions here as they didnt contact AWP first.
Im satisfied its clear within the policy that Mr P and Mrs P needed to contact AWP first, 
before incurring any costs. This is so that AWP can check the policy covers the situation 
being claimed for and manage the costs for anything covered by the policy  and AWP 
werent given an opportunity to do this first. While Im satisfied AWP acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy when declining the claim, Ive considered the Insurance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) here. ICOBS: 8.1.1 R says an insurer must not 
unreasonably reject a claim
ICOBS: 8.1.2A G sets out the circumstances where it would be unreasonable for an insurer 
to reject a claim. This section refers to the Insurance Act 2015. The relevant provision which 
applies here is S.11 of the Insurance Act 2015 which refers to terms which arent relevant to 
the actual loss. This goes further to say:
11. (1)This section applies to a term (express or implied) of a contract of insurance, other 
than a term defining the risk as a whole, if compliance with it would tend to reduce the risk of 
one or more of the following
(a) loss of a particular kind,
(b) loss at a particular location,
(c) loss at a particular time.
(2) If a loss occurs, and the term has not been complied with, the insurer may not rely on the 
non-compliance to exclude, limit or discharge its liability under the contract for the loss if the 
insured satisfies subsection (3).
(3) The insured satisfies this subsection if it shows that the non-compliance with the term 
could not have increased the risk of the loss which actually occurred in the circumstances in 
which it occurred.Im required to take account of the law, and regulatory rules, when reaching fair and 
reasonable decisions and so its right that I take account of both ICOBS and the Insurance 
Act 2015 when reaching my decision. And, in summary, this says, if there has been non- 
compliance by a customer of a term within the policy, a claim rejection by an insurer would 
be unreasonable unless the circumstances of the claim were connected to the non- 
compliance of the term.
When applying ICOBS: 8.1.2A G and S.11 of the Insurance Act 2015, its clear a loss has 
occurred and the term requiring Mr P and Mrs P to report it to AWP first hasnt been 
complied with. But I think AWP can only rely on Mr P and Mrs Ps breach of the terms to 
justify their decision to decline the claim if their non-compliance has increased the risk of the 
loss which occurred. I dont think thats the case here.
The invoice from Mr P and Mrs Ps plumber shows the work to clear the blockage was done 
on 10 August 2022, the day after Mr P and Mrs P discovered their toilet was blocked  so, 
within 48 hours. While I agree they didnt report it to AWP first, I cant say this non-
compliance with the term of the policy is connected to the circumstances of the claim.
And the invoice confirms the blockage was cleared and the flow improved so the costs were 
mitigated. So, I cant say that, Mr P and Mrs P in failing to report the emergency to AWP first, 
increased the risk of the loss occurring in the circumstances of this case.
So, AWP should now reconsider Mr P and Mrs Ps claim further, in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. While AWP can make any further enquiries, they feel are 
necessary in considering Mr P and Mrs Ps claim, I dont think its reasonable for them to use 
the terms theyd applied to decline the claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party has asked for any further representations to be considered.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask AWP P&C SA to reconsider Mr P and Mrs Ps claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman