DRN-3194449
The complaint
Mr C, a director of P, complains about the decision of Arch Insurance (UK) Limited to decline 
Ps business interruption insurance claim for losses following the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
P had a retail insurance policy underwritten by Arch. The policy provided cover for a number 
of areas, including for loss of income as a result of business interruption. Mr C has said that, 
in March 2020, he became ill with COVID-19 and was unable to run his business. 
Additionally, that because of restrictions on setting up physical premises and a downturn in 
the economy as a result of the pandemic, P suffered a loss of income.
Mr C made a claim under the policy for Ps losses. I will briefly note here that the claims 
process also involved the administrator of the policy, but for the sake of simplicity I have just 
referred to Arch.
Arch declined the claim. It said that the core loss of income cover related to situations where 
damage had led to an interruption of the business, but that there was no damage to property 
here. Arch also said that there were two extensions to this cover which were potentially 
relevant; the Disease, Murder and Defective Sanitation and the Public Emergency 
extensions. However, the cover provided by the Disease extension was limited to a 
specified list of illnesses, and this didnt include COVID-19. And the Public Emergency 
extension only provided cover for localised events, rather than a nationwide pandemic.
Mr C was unhappy with this, and when Arch did not alter its position, he referred Ps 
complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld 
though. He agreed with the reasons given by Arch when declining the claim. And so thought 
Arch hadnt done anything wrong. He also didnt think that the term Plague in the specified 
list of illnesses was a broad term or than Mr C had shown that he had suffered from any of 
the illnesses listed. 
As Mr C remained unsatisfied, Ps complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on P, as well as the 
health concerns Mr C has suffered. But, largely for the same reasons the Investigator set 
out, I wont be upholding Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Whilst the relevant section in Ps policy is called Loss of Income, the type of cover its 
looking to claim under is business interruption insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy P took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Ps policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Ps business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ps claim. And I think 
Arch acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ps claim under this area of cover.
Public Emergency extension
The first extension to the business interruption cover I will specifically deal with is the Public 
Emergency extension. This provides cover for losses arising from:
the actions or advice of a government or local authority due to an emergency likely 
to endanger life or property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or hinders 
the use of or access to the Premises
The extension does also have a number of exclusions, but before it is necessary to consider 
whether any of these apply it must be shown that there is a valid claim under this clause. 
From looking at Ps insurance documents, it seems likely that Ps insured premises are 
actually Mr Cs residential property and that Ps sales were carried out online from this 
property (or an uninsured location). As such, it does not seem Mr C, or anyone else, would 
have been prevented or hindered from using or accessing the insured premises for the 
purpose of carrying out Ps business. And whilst I note Mr Cs comments about his potential 
ability to expand Ps activities to physical premises, those premises were not insured and 
physical sales were not the activity of the business when the policy was taken out. As such, 
it doesnt seem likely P has a valid claim under this extension. 
However, for completeness, I have considered whether P might have been able to claim 
were use of or access to its premises hindered or prevented. In doing so, one of the things 
Im required to take into account is the relevant law. I think the High Court judgment following 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case (The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) v 
Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2020] EWHC 2448 (Comm)) is relevant to this complaint, 
because the High Court considered terms similar to those above and this part of the 
judgment wasnt appealed.
Paragraphs 466-467 of the judgment say, in part:
we do not consider that the entire country can be described as in the vicinity of the 
insured premises on the wording of this policy. It follows that the government action 
and advice in response to the national pandemic cannot be said to be due to an 
emergency in the vicinity, in the sense of in the neighbourhood, of the insured 
premises.
There could only be cover under this wording if the insured could also demonstrate 
that it was an emergency by reason of COVID-19 in the vicinity, in that sense of the 
neighbourhood, of the insured premises, as opposed to the country as a whole, 
which led to the actions or advice of the government.Given the similarities between the wording in Ps policy and that considered by the court, I 
see no reason to depart from the judgment in this case. And I think this extension in Ps 
policy was intended to provide cover in the event of an emergency in Ps local area. While 
there may well have been a number of cases of COVID-19 within the vicinity of Ps 
premises, I dont think the UK Governments response to the national pandemic was due to 
an emergency in Ps vicinity as opposed to the country as a whole. It follows that I consider 
Arch acted fairly and reasonably when declining the claim Mr C made for losses to Ps 
business under this extension. 
Disease extension
A further extension to the business interruption section of the policy relates to Disease. 
However, this provides cover in relation to, in part:
the occurrence of
1. Acute Encephalitis Acute Poliomyelitis Anthrax Chickenpox Cholera 
Diphtheria Dysentery Legionellosis Legionnaires Disease Leprosy 
Leptospirosis Malaria Measles Meningococcal Infection Mumps 
Ophthalmia Neonatorum Paratyphoid Fever Plague Rabies Rubella Scarlet 
Fever Smallpox Tetanus Tuberculosis Typhoid Fever Viral Hepititus 
Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever at the Premises

where use of the Premises is restricted on the advice or order of the competent 
authority

Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided P with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt one 
of the diseases listed in the definition.
I dont think Arch intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. Arch 
deliberately chose to define the cover provided by reference to a static list of certain 
diseases. I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its 
an exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy P has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy P has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy 
does not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the 
policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the 
defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
I note Mr Cs comments that COVID-19 did lead to people suffering from other conditions. 
He has said that in his case this was a bacterial chest infection and he considers this should 
fall under the category of Plague. However, I agree with the Investigator that the term 
Plague in the context of Ps policy is limited to the specific disease caused by Yersinia pestis bacteria. And Mr C has not provided any evidence to show that it was most likely this 
is what his chest infection was. Whilst I note his comments on the availability of access to 
medical services at this time, it is the policyholders responsibility to show that an insured 
event has occurred. And given the circumstances of this claim, and the evidence provided, I 
am not persuaded Mr C most likely suffered from Plague or any other disease listed in the 
policy.
I would also add that this extension also has the requirement for use of the insured premises 
to have been restricted as a result of the insured disease. And it does not appear these are 
the circumstances of this claim. But as I am not persuaded the initial elements of this clause 
have been met, I have not considered this in depth in this decision. 
Ps claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Ps policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Archs decision to decline the claim was in 
line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Arch should have met Ps claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for Mr C, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this policy doesnt 
offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C, on behalf of 
P, to accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman