DRN-2715077
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) mis-sold him an 
appliance protection insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr T had appliance protection insurance in place for his set-top box and a TV. When he 
ordered a new set-top box, Mr T was told he would no longer need the insurance because 
the equipment remained the property of the company that provided it, which I will call 
Company A. So, Mr T contacted D&G to discuss cancelling his policy. During the call, Mr T 
agreed to keep the policy.
Mr T contacted both D&G and Company A to ask them to explain whether there was a need 
for insurance for his set-top box and related equipment, given that the box was on loan to 
him and would therefore be repaired by Company A if there was an issue. Mr T was 
unhappy with the responses, so he complained to D&G and made a separate complaint to 
Company A. Mr T also cancelled the policy.
When D&G replied to the complaint, it said that it had listened to the sales calls and the 
information provided was correct. D&G said once the satellite dish was a year old it 
automatically became the property of the customer, so any issues with it werent covered by 
Company A. It said Mr T had also been able to insure his TV and laptop at no extra charge 
as part of the policy.
Mr T contacted D&G again because he said Company A had now advised that both the 
internal and external equipment was covered as part of his set-top box contract. He said he 
was still being misadvised about the purpose of the policy and that the only reason for it 
seemed to be if there was accidental damage to any of the equipment, as this wasnt 
covered. 
D&G replied and, following discussions with Company A, explained what equipment was 
loaned and therefore didnt need insurance and what was the property of the customer, so 
may benefit from insurance. D&G also explained that the policy provided accidental damage 
cover, as well as other benefits such as cover for two devices at no extra charge.
Mr T complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
D&Gs policy provided cover for equipment and issues that werent covered by the contract 
with Company A, such as accidental damage cover, so she hadnt seen evidence that the 
policy had been mis-sold.
As Mr T did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 25 February 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
I can only consider the parts of this complaint that relate to D&G. I am unable to comment on 
the actions of other companies as those parts of the complaint arent within the remit of this 
service. Ive also read all of the information and arguments provided even if I dont comment 
on them in my decision.
The issue Im considering is whether D&G mis-sold the policy to Mr T. Having considered all 
of the evidence, I think that it did. So, I currently intend to uphold the complaint. I will explain 
why.
Those selling insurance have a responsibility to provide clear and fair information about the 
cover provided so that consumers can make an informed decision about whether to buy it. 
Ive listened to the phone call where Mr T contacted D&G to cancel the policy. Mr T 
explained that he was moving to Company As newer set-top box contract and that he had 
been told that he didnt need the insurance any more. The call handler went through what 
the policy covered for the new set-top box covered. She said that the contract with Company 
A covered the set-top box, hub and remote control and that this was for breakdown, but not 
accidental damage. She also said that Mr T owned the cabling and the dish. 
The call handler then explained that the insurance policy provided protection for issues the 
contract with Company A didnt cover. She also explained other benefits of the policy such 
as accidental damage cover and insurance for up to two other devices. She said that Mr T 
had 14 days in which to cancel and would be sent further details in the post. She then asked 
Mr T whether, based on the information she had provided, he wanted to proceed. Mr T said 
yes. The call handler then cancelled the previous policy and set up a new policy for Mr T.
Over the next several days, Mr T contacted D&G and Company A to try and understand 
what was and wasnt covered under the new insurance policy. There seems to have been 
some considerable confusion during the email discussions, but D&G told Mr T:
I have located and listened to the sales call  and I can confirm the
information you have been provided is correct. Following discussions with [Company A] it 
has been advised once the Dish becomes a year old it is automatically the property of the 
customer and therefore not covered.
So, this meant that if a dish was less than 12 months old it was covered as part of the 
contract with Company A and the insurance wasnt required for that purpose. But Mr T 
wasnt told this when he spoke to the D&G call handler about the policy.  He was told the 
set-top box was covered, but that the dish and cabling were his property. 
Ive thought about what this meant in Mr Ts case. When Mr T complained to this service, he 
described what had been installed. This was a new set-top box and related equipment and a 
new dish. Mr T has confirmed that no new cabling was installed. So, this meant that Mr Ts 
dish was covered by Company A for the first 12 months. Mr T wasnt told this during the 
sales call and instead, in my view, was given the impression that Company A didnt cover 
the dish at all. 
Im aware that if there was a problem with the cabling, this was only covered if Mr T took out 
the policy. But Im not persuaded that Mr T would have taken out the policy if he had been 
made aware that this was the only part of the equipment that required cover. Im also aware 
that the policy provided accidental damage cover for all of the equipment, but I havent seen 
evidence to suggest that Mr T wanted this cover. 
So, thinking about all of the above, Im currently of the view that the policy was mis-sold to 
Mr T, as I dont think he was provided with clear and fair information, so that he could make 
an informed decision. Ive thought about what should happen as a result of this. Mr T cancelled the policy at the 
end of the 14-day cooling off period. D&G has said that it was unable to take the first 
payment, so I dont think there is any money to be refunded. However, Ive seen the 
considerable number of emails Mr T had to send in order to work out whether he needed the 
policy. It appears only to be due to Mr Ts persistence that he was able to get enough 
information in order to make an informed decision about whether he needed the policy. So, I 
currently intend to say that D&G should pay Mr T £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him.
Im aware that Mr T was concerned about whether other customers might also have been 
mis-sold the policy. However, Im only able to consider individual complaints and Ive made 
my decision based on the circumstances of this case only.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 27 March 2021. Both Mr T and D&G responded before that date and agreed with the 
findings in my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive no reason to revisit my previous findings. I uphold this complaint for the 
reasons given in my provisional decision.
  
Putting things right
D&G must pay Mr T £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Domestic & General Insurance Plc to pay Mr T £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman