DRN-3325789
The complaint
Miss W complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) went back on its agreement to spread 
the amount of the arrears outstanding on her mortgage account, over its remaining term.
What happened
Miss W says after losing her job because of the Covid pandemic, she agreed with Barclays a 
six- month Covid mortgage payment holiday from April 2020 until September 2020. Miss W 
says Barclays subsequently approved a further three-month interest only mortgage payment 
plan, between October 2020 and December 2020. Miss W says in January 2021, Barclays 
agreed to extend the interest only payment plan for a further three months, and during a 
telephone conversation she was led to believe any arrears on her mortgage account would 
be added to its remaining term. 
Miss W says she was then shocked to be told any arrears on her mortgage account needed 
to be settled following the payment plan ending at the end of March 2021. Miss W says 
Barclays have been pursuing her for this amount despite its previous agreement, which has 
caused her stress and upset. Miss W wants Barclays to agree to spread the amount of the 
arrears on her mortgage account over its remaining term, as it had previously agreed and to 
stop chasing her for this payment. 
Barclays says Miss W was made aware of how the latest payment plan worked, and she 
would need to settle the arrears for this three-month period. Barclays says it attempted to 
discuss an income and expenditure assessment with Miss W, to get a better understanding 
of her disposable income, but she declined to do so. Barclays feel it has done nothing wrong 
here.
Miss W wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Barclays had provided suitable forbearance to Miss W and although it could 
have been a little clearer in a  telephone conversation with her about how the arrears would 
be settled, it was mentioned more than once in that telephone call, the arrears needed to be 
addressed. The investigator says Barclays have attempted to contact Miss W to reach a 
suitable arrangement and go through an income and expenditure profile with her, which he 
felt was reasonable. The investigator felt Barclays were entitled to seek an arrangement for 
any arrears outstanding. 
Miss W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand Miss W has gone through a difficult time here. It would have been upsetting 
for her to believe any arrears accrued as a result of the payment holiday arrangements, she 
made with Barclays would simply be added to the remaining term of her mortgage account, 
then to be told that wasnt the case. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays agreed that any accrued arrears on 
Miss Ws mortgage account, following a short-term mortgage payment plan put in place for 
Miss W in January 2021, would be spread over its remaining term.
The first thing to say here from the information I have seen, is Barclays provided Miss W with 
forbearance during the difficult time she faced following her losing her job as a result of the 
Covid pandemic. I say this because Barclays not only provided Miss W with the maximum 
six-month Covid payment holiday from April 2020 as directed by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, it also went on to provide in October 2020, without any obligation, a further three- 
month interest only mortgage payment plan. In effect this meant up until December 2020, 
Barclays had consolidated any missed payments into her mortgage account. 
Miss Ws complaint centres around what was agreed when she contacted Barclays in 
January 2021. Miss W feels Barclays at that time, approved a further three-month interest 
only mortgage payment plan with any shortfall in her contractual monthly payments (CMP), 
being spread out over the remaining term of her mortgage. While I understand what Miss W 
says here, Im not fully persuaded by her argument. 
I say this because I have listened to the telephone call between Miss W and Barclays in 
early January 2021. In this call the advisor firstly makes clear the difference between the 
CMP and the reduced amount Miss W would pay over the next three months, would accrue 
as arrears going forward and would need to be settled once the short term plan expired, and 
this would be confirmed in writing. At this point during the call the advisor then discusses the 
impact of any interest rate changes on her mortgage account and Miss W asks if this would 
work like last time. 
Having listened to the call, while Miss W may not agree, Im satisfied the advisor was at that 
point talking about the potential changes in any interest rates and how the interest is 
charged, and while Miss W may have been referring to how her future long term payments 
going forward may work, it seems both are talking at crossed wires at this point. I cant say 
that the advisor told Miss W the mortgage arrears would be spread over the remaining term 
of her mortgage as she suggests, even if thats what Miss W may have thought was being 
said. 
What is important here is the conversation is then followed up with a letter from Barclays, in 
the letter I have seen dated 4 January 2021 it states: Upon expiry of this agreement you will 
need to contact us to agree to an arrangement for repayment of any arrears that have 
accrued. 
I can also see a reminder letter was sent to Miss W on 2 March 2021 where it states: You 
were advised when we agreed the reduction to your monthly payment amount that this 
would create a shortfall on your mortgage account. This shortfall is the difference between 
what you have paid during the term of this plan and what you would have paid had you 
continued with your full contractual monthly payments. We need to discuss the next steps to 
bring your mortgage account up to date.
With that in mind even if Miss W had believed her mortgage arrears would be spread over its 
remaining term, these letters explain that an arrangement needed to be made over any arrears and if there was any doubt over this, Miss W could have contacted Barclays 
following their receipt.   
From the call notes I have seen, it suggests Miss W may have put these letters to one side, 
but I cant hold Barclays responsible for that. Additionally, Barclays call notes suggest it 
attempted at the beginning of April 2021, to go through an income and expenditure 
assessment with Miss W, but she didnt feel able to deal with this. While perhaps this was 
still a difficult time for Miss W, Barclays were in all likelihood looking for a solution to make 
up the arrears that had accrued, based on her affordability.
So here, although Miss W feels Barclays have misled her in the telephone call in January 
2021, for the reasons I have already given I feel this was more a case of a misunderstanding 
and Barclays letters following this provide further clarity on what was agreed. 
Its reasonable to say that Barclays have provided forbearance to Miss W and were 
providing further assistance to her in January 2021 when it had no obligation to do so. Given 
all thats happened here, its not reasonable for me to tell Barclays, due to a 
misunderstanding in a telephone conversation, it must now add any arrears outstanding on 
Miss Ws mortgage for the duration of the mortgage term. 
I feel the sensible way forward here is for Miss W to present a full income and expenditure 
profile to Barclays, to evidence what is affordable to her to make up her mortgage arrears 
over an agreeable period of time.
While Miss W will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman