DRN-4043431
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with JPMorgan Funds Limiteds decision to suspend a fund that hes 
invested in, meaning he cannot sell despite the value dropping. 
What happened
In February 2022 JPMorgan suspended trading in the J.P. Morgan Emerging Europe Equity 
Fund, because of the level of Russian assets that the fund owned, which couldnt be sold 
due to the closure of the Russian stock market. It subsequently remained suspended due to 
various sanctions which prevented the sale of those assets. Its last day of trading was 25 
February 2022.
In November 2022 JPMorgan held an Extraordinary General Meeting for investors, to decide 
whether to split the fund in order to free up the liquid assets within the fund. This was agreed 
and a new fund was created, called the J.P. Morgan Emerging Europe Equity II Fund, and 
the liquid assets were moved into it. 
On 15 February 2022 Mr Ds holding was valued at around £11,000 and on 25 February it 
was around £7,400. In September 2022 an indicative value was given, of around £2,400. 
During 2022 Mr D made a complaint about the suspension of the fund and its continued drop 
in value. JPMorgan didnt uphold the complaint and explained the fund had been suspended 
to protect the interests of all shareholders. Mr D remained unhappy and brought the 
complaint to our service. 
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and found that JPMorgan had acted 
fairly and reasonably. She felt it wasnt unreasonable for the fund to be suspended at the 
time, or for the reasons it was suspended. She explained why it protects all investors 
interests and that JPMorgan had acted fairly in creating a second fund to allow some trading 
to be available to investors. 
Mr D didnt agree  he remains unhappy that hes been unable to make any withdrawals and 
has said the newly created fund is above his risk tolerance. As a result, the case has been 
passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. 
JPMorgan Funds Limited is the Authorised Corporate Director (ACD) of the fund. My role 
isnt to step into the ACDs shoes and say how JPMorgan ought to be managing the fund. 
Rather, my role is to consider whether theyve acted fairly and reasonably, taking into 
account the rules and regulations that apply, as well as applicable law and any terms 
governing their relationship with Mr D. The latter includes consideration of the various 
publicly available documents setting out how JPMorgan will manage the fund.  
The specific rules JPMorgan is governed by are largely set out in the COLL  Collective 
Investment Schemes section of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. More broadly, 
their main obligation is to act in the best interests of all the investors in the fund. That duty is 
owed to the investors as a group  which means they need to consider what is best for 
everyone, above what might be best for each individual investor. This means they cant 
prioritise Mr Ds needs above the other investors in the fund. 
JPMorgan has explained that over 60% of the assets within the fund were invested in 
Russian stock, and this is in line with what Ive seen of the paperwork explaining how the 
fund would be managed. The fund was suspended initially due to the closure of the Russian 
stock market, which meant the majority of the assets within the fund couldnt be sold. In turn 
that meant they couldnt be accurately priced. The price of each share Mr D holds in the fund 
is directly related to the cumulative price of the underlying assets  so if those assets 
couldnt be priced, then neither could his shares. 
Its not uncommon that trading in a fund is suspended in circumstances when the share price 
cant be accurately ascertained. This is to prevent withdrawals from the fund being made at 
incorrect prices, or at a time when capital cant be realised from the assets in the fund, which 
leaves any remaining investors in an unfair position. So, I dont think the initial decision by 
JPMorgan to suspend trading was unreasonable, given the background in which that 
decision was made. 
Once the Russian markets had reopened the fund remained suspended. JPMorgan has 
explained that this was due to the sanctions that had been imposed on any trading in 
Russian assets by anyone who wasnt Russian. The unprecedented nature of the sanctions 
imposed by various countries, has caused great upheaval in the financial markets  with 
consequences that are far reaching. The sanctions on buying and selling Russian assets 
meant that JPMorgan was unable to realise any of the money tied up in those assets within 
the fund and so wouldnt be able to fund withdrawal requests from all investors. Therefore, 
they wouldnt be able to act in the best interests of all the investors. Im satisfied this is a fair 
and reasonable reason to continue to suspend trading in the fund. 
I note that Mr D has said the newly created second fund is not appropriate for him. I can see 
from comparing the two, the main difference is that the first invested in Russia and the 
second does not  and currently cant. The aims of the funds are the same (bar the 
investment in Russia) and the benchmark JPMorgan uses to compare the performance of 
the funds is also the same for both. Its not JPMorgans role to ensure the new fund is 
suitable for Mr D  merely to manage it in line with its aims and in the best interest of the 
investors. So, I dont think it would be fair to say theyve done anything wrong in this regard. 
If he wishes, Mr D can sell his investment in the second fund or seek independent financial 
advice about the suitability of that fund for his needs and circumstances. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr D, as some of his investment remains inaccessible 
and it cant be easy to see it lose value like it has. However, the loss that hes experienced is 
beyond JPMorgans control. Ive seen nothing in their interaction with Mr D that persuades 
me JPMorgan has treated him unreasonably and Im glad to see that steps have been taken 
to unlock some of the amount invested, through the creation of the second fund. Overall, Im 
satisfied that JPMorgans response to the situation has been fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman