DRN-3943587
The complaint
Mr S complains that the value of his Legal & General Investment Management Ltd (Legal & 
General or L&G) pension fell. He said that L&G should have brought to his attention the 
pension freedoms in 2015 and the economic circumstances of 2022 to make him aware that 
his investment strategy may no longer be suitable. So he says L&G are responsible for his 
losses and he would like the losses to be reinstated.
What happened
Mr S started his L&G Group Self Invested Personal Pension (GSIPP) in 2010 through his 
employer. He left that employment in 2017 so contributions stopped. By June 2021 the value 
of the fund was £248,000. Following an additional contribution in April 2022 the value was 
£258,000 but when he came to transfer the scheme to another provider in June 2022 the 
value had fallen to £236,000.
He complained to L&G who reminded him that his pension was invested in a lifestyle 
solution which meant that by May 2016 the fund was invested mainly in gilts to target the 
purchase of an annuity. They explained that any fall in the value of the fund would be offset 
by a fall in the cost of annuities. L&G also explained that Mr S had invested in the Principal 
Lifestyle fund which was the default fund chosen by his former employer, not L&G.  He was 
free to change it at any time and indeed was encouraged by L&G to review the pension in 
his annual statements. 
Mr S did not accept this response so he brought his dispute to this service. Our investigator 
thought the complaint should not be upheld because it was not L&Gs responsibility to 
choose the funds in which Mr S invested, but to manage the pension following the 
instructions they were given, which they had done. The investigator pointed out that Mr S 
had been given statements over the years showing how the fund was invested and 
encouraging him to consider whether it remained suitable, so L&G had done nothing wrong.
Mr S did not accept this as he said he did not recall receiving that information. He felt that 
Legal & General had a duty to inform him of the introduction of pension freedoms in 2015 
and the economic upheaval of 2022 which caused the fall in value, to ensure that an 
annuity (and therefore his investment approach) was still the right option.
The complaint was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr S is disappointed that the value of his pension has fallen. But what I 
have to decide is whether L&G did anything wrong to cause those losses so I have 
considered carefully whether L&G either mismanaged the pension, or misled Mr S about 
how his pension was invested. 
I have considered carefully the information provided by both parties, including copies of 
annual statements from 2012, 2015, 2016, 2019 and 2021. The content of the statements 
evolved over time so I think that these five provide a representative sample of how L&G 
communicated with Mr S.
Mr S told this service that he did not recall receiving this information. But L&G have provided 
us with copy statements. And the overwhelming majority of post gets delivered, so even if Mr 
S does not recall all of the statements I think it is highly likely that he received this 
information. So I think it is reasonable to rely on the sample of statements as evidence of 
communication from L&G over the years.
Mr S invested in the default fund, Principal Lifestyle. This fund was chosen by his employer 
when setting up the scheme, not L&G. Lifestyle funds gradually switch from growth 
investments to those that aim to protect the value of the tax free cash and annuity that can 
be bought with the fund at the selected retirement age. L&Gs responsibility was to manage 
this process, and the underlying funds, but not to ensure that it was suitable for Mr Ss 
specific circumstances. 
I think Mr S should reasonably have known he was invested in a Lifestyle profile and that the 
fund value was not guaranteed. I also think he knew, or should have known, what sort of 
pension benefits his fund was targeting, and that other options were available. For example:
The 2012 statement said You can stop a lifestyle investment option at any time and 
choose from the different funds or lifestyle profiles available to you and Think about 
where your pension fund is invested.
The 2015 statement said For the advantages and disadvantages of Lifestyle Profiles 
please go to Manage Your Account.
In 2019 Current pension rules mean you have a number of options when it comes to 
how and when you take your money so its important for you to think about how your 
savings are invested during the course of your plan.
In 2021 You dont have to take the options shown in the projection. Theres a range 
of options about how and when you can access your pension savings. And does 
your investment choice suit how you plan to access your pension savings?  There 
are different investment solutions to meet your goals, go to your scheme website or 
employee portal. 
In 2012 he was told A lifestyle profile doesnt guarantee the value of your pension 
fund, so it can still fall in value. The value of investments can go down as well as up.
In 2016 his statement said, if he left the pension where it was, Your pension pot 
remains invested which means the value can go up or down. 
So I find that L&G did not mislead Mr S, or lead him to believe that the fund could not fall in 
value. Furthermore he was aware that he had other options if that was not what he wanted.  
Mr S was also made aware that his pension might not have been suitable depending on how 
he was intending to take his benefits. L&G regularly reminded him to keep his pension under 
review. Again, taking examples from personalised statements:
2016: Its important to consider whether you are still invested in the right funds, 
depending on what you intend to do with your pension pot in future.2021: You should regularly review your investment strategy to ensure it's still 
suitable for you. And you have a number of options when it comes to how and when 
you take your money so its important for you to think about how your savings are 
invested during the course of your plan. And You should consider what your 
pension savings are invested in and whether the pension product is right for your 
current situation.
If Mr S wanted to make changes but did not know what to do, L&G signposted him to other 
sources of information to help: 
2015: From age 55, its possible to access some or all of your pension pot. 
Whenever you decide to do this, you may wish to start planning for this around three 
to five years beforehand, for example reviewing how your pension pot is invested and 
what options may suit you best. To help, we've put together some information on 
what to consider now and what to expect when you are ready to take your pension 
benefits. See the Supporting Information document to find out more.
2016: If youre unsure speak to Pension Wise or seek financial advice. If we dont 
hear from you we will keep your pension pot invested until you tell us what you want 
to do.
2021: In the above example, the pension income is achieved through buying a 
guaranteed income for life (an annuity). Other options are available. Please see the 
Pension Benefit Statement Supporting Information, in Your Documents section in 
Manage Your Account, or provided with this statement. 
2021: provided a link to Pension Wise, a government service that would offer free 
impartial guidance
So I find that L&G provided Mr S with enough information about how his fund was invested, 
and reminded him to consider whether it remained suitable for him, and what he could do if 
not. L&G would not have been aware of how he intended to take his benefits as they were 
not his advisers and this was not their responsibility. So I cant see that L&G have done 
anything wrong in how they managed Mr Ss pension or in the information they provided. 
But Mr S believes that L&G should have told him on two separate occasions of events that 
meant that an annuity (and therefore potentially his investment strategy) might no longer be 
suitable for him. 
The first of these was the introduction of Pension Freedoms in 2015. But L&G did tell him. 
His 2015 statement said As a result of new pension freedoms, youll have more options 
about how you access your pension pot. However this means youll have more decisions to 
make too. The supporting information document tells you more about these options and 
sources of help and guidance available to you. This prompted him to review his pension in 
light of the new options. 
The second occasion was the economic upheaval of 2022. As the Bank of England raised 
interest rates, the value of gilts fell. But this fund was intended to target the level of annuity it 
could provide, not to protect the capital value. Changing interest rates are part of the normal 
function of markets, and Mr S had been prompted many times over the years to consider his 
investments and how he wanted to take benefits from his pension. 
As far as L&G knew he was still intending to take an annuity, so the fund remained 
appropriate as it would help protect the annuity he could buy. So unless he told them he no 
longer wanted an annuity, the approach remained appropriate. Furthermore, whether an annuity was suitable or not depends on many personal factors 
(such as his other income and assets, regular expenditure, appetite for risk and so on) that 
L&G simply wouldnt know about and had no responsibility for.
So overall I find that L&G managed Mr Ss pension in line with what they were supposed to 
do and kept him informed in a fair and reasonable way. Mr Ss pension may have been 
invested in a way that he now believes not to be suitable, but that is not L&Gs responsibility.
Therefore I am not able to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against Legal & General 
Investment Management Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman