DRN-3653601
The complaint
Mr W complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (Everyday) 
irresponsibly lent him money on a high cost loan that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Everyday provided a loan to Mr W, on 12 March 2018, for £1,750, repayable over 12 months 
at the rate of £250 a month. 
Mr W started to have problems paying the instalments in August 2018, and thereafter set up 
a repayment plan with Everyday. He eventually paid of the loan in April 2019. He complained 
to Everyday that the money had been irresponsibly lent to him at a time when he was 
struggling with other debts. He also said he had told Everyday he had a small gambling 
problem, and later told us that entries on his bank statements showed he had a drinking 
problem.
Everyday said it carried out eligibility checks including verifying his income, checking his 
credit record, and reviewing a bank statement. It assessed his living expenses using ONS 
(Office for National Statistics) data. It assessed the loan was affordable, also pointing out 
that his bank statements didnt show he had been gambling.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our adjudicator said that the results of Everydays 
checks showed Mr Ws total monthly credit repayments represented a significant proportion 
of his income. In those circumstances, there was a significant risk that Mr W wouldnt have 
been able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow again. She proposed 
that Everyday repay all the interest and charges added to the loan.
Everyday disagreed, in response it said:
There is no ruling on the maximum creditor repayments in relation to income.
Mr Ws total repayments were £479.29 on an income of £1,634.26 and he had a 
disposable income of £249.97.
His creditor repayments were solely made up of old historic defaults from 2013-2016. 
There was no evidence that he had taken any further credit after these defaults as there 
was nothing else on his credit file.
The bank account was well run with no evidence of financial stress.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr W would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ws ability to make the repayments under the agreement]. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr W undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr W. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Everyday has pointed out that there is no ruling on the maximum creditor repayments to 
income. As it should be aware, and as Ive set out above, there are a number of things the 
lender had to think about in assessing affordability and sustainability. But, as weve 
repeatedly said in previous decisions, where a consumers credit commitments as a 
proportion of their income are high, that is an indication of possible unaffordability. And we 
say that any figure over 25% does raise that issue. Here, using Everydays own figures, it 
was proposing to more than double Mr Ws credit commitments by providing this loan which 
wasnt sufficient to reduce any of his debts, as the repayments on the loan were much higher 
than he would have had to pay on each loan he was repaying. His income was around £1,635 a month and his credit commitments by Everydays calculations, about £230. By 
providing the loan, Mr Ws debt to income ratio was about 29-30%, and as I say a potential 
indicator of unaffordability.
Everyday calculated Mr W would have a disposable income of around £250 a month after 
taking into account the new loan repayments. But this figure was based on allowing 3% 
payments of the balances on all the defaulted loans, credit cards and a (historic) bank 
overdraft. We have said on a number of occasions that 5% is a more realistic figure if the 
debts are to be paid off within a reasonable time. If the figures are recalculated at 5%, his 
debt repayments would be round £375, plus the £250 figure on the new loan, amounting to 
about 38% of his income. This would also leave his disposable income at £104. I think thats 
too low and the loan was likely to be unaffordable.
Everyday has pointed out that Mr Ws only debts were historic defaults and he hadnt taken 
out any recent credit. Unfortunately Everyday hasnt provided us with the credit report from 
the time it assessed Mt Ws application, but as there dont appear to be any obvious loan or 
credit card payments on his bank statements, Ill assume its figures are correct. 
Nevertheless, this loan wasnt proposed to be paying off any of his debts, so his debt liability 
would have increased when this loan was approved and so that has to be taken into 
account.
As to Mr Ws gambling problem, there are no obvious entries relating to gambling on his 
bank statement. He asserts that he told the person in branch who sold him the loan, but I 
have no other evidence of this. With regard to a drinking problem, whilst there are some 
payments that could relate to this I cant see that they were excessive. Whilst his main bank 
account did run an overdraft I note that he had a savings account which would mostly have 
covered the overdraft. I dont think that Everyday could have been expected to be aware that 
Mr W had a gambling, or drinking problem. As hes paid off the loan, Everyday doesnt need 
now to take any specific action concerning this.
So I dont think that Everyday made a fair lending decision.
Putting things right
Mr W has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that he should repay 
this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Everyday should refund all interest and 
charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
Treat any payments made by Mr W as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Mr W has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr W
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans 
Every to provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman