DRN-3824088
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy as he feels Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him mobile phone insurance.
What happened
In 2015 Mr D upgraded his bank account to include Barclays Tech Pack. This provided him 
with extra benefits such as mobile phone insurance. He maintained this cover until April 
2020. He then upgraded his account again, to include this, in May 2022. 
He had made claims on his mobile phone insurance during the time he had cover and had 
repairs carried out. Recently he went to a high street retailer to have something repaired on 
his phone. At which point he discovered previous repairs carried out under his Barclays Tech 
Pack had been done with what he describes as fake parts.
Mr D complained to Barclays about this as he thought theyd mis-sold the policy. They 
advised he was out of time to make a complaint, so Mr D referred his concerns to this 
service. Barclays agreed for our service to look into the complaint and told us they didnt 
think the policy was mis-sold.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she was satisfied the policy is clear that 
unbranded parts may be used in repairs. So she wasnt persuaded the policy had been mis-
sold. As Mr D remained unhappy it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching this decision, Ive not reviewed any specific claims under the policy, only how the 
policy was sold as thats the complaint thats been brought to our service.
I understand Mr Ds strength of feeling in relation to this complaint. Whilst I have considered 
all the information provided by both parties, I havent commented on all of it. Ive only 
addressed the issues I consider to be the key points of the complaint. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy but reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Barclays have a responsibility to ensure they provide clear, fair and not misleading 
information. The terms and conditions set out the agreement between Barclays and Mr D 
and highlight how claims will be managed.
Having reviewed the terms and conditions provided to Mr D in 2015, I can see they said:
What you need to know about the claims process
Repairs may be made using readily available parts, or we may provide refurbished 
products which may contain parts, which are of similar or equivalent specification, and 
which may include unbranded parts.
From this I think its clear that unbranded parts may be used during a repair claim. I have 
also reviewed the 2022 terms and conditions and can see that they say:
Repair of Your Device
Repairs will be made in accordance with the following: (i) using readily available parts, 
(ii) with refurbished products which may contain parts which are of similar or equivalent 
specification, and which may include non-original, third party, or unbranded parts..
Im satisfied both policy documents were clear about the potential use of unbranded parts.
This term isnt unusual, branded parts arent always available and given the number of 
repairs that take place it isnt unreasonable for them to include this so they can process 
claims efficiently.
Barclays told us it was a non-advised sale and Mr D hasnt disputed this. It was therefore for 
Mr D to review what the policy was offering and decide if it was right for him. Barclays sent 
Mr D with a welcome pack, which included the terms and conditions, in 2015 and 2022. 
Having reviewed them I think the information was clear for him to make an informed choice.
I understand Mr D feels the policy compromises the product because he had purchased a 
specific branded phone for its quality and user experience. However, the information was 
there for Mr D to consider this. And if he decided it didnt meet his needs, he had a 14 day 
cooling off period to cancel it.
Overall, Im satisfied the terms and conditions provided were clear about the potential use of 
unbranded parts and Mr D had this information to make an informed decision about whether 
the policy was suitable for his needs. As such, Im not persuaded the policy was mis-sold to 
him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman