DRN-4386756
The complaint
Mr O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund him the money he lost after he fell victim 
to an authorised push payment (APP) scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary, I understand it to be as follows.
In or around March 2023, Mr O was contacted out of the blue, through a well-known instant 
messaging service, about a home-based job opportunity. The job involved completing online 
tasks for companies, to boost products on sale. Mr O was told he could earn c. £450 per 
week through commission and it would need him to spare 1-2 hours of his time every day.
Mr O has said he was sent a link to create an account, with what appears to be a software 
solutions company. Hes said he looked at the website and it seemed well done and he 
could see the company, who he had created the account with, was registered with 
Companies House. Mr O added that the company also had a customer service team, which 
made him think this was legitimate. Mr O started to do some of the work and as he 
completed tasks, hes said he could see he was getting bonus points on the account he had 
set up.
Mr O has said he started to come across more expensive products that needed tasks 
completing, he was told he would get paid a higher commission for completing these, but 
that he would need to pay a fee to be able to work these tasks. Believing everything to be 
genuine Mr O went ahead and made payments to the account details he was provided, 
which was for a digital wallet. But unknown to Mr O at the time, this was a scam and he was 
sending money to an account that was controlled by fraudsters.
Between 23 March 2023 and 25 March 2023, Mr O made 5 payments totalling £3,458 from 
his Lloyds account. Mr O realised hed been scammed when the amount of money he was 
being asked to pay was increasing and he was told if he didnt pay he would lose all of his 
money.
Mr O has explained that he wasnt concerned about things such as the scammer contacting 
him out of the blue with a job opportunity, or not receiving any paperwork such as a contract 
of employment, because of the things that convinced him above. He said where he saw the 
deposits he was making appear on the account hed set up, it made him think this was 
correct.
Mr O raised the matter with Lloyds. Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Lloyds issued its final response to Mr O in May 2023, not upholding his 
complaint. In summary, it didnt consider Mr O had a reasonable basis to believe this was 
genuine. It added that it didnt consider the payments Mr O had made were unusual and so it 
didnt consider there was any reason for it to intervene. Lloyds did contact the beneficiary 
bank (the bank to which the payments were made) to try and recover the money Mr O had 
sent, but unfortunately no funds remained.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr O referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things, but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it was our 
Investigators view that there was enough going on that Mr O should have had some 
concerns about the transactions he was about to make. She also didnt think it would have 
been apparent to Lloyds that there was a scam risk, so she didnt think it needed to warn or 
contact Mr O ahead of him making the payments.
Mr O didnt agree with our Investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been  
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on  
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt  
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Im aware in his submissions Mr O has referred to another complaint he had against a 
different payment service provider, who hed also made payments to as part of this scam. 
But I would point out that, while on the surface things may seem quite similar, each 
complaint is determined by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive 
looked at the individual circumstances of Mr Os complaint against Lloyds.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to  
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the  
time.
To begin with, Lloyds has a primary obligation to carry out the payment instructions its  
customers give it. As a starting point, a customer will therefore be assumed to be liable for 
payments they have instructed to be made. There is no dispute that Mr O authorised these 
payments, albeit having been deceived into believing he was sending them for the purpose 
of a job opportunity. On the face of it, he is therefore liable for the resultant losses.
However, of particular relevance here, the CRM Code says that the victim of an APP scam 
such as this should be reimbursed unless the bank is able to establish that one (or more) of 
the limited exceptions to reimbursement can be applied.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*:
- The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning.
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
I think Lloyds has been able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse Mr O under the 
terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement under  
the provisions of the CRM Code applies.
Did Mr O have a reasonable basis of belief?
Ive thought about what Mr O has told us happened, and the reasons Lloyds say Mr O didnt  
have a reasonable basis for belief for proceeding with the payments or that the person 
(employer) he was dealing with was legitimate.
Based on everything Ive seen and been told; Im not satisfied Mr O did have a reasonable 
basis for belief. I think there are several concerning factors here that ought to have made   
Mr O cautious and led him to complete more extensive research before making the 
payments he did. Ill explain why;
- The scammer contacted Mr O out of the blue. This is an unusual way of securing a 
legitimate employment opportunity, and I have to question why Mr O wasnt 
concerned about how the scammer had obtained his contact details from a database, 
that he doesnt recall entering his details onto.
- Mr O wasnt provided with, nor from what Ive seen did he ask for, any documentation 
and didnt receive an employment contract to show what was agreed between the 
parties. I appreciate Mr O has said not all jobs have contracts, but in the 
circumstances where Mr O is being asked to make payments to secure work, I think 
it would have been prudent to have something more formalised to give him comfort 
that he would be receiving his money back/commission as promised.
- Mr O has said that he was told he could earn c £450 per week, or between $10,000 - 
$20,000 and would only need to surrender a small number of hours of his time per 
day. I think that Mr O ought reasonably to have had concerns about the strong 
additional income he was being offered to complete basic tasks. I think this level of 
income, seems improbable to the point of being too good to be true.
- Im also mindful of the fact that Mr O made the payment to an account that was not in 
the name of the company he believed he was working with.
- While I appreciate Mr O has said the website of the company he was working with 
appeared genuine. Ive not seen anything on this website to suggest the company is 
involved in the type of work that Mr O was engaging with, which I think reasonably 
ought to have led Mr O to question whether things were all as they seemed.
- I havent been given a reasonable explanation for the need to pay money over in 
order to earn money. Albeit the initial payments started lower, I think Mr O ought to 
have had concerns ahead of making any of the payments he did. I dont think a 
legitimate company would require somebody to make any upfront payments, but     
Mr O has proceeded to pay money over anyway without completing sufficient 
independent checks, and I dont think that was reasonable.Im mindful that any of these individual factors in isolation may not have been enough to 
have prevented Mr O from proceeding. But considering the specific circumstances of this  
case and the factors in the round, on balance, I think that there was enough going on and  
sufficient red flags that Mr O ought reasonably to have taken further steps to protect himself.
Ive gone on to think about whether Lloyds did enough to protect Mr O from financial harm. 
As mentioned, the CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks, they should 
provide effective warnings to their customers.
I am also mindful that, when Mr O made these payments, Lloyds should fairly and 
reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). But in the 
circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded the payments Mr O made to the fraudsters 
were such that Lloyds ought to have been on notice that he might have been at risk of 
financial harm from fraud. So, Im satisfied Lloyds neednt have identified a scam risk and in 
turn did not need to provide an effective warning or question the payments before 
processing them.
Finally, Ive considered whether Lloyds did all it could to try and recover the money Mr O 
lost, once he had reported the scam to it. From the evidence Ive seen, Lloyds did contact 
the receiving bank when the matter was raised, but unfortunately the receiving bank reported 
that no funds remained, indicating the funds had been moved on straight away. So, I think 
Lloyds has done what could reasonably have been expected to and I dont think it has 
missed an opportunity to recover the money Mr O has sadly lost.
All things considered, I dont find that Lloyds is liable to refund Mr O under the terms of the 
CRM Code. In saying this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about what happened 
to Mr O and I am sorry he has lost out here. He was the victim of a cruel scam designed to 
defraud him of his money. I appreciate that hes lost a significant amount because of what 
happened.
But I can only look at what Lloyds was and is required to do and Im not persuaded that 
Lloyds is required to refund him under the CRM Code, nor that the bank was at fault in 
making the payments Mr O had instructed it to make or for any other reason.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman