DRN-4440355
The complaint
Miss P complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund the money she 
lost to an investment scam. 
What happened
Miss P found a company Ill call M through her former FCA regulated broker (ML). ML 
advised Miss P that hed conducted due diligence on Ms mini bond offering and felt it was a 
good opportunity for her. She invested £200,000 over eight payments between 10 April 2017 
to 11 May 2017.
When M failed to deliver their bond in line with their marketing material, Ms P threatened to 
report them. She was able to recover £174,000 of her investment from them. 
Miss P contacted Halifax in 2020 to inform it she was deceived into paying M but Halifax 
advised her it couldnt assist. 
Miss P contacted Halifax again in February 2023 as she felt it could have done more to 
protect her from financial harm. Halifax issued its final response on 3 March 2023. It declined 
to refund Miss P on the basis that the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code didnt 
apply. Halifax didnt find that it could have prevented Miss Ps loss. 
Unhappy with its response, Miss P referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into things and didnt think Halifax acted unreasonably. She 
didnt think that Halifax could have prevented Miss Ps loss. 
Miss P didnt agree. She said in summary:
Our investigators findings contradict another complaint that our service looked into 
relating to her father investing in M.
She was not a customer of the beneficiary of the funds as the funds were intended 
for M as confirmed by the liquidator.
Funds she paid to another party prior to the scam was the return of a loan and not an 
investment, which she informed Halifax of.
Payments she made to another bank were payments to her own stocks and shares 
trading account, which she informed Halifax of. 
Had Halifax intervened, it wouldve likely warned her about potential scams and the 
very high risks associated with unregulated investments, shed have looked into 
things further and wouldnt have proceeded with her payments. 
Halifax simply sent a text checking whether Miss P authorised the transaction and did 
no further checks.
The liquidators findings indicated that M acted dishonestly and were deceptive, 
amongst other things. 
Had Halifax intervened, it would have realised that Miss P had never invested in 
unregulated investments and shed have looked into this further. Prior to this, she 
only ever transferred money to trusted individuals known to her and her own external 
bank accounts.
The reason she sought advice in the first place was to ensure she had capital 
protection due to her inexperience. The recipient of the funds was a regulated 
company but were only a 3rd party that handled payments for M. 
Her history with ML would have made no difference to her making the investment if 
Halifax had intervened. ML had only provided her with advice on a handful of 
occasions, under his principal firm (TJM) for approximately nine months before he 
recommended the M bond. During that time, ML only provided advice on regulated 
products and she didnt understand the difference. 
Had Halifax intervened, it could have spotted the nuances in the situation she found 
herself in.
The ICO agreed that TJM were in breach of their conduct and if Halifax had probed 
her further about ML not using a TJM email and phone line, this could have revealed 
his misrepresentation which was a breach of his FCA license. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Before I go onto explain why, I acknowledge Miss P is unhappy that this service reached a 
different outcome in relation to her fathers complaint which were very similar circumstances. 
It may help if I explain that we consider complaints on their individual merits and we also 
offer a two-stage process - should either party disagree - where an Ombudsman can make a 
final decision. In the complaint referenced by Miss P, I dont see that it went through our two-
stage process, nor did we make a final decision on it, it was resolved informally. 
Although Ive considered all of the evidence raised by both parties, I may not comment on all 
the points raised as Ill focus on what I think the key points are. But I assure both parties that 
I have considered all the submissions made very carefully. 
Not every complaint referred to us as an investment scam is in fact a scam. Some cases 
simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in very disappointing returns or losses. 
Some investment companies may have promoted products like mini-bonds (which is the 
subject of this dispute)which were not regulated by the FCAusing sales methods that 
were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains 
or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
constitute unauthorised investment advice.So, the first question to resolve is whether M was actually a scam.
Was M operating a scam?
When considering this for Miss Ps case, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive 
searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators. And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, which is in place 
to share alerts and insight about companies that have been identified as potentially being 
fraudulent.   
Upon checking both of these, its my understanding that M has no adverse information 
reported about them. Indeed, my own research hasnt resulted in any compelling information 
to show it was fraudulent. 
Ive also noted that Miss P received credits from the investment (almost on a monthly basis) 
between April 2017 to November 2017 totalling £49,000. Miss P then received another 
£125,000 over a year after her final payment to M. In common circumstances of investment 
fraud, the beneficiary disappears with most of the money as quickly as possible. So, its 
highly unusual that Miss P received returns from an alleged fraudster so long after her initial 
investment. 
Miss P suggests M was a Ponzi scheme but I have no credible evidence that this was the 
case at the time of Miss Ps payments, or at the time of writing this decision. 
Ive seen some adverse customer reviews about M and Miss P has highlighted some 
findings of the liquidator and I cannot ignore that, while this could be seen as circumstantial 
evidence that helps build an overall picture of M  this is not in itself sufficient evidence of 
fraud. 
I must therefore take into account that theres strong evidence here  particularly because 
there is no credible adverse evidence that was published at the material time  that M hadnt 
been identified as a fraudulent company when these payments were made. 
Im not persuaded with any degree of certainty that M was operating a scam. So, taking 
everything into consideration, Im not persuaded that M was in fact a fraudulent company. 
But even if Im wrong and M are proven to be fraudulent, Ill consider in any event whether I 
think Halifax could have prevented Miss P from sending her payments. To do this, I must 
consider whether:
1. Any of Miss Ps payments ought to have reasonably appeared unusual or 
uncharacteristic to Halifax?
2. Is so, would Halifaxs intervention have made a difference or prevented or reduced 
the loss?
3. And if so, should Miss P bear some responsibility for the loss such that it would be 
fair and reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately. 
Were any of Miss Ps payments unusual?
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mis P for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Miss P using the legitimate security credentials provided to her by Halifax. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Miss P says she 
was the victim of a scam. So, although from her perspective, she did not intend the money to 
go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of her account, 
Miss P is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Like our investigator, I dont find Miss Ps first two payments (£25,000 on 10 April 2017 and 
£25,000 on 11 April 2017) were all that unusual when considering her previous account 
activity. For example, on 18 April 2016 Miss P made a transfer payment of £25,000, on 14 
July 2016, she made a transfer payment of £25,000 to a company (S) and on 15 July 2016 
she made a transfer payment of £25,000 to S. I appreciate Miss P has provided some 
context as to the purpose of the payments but I dont think Halifax would have reasonably 
known the exact purpose of any of her payments and I dont think it could have reasonably 
suspected unusual activity when Miss P sent her two payments towards the M investment. 
I do however think Halifax should have reasonably intervened when Miss P made her third 
payment of £25,000 towards her M investment on 11 April 2017. This was the third 
consecutive payment totalling £75,000 in a very short space of time and very unusual for 
Miss P when considering her normal account activity. Miss P advised Halifax did no more 
than send her a text message authorising her payments and I accept her version of events 
as Halifax hasnt provided anything to the contrary. 
In my judgement, Halifax missed an opportunity to intervene. 
Would an intervention have made a difference?
If Halifax had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that Miss P would have explained what she was doing and that the purpose of the 
payment was to invest. 
In such circumstances, whilst Halifax had no duty to protect her from a bad bargain or give 
investment advice, it could have reasonably asked Miss P some further questions to 
ascertain whether she was likely to be at risk of financial harm from fraud. Ive thought 
carefully about the sorts of questions Halifax shouldve asked, bearing in mind the features 
of investment scams at that time. 
At the time Miss P fell victim to the scam, investment scams carried some common features. 
For example, these included rates of return which were too good to be true, receiving the 
opportunity to invest via an unsolicited cold call, with fraudsters often applying pressure to 
their victims to invest quickly.Against this backdrop Id have expected Halifax to ask Miss P some questions to see if there 
were any signs that this was an investment scam (as described above). I think Halifax would 
have reasonably asked what it was Miss P was investing in and I think shed have explained 
she was investing in bonds. I think Halifax would have reasonably been aware that mini-
bond providers werent required to be regulated by the FCA. But I think it would have also 
acknowledged these investments could be high risk, so I think Halifax could have asked how 
Miss P had come across the investment. I think Miss P would have likely explained that the 
investment was recommended by her financial adviser who shed been dealing with for 
some time and believed to be FCA regulated. I dont think Halifax would have reasonably 
been expected to probe the legitimacy of ML based on Miss Ps previous dealings with him. 
I would have reasonably expected Halifax to query whether Miss P knew where the funds 
were going. At which point, I think shed have likely explained that the funds were being 
made to an FCA regulated payment service provider  something that was explained on Ms 
paperwork. Miss P may have also disclosed the indicated rate of return.
Upon receiving this information from Miss P, Im not persuaded Halifax wouldve been 
concerned that Miss P was about to fall victim to an investment scam as there were no 
obvious indicators of what I consider to be well published investment scam typologies at the 
time. I accept the rate of return was higher than what a high street bank wouldve offered, 
but mini-bonds do often have higher rates of return and I dont think it was too good to be 
true. I accept the rate of return potentially indicated a high-risk investment, which might not 
have been suitable for Miss P, but as Ive explained, it would not have been Halifaxs role to 
provide her with financial advice.
From her understanding, her capital was secure and shed already queried the promised rate 
of return with ML. 
Nevertheless, I think Halifax shouldve gone on to ask Miss P what checks shed done to 
establish the legitimacy of the investment. 
Ive seen that Miss P had conversations with ML about the investment prior to investing, so I 
think shed have explained she discussed the investment with her financial adviser. Miss P 
was provided with detailed booklets about the investment which included a booklet about the 
bond as well as an insurance summary. Looking at the booklet provided to Miss P, it 
confirmed the investment was made through an FCA regulated payment service provider 
and according to the FCAs website, this payment service provider was authorised to provide 
the relevant services at the time Miss P made her payments. I think Miss P would likely have 
explained this to Halifax. I dont think Miss P wouldve got into the detail of what these 
documents said, and I dont think Halifax shouldve asked to see them in the circumstances 
of this case given there were no other indications of fraud. But even if it had, I dont think it 
would have had any reasonable concerns. I think as a result its more likely than not Halifax 
wouldve been satisfied Miss P wasnt at risk of falling victim to an investment scam, Miss P 
wouldve felt comfortable continuing with the payment, and it wouldve been processed. This 
wouldve been a reasonable step for Halifax to take in the circumstances.
Even if Miss P did have concerns about investment scams following a conversation with 
Halifax, which for the avoidance of doubt I dont think she would have, I think its more likely 
than not she would have directed them to ML rather than an independent third party and 
thats because she trusted him. Its also relevant that had Miss P attempted to verify the 
payment service provider was regulated by the FCA, she wouldve discovered they were 
who shed been told they were. Its also notable there were no warnings at that time about M or mini-bonds as a product. Ive 
noted that the FCA published more information about mini-bonds in May 2019 and 
highlighted some risks involved with investing in such instruments. But this information was 
published almost two years after Miss P made her payments. 
The FCA temporarily banned the mass marketing of speculative mini-bonds to UK retail 
consumers from January 2020, whilst it consulted on permanent rules. It made the 
temporary ban permanent the following year. I dont think Halifax could have been 
reasonably aware of this given that this information was published almost two years after 
Miss P made her payments. 
Given Ive found that its more likely than not an intervention from Halifax wouldnt have 
made a difference and exposed the alleged scam, it is unnecessary for me to go on to 
consider whether Miss P should share any responsibility for the loss she incurred. 
Recovery
Halifax needed to be satisfied that Miss P was the victim of an authorised push payment 
fraud in order to take steps to recover her authorised payments from the beneficiaries. Ive 
seen that Halifax were not satisfied that Miss P was the victim of an authorised push 
payment scam as it considered she paid a legitimate company who had gone into 
liquidation. So it didnt contact the beneficiaries. I dont find this to be unreasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Halifax explained to Miss P that she should continue to liaise with the liquidators of the 
companies that she paid. Ive noted the liquidators confirmed to Miss P that there was little 
chance of her recovering her funds and so I dont think its likely that Halifax could have 
recovered any of her funds even if it had tried given the liquidators involvement. 
Overall, whilst I agree that Halifax didnt do what it ought to have done by intervening in Miss 
Ps payment towards her investment with M, I dont find that it was the primary cause of Miss 
Ps loss. In other words, I dont think Halifax could have prevented Miss P from making the 
payments towards her M investment, nor do I think there was any indication that Miss P had 
fallen victim to a fraud or scam at the material time, such that I would make an award against 
Halifax. I know this will be an extremely difficult decision for Miss P to receive.
My final decision
My final decision is that, despite my natural sympathies for Miss Ps loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman