DRN-3290564
The complaint
Mr S complains that Vitality Health Limited unfairly declined a claim he made on his private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S has a chest deformity called pectus excavatum. In 2019 he began to experience a 
shortness of breath when exercising. So, he saw a consultant who in turn offered surgery to 
correct the deformity via the Ravitch procedure. 
Mr S made a claim for this procedure on his private medical insurance and at first Vitality 
accepted it. But when Mr S told Vitality that his surgery had been cancelled and would need 
to be rescheduled because of staff shortages, Vitality said it was declining his claim. 
Vitality explained that it had reconsidered matters and did not think Mr S was suffering from 
an acute flare-up of his condition. It said it had made a mistake by initially authorising his 
claim for the surgery. But it acknowledged its mistake would have had an impact on Mr S, 
and it offered him £1,000 in compensation to reflect that. 
Unhappy with Vitalitys position Mr S complained. He also referred that complaint to this 
service where it was decided by a fellow ombudsman.
That ombudsman said Vitality should seek further information and clarification before 
reassessing Mr Ss claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of his policy. They 
said Vitality should increase its offer of compensation by another £150 too, to reflect the way 
it had handled the initial reassessment of the claim.
Vitality sought additional information but maintained its decline. It said that although it had 
been unable to confirm that Mr S was suffering from an acute flare-up, the policy didnt cover 
treatment that wasnt established medical practice in the UK, and NHS England had 
concluded there wasnt sufficient evidence to support the routine commissioning of surgery 
for pectus excavatum. 
Unhappy with Vitalitys position, Mr S complained once again and referred the matter back to 
this service. 
Our investigator said the additional information Vitality sought did not evidence that Mr S 
hadnt suffered an acute flare-up. They acknowledged the policy did not cover treatment that 
wasnt established medical practice in the UK, but said Mr Ss consultant had advised non-
surgical options were unsuitable and had provided details of a case study to support the 
efficacy of surgery being proposed.
Our investigator also said the available evidence did not suggest that Mr Ss surgery was 
being performed for primarily cosmetic reasons, and Vitalitys second decline of the claim 
had further impacted Mr S. So, they recommended Vitality accept the claim and pay Mr S 
£150 in compensation. 
Vitality disagreed. It reiterated its position and explained that the fundamental reason for its 
second decline was because NHS England concluded there was insufficient evidence to 
support the routine commissioning of surgery for pectus excavatum. Vitality also provided 
this service with an independent peer review which it said further supported its position. But 
as the review was considered legally privileged, it was not shared with Mr S. 
Mr S said Vitality hadnt managed matters from the outset and didnt hold any substantial 
new evidence to suggest he was not suffering from an acute flare-up. He said the surgery 
was in line with NICE guidelines (The National Institute for Health Care Excellence) and it 
was proven to be effective so it shouldnt have been considered experimental. Mr S also said 
that it was unfair of Vitality to rely on the peer review which it was not prepared to share. 
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be 
upheld. That decision, which now forms part of this final decision, said:
As an insurer Vitality has a number of responsibilities that it should adhere to. This includes 
but is not limited to handling claims both promptly and fairly, and not rejecting them 
unreasonably. 
Mr S has maintained that despite Vitality seeking further information there still remains a lack 
of evidence to support him not suffering an acute flare-up. He says his claim should be 
honoured because of this, and he has set out his frustrations about Vitality relying on a peer 
review that its not prepared to share. 
Vitality took the action it had been directed to take. That was, to seek further information and 
clarification before reassessing Mr Ss claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of his policy. I do appreciate it would have been frustrating for Mr S to wait whilst this was 
happening though, and I genuinely empathise with his position regarding the independent 
peer review. I hope Mr S understands why this service is not permitted to share the review 
with him either. 
Im satisfied that the independent peer review supports Vitalitys position in part. But 
irrespective of this, Vitality has said the fundamental reason for declining Mr Ss claim is 
because theres insufficient evidence of the effectiveness of the surgery and it hasnt been 
approved for general use in the NHS. So I need to decide if Vitality has acted reasonably in 
declining the claim on this basis.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy explain:
1.11 EXPERIMENTAL TREATMENT
Our plan does not cover drugs and treatment that are not considered to be 
established medical practice in the UK or for which there is insufficient evidence of 
safety or effectiveness. This includes drugs that are used outside the terms of their 
licence or treatment that has not been reviewed and approved for general use in the 
NHS. However, we may consider covering experimental treatment where this is part 
of a properly controlled clinical trial or where we believe there is adequate evidence 
that the treatment is effective. You should contact us before undergoing treatment to 
check what we will cover.
They also list the following as a specific exclusion: 
TREATMENTS AND TESTS
treatment or drug therapy which, based on established medical practice in the UK, is considered to be experimental or unproven, or for which there is 
insufficient evidence of safety or effectiveness
On 22 February 2019 NHS England published a Clinical Commissioning Policy: Surgery for 
pectus deformity (all ages) which explained:
 NHS England has reviewed this clinical condition and the options for its 
treatment. It has considered the place of this treatment in current clinical practice, 
whether scientific research has shown the treatment to be of benefit to patients, 
(including how any benefit is balanced against possible risks) and whether its use 
represents the best use of NHS resources.
The clinical commissioning policy concluded there wasnt enough evidence to support the 
routine commissioning of surgical correction for pectus deformity. Because of this, I dont 
think it was unreasonable of Vitality to find the surgery Mr S had claimed for wasnt approved 
for general use in the NHS. And, as both sides are already aware, this isnt something that 
Mr Ss policy is designed to cover.
It is clear that Mr S strongly disputes Vitalitys position on his claim. He says the surgery is 
both safe and effective. His consultant has echoed this stance too and has also referred to a 
case study (Kelly et al 2013) to support this.
Our investigator felt that more weight should be placed on the evidence provided by Mr Ss 
consultant because it was they who were the treating specialist. But I dont think I can fairly 
decide this complaint on this basis alone. I must take account of the evidence both sides 
have relied on. 
Having done so, I can see that the 2019 clinical commissioning policy confirmed that a 
variety of case studies were considered by NHS England as part of its review into surgery for 
pectus deformity. That consideration included the specific case study that Mr Ss consultant 
referred to  Kelly et al 2013. 
Whilst the arguments put forward both for and by Mr S say the 2013 study supported the 
effectiveness of the surgery being proposed, NHS England found there to be limitations in 
the designs of the available case studies and advised they needed to be viewed with 
caution. NHS England also concluded:
The evidence that was found is not sufficient to conclude that the physical psychological, 
social and behavioural benefits of surgical treatment of pectus deformities are sufficient to 
justify its use.  
My role within this complaint is not to determine whether the surgery being proposed for 
Mr S is effective or not. It is to determine whether it was reasonable of Vitality to decline 
Mr Ss claim for the reasons it did. I accept that the recommendation to perform the surgery 
wasnt primarily for cosmetics reasons, but given the findings of NHS England Im not 
persuaded I can fairly conclude that Vitality unreasonably determined there to be insufficient 
or inadequate evidence of efficacy either.
In all the circumstances I find Vitalitys decision to decline the claim was reasonable. This 
being so I dont propose to award compensation to Mr S or direct Vitality to accept his claim.
Responses to the provisional decision
Both parties were given an opportunity to respond to the provisional decision. Vitality responded and said that it did not have anything further to add. 
Mr S responded at length and in summary said:
The decision was a complete U-turn which undermined previous decisions. It was 
unbalanced and although his evidence was overwhelmingly in support of the surgery, 
it had been disregarded. The decision was weighted heavily on a peer review that 
Vitality had used as an unfair tactic. 
NHS Englands position was floored, and it only applied to England. NICE guidelines 
confirmed the surgery was effective and established and Vitality had disregarded 
that. NHS England was also re-evaluating the commissioning of surgery for pectus 
excavatum, funding for it would be restored in 2022, and his NHS specialist had 
spoken about this too. 
The claim had always been about his health and nothing more. It should have been 
honored years ago. He was exhausted and had been caused a significant amount of 
distress, frustration and upset.  
He would be approaching Vitality for another test and would now prefer the NUSS 
procedure. His NHS specialist would be keeping him up to date with regard to the 
availability of surgery on the NHS. 
So, I now need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I sent my provisional decision I noted that Id summarised events in less detail than 
they had been presented. Ill echo that again here and I would like to reassure both parties 
that if Ive not mentioned or do not mention something its not because I have ignored it, it is 
because I do not consider it central to the outcome of this complaint.
My provisional findings were a change in direction. That change was the reason for me 
providing the opportunity for both parties to provide further comment, and as they have now 
done that it is time for me to decide matters.
Vitalitys peer review evidently remains the cause of much frustration for Mr S. Although I am 
still of the opinion that it supports Vitalitys position in part, my provisional findings were not 
solely based on it and I still appreciate that, to date, Mr S has remained unable to see and 
therefore fully comment on the review. 
I thank Mr S for taking the time to set out his concerns about the way NHS England 
approached its clinical commissioning policy, and for pointing to other decisions and case 
law too.
Complaints are assessed on their own individual merit and in reaching this decision Ive 
considered the specific circumstances of Mr Ss complaint. 
While I have considered the arguments Mr S has presented in order to dispute the findings 
of NHS England, my role is not to review the approach NHS England took with regard to its 
commissioning policy. It is to decide whether Vitality acted reasonably in declining Mr Ss 
claim.
Vitality relied on the views of NHS England, a non-departmental public body. I wont repeat any extracts from the commissioning policy here as they are contained within my provisional 
decision, but NHS England concluded there was not enough evidence to support the routine 
commissioning of surgical correction for pectus deformity. I know that Mr S disagrees with 
that, but I dont think it was unreasonable of Vitality to rely on NHS Englands findings. 
Mr S has set out that funding for surgery will resume in 2022 and Im aware that NHS 
funding for treatment of pectus deformity has been debated in Parliament. However, the 
surgery Mr S claimed for is not currently approved for routine commissioning by 
NHS England and I dont think it would be fair of me to solely base my findings on a change 
that might go on to be made. 
Ive not been provided with any evidence to corroborate Mr Ss testimony: that he would 
have been treated differently by Vitality had he not lived in England. I do appreciate Mr Ss 
concerns about this though and I accept that different NHS bodies have taken different 
approaches to the surgery hes claimed for. But given that variation of approach and the 
actual findings of NHS England, again I dont think it was unreasonable of Vitality reach the 
findings that it did. 
The NICE guidelines Mr S has referred to largely centre on the NUSS or MIRPE procedure. 
They do note that surgery can include the use of the Ravitch procedure however, which is 
what Mr S claimed for, and they explain that surgery may be caried out in mid-to-late 
childhood. 
With regards to efficacy, the guidelines set out a variety of outcomes but dont specifically 
comment on lung or respiratory related improvement which was the basis of Mr Ss claim.
Looking at the efficacy outcomes they refer to pre-operative versus post-operative cosmetic 
appearance and self-esteem scores, what people said when theyd been asked if theyd 
have the procedure again, and there being no reported differences in health-related quality 
of life or physical and psychosocial quality of life scores. The guidelines also set out that 
specialist advisors had listed the key efficacy outcomes of surgery for pectus excavatum as 
cosmetic appearance and patient satisfaction.
It is clear from reviewing all of the available evidence and arguments in this complaint that 
Mr Ss claim has been ongoing for some time. He has clearly made much effort throughout it 
to support his position and I do understand why he is now exhausted with matters. It is, after 
all, a number of years since his claim was first made. 
That being said, for the reasons given above and within my provisional decision I dont think 
it was unreasonable of Vitality to find that the surgery Mr S had claimed for wasnt approved 
for general use in the NHS. And Im not persuaded that I can fairly conclude that it 
unreasonably determined there to be insufficient or inadequate evidence of efficacy either.
I understand that Mr S may now be seeking a different surgical procedure  NUSS rather 
than Ravitch  and although this latest position isnt a matter for me to comment on I do wish 
Mr S well in relation to any surgery he may go on to have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 Jade Alexander
Ombudsman