DRN-4273539
The complaint
Mr M complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly recorded a debt 
on his credit file after it cancelled his motor insurance policy. And after he settled the balance 
it failed to update his credit file with this information.
What happened
Mr M made a claim on his motor insurance policy after his car was stolen. The car was not 
recovered, and LV made a settlement payment.
After the settlement was paid to Mr M, LV informed him he could transfer his policy to 
another vehicle within 60 days. It said if no contact was made it would cancel the policy and 
there would be no refund due, and any outstanding premium would need to be paid in full.
As Mr M made no contact with LV the policy was cancelled. And as he did not pay the 
outstanding premium within the time given it transferred the outstanding amount to a debt 
collection agency.
Mr M said he would have paid the outstanding amount, but he was not aware there was an 
amount to be paid until the day before LV transferred the outstanding balance to the debt 
collection agency.
LV did not agree it failed to inform him of the outstanding premium that needed to be paid. It 
said it gave him the required notice before passing the balance on to a debt collection 
agency. It accepted it had failed to progress the cancellation of his policy between
January 2022 and March 2022 but said this did not have any impact on the amount he owed. 
After Mr M made his complaint he found that there was an outstanding balance on his credit 
rating. The payment he had made to clear the outstanding amount had not been updated on 
his credit record. LV agreed this issue could form part of his complaint.
LV sent £50 as a gesture of goodwill for the poor service received from one of its staff 
members when Mr M called to query the outstanding balance.
As Mr M was not happy with LV, he brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said LV should 
increase its offer of compensation to £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused 
by not removing the credit record once the payment had been cleared.
As Mr M is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the correspondence sent by LV to Mr M after his claim had been settled. I saw 
evidence of the following 
November 2021 - notification  of his option to change the policy onto another vehicle 
within 60 days.
January 2022 - reminder regarding his option to change the vehicle on his policy or 14 
days notice of cancellation. 
March 2022 - a reminder giving a further seven days notice of cancellation. 
Policy cancellation letter sent on 9 April 2022 which included a seven-day notice to pay 
the outstanding premium balance and details of the amount due to be paid.
Mr M didnt receive the seven-day notice letter until the seventh day; however I cannot hold 
LV responsible for the time it took for him to receive this letter, as this is out of its control.  
I saw Mr M contacted LV by phone when he received the letter on 16 April 2022. As he didnt 
think the LV agent was clear in their explanation of the cancellation he asked for this to be 
put in writing so he could consider the matter further. This was sent on 17 April 2022. 
I saw on 19 April 2022 Mr M received notification from the debt collection company 
confirming his account was with them. Although I accept the outstanding amount was 
passed on to the debt collection agency straight after the deadline for payment date, LV had 
given Mr M the required notice that this would happen, so I cannot say that this was unfair, 
as he was late with his payment. 
I understand Mr M said it was never his intention not to pay any outstanding amount. He said 
as LV did not explicitly tell him to call them to settle the outstanding amount in its letters sent 
in January 2022 and March 2022 it was not fair and clear. However although LV did not 
notify him of the actual outstanding amount before the seven-day cancellation letter was 
issued, he had been made aware settlement of the full policy premium was due in its letter in 
November 2011. And he did not pay after receiving the seven-day notice letter which did 
inform him of the exact amount due.
Mr M acknowledges no agreement was made during the call on 16 April 2022. He said as 
the LV advisor did not say that the debt would be passed on he made an assumption that 
there would be a hold on his account. But the letter that he received that instigated his call to 
LV on this date did explicitly say it would pass his details onto a debt collection agency if 
payment wasnt received within seven days of 9 April 2022. 
Mr M paid the outstanding amount in May 2022 and I saw the debt collection agency 
emailed him and confirmed his balance was £0.00. 
LV said it can take up to 45 days or sometimes longer depending on the date of the month it 
transfers data across for records to be updated. It is reasonable to think it should have 
updated by the end of July 2022, but I saw Mr M found the outstanding amount was still 
recorded in February 2023.
LV said it could not see any reason it had not updated, it said this could be an error made by 
either itself or the debt collection agency. I saw LV said he should raise a dispute with the 
debt collection agency.
Although I accept LV said the reason it had asked Mr M to contact the debt collection agency 
himself to sort out why it had not updated its records, LV is still responsible for everything relating to the debt and Mr Ms customer journey. Therefore I hold LV responsible overall for 
the delay in the debt being removed from Mr Ms credit record.
I have not seen any evidence that Mr M has been impacted negatively by the debt being 
recorded for longer than it should have been, however if he has evidence of any negative 
impact caused LV should consider suitable redress. 
Therefore, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and in addition to the £50 LV has paid for the poor 
service received from one of its staff members, I require it to pay him a further £200 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by his credit record not being 
updated in a reasonable timescale once payment was cleared.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr M a further £200 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused because his credit record was not 
updated in a reasonable timescale once payment was cleared.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman