DRN-3094125
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the service received from Santander UK Plc when he made a branch 
visit.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr T and Santander. I wont repeat 
what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons 
for my outcome. 
Mr T entered a Santander branch on 22 October 2020 to carry out a transaction. He says the 
Santander adviser (whom Ill call S1) serving him asked him to adjust his face mask as it 
wasnt covering his nose - and he did so. He says whilst at the counter he pulled his face 
mask down to speak clearly as his voice was muffled and S1 shouted to him to put his mask 
back on. He asked S1 why she wasnt wearing a face mask and she then refused to serve 
him. 
Mr T says shortly afterwards he was shouted at to leave the branch by another Santander 
employee (whom Ill call S2) who ran towards him waving his arms and encroaching on the 
two-metre social distancing rule at that time.  
Mr T complained to Santander and in their final response letter Santander said that 
customers were being asked to wear masks in branch at all times because of the COVID-19 
pandemic. They also said S1 wasnt wearing a mask as she was behind a screen and is 
exempt. Santander said S1 was calm and asked Mr T to see another adviser to carry out his 
transaction. Mr T then spoke to S2 where things became aggressive and abusive language 
was used towards staff.
Santander says there was shouting and swearing across the banking hall and members of 
staff gathered to ensure others were ok. Santander say Mr T was able to complete his 
transaction with another adviser (whom Ill call S3) who gave advice on other ways to access 
services without visiting branch. 
Mr T remained unhappy with the investigation of his complaint and outcome reached by 
Santander. He referred his complaint to our service for an independent review. Our 
investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld.
Mr T didnt accept the investigators recommendation so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
When considering this complaint Ive kept in mind that these events happened against the 
backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic. This caused unprecedented challenges for 
businesses as they tried to continue offering key services to customers whilst also looking 
after their staffs wellbeing. 
My key consideration in this case is to decide if Santander treated Mr T fairly and reasonably 
in branch.
The interaction between Mr T and S1 at the counter 
There are some similarities, but also some key differences, in the accounts of what 
happened by Mr T and Santander. Both parties are broadly in agreement there was an 
interaction between Mr T and S1 who asked him to adjust his mask which wasnt covering 
his nose. 
Mr T accepts he pulled down his mask when speaking to S1 - as he says his voice was 
muffled. From this point it seems the situation escalated, with:
S1 ultimately refusing to serve Mr T;
S3 then offering to serve him; and ultimately
Mr T being asked to leave by S2. 
The key difference in both parties accounts is that Santander say Mr T swore at staff and 
thats why he was asked to leave - but Mr T strongly disputes this. 
As outlined already, these events happened at a time that was a few months into the 
pandemic. I find it reasonable that S1 initially asked Mr T to adjust his facemask and Mr T 
accepts it wasnt covering his nose. In these circumstances asking a customer to properly 
wear a mask is reasonable in my opinion. 
After this initial interaction it seems Mr T may have pulled his mask down when talking to S1. 
Mr T has said he did this as his voice was muffled. I think that, although most likely not an 
attempt by Mr T to aggravate the situation, S1 may have interpreted this action as Mr T not 
complying with her instruction to wear his mask properly.
Around this time, Mr T asked S1 why she wasnt wearing a face mask. I find it more likely 
than not this was the tipping point which lead to this situation escalating. I say this because 
S1 had continued to be prepared to serve Mr T after the initial interaction about his mask not 
covering his nose and his pulling down of the mask when speaking. 
Mr T has said he asked about S1s non-mask wearing out of curiosity. S1 seemingly 
interpreted it as Mr T being challenging - because of what had gone before this part of their 
interaction. I dont find it was unreasonable of Mr T to ask S1 about her own mask wearing. 
At this point S1 said she no longer wished to serve Mr T. In their final response letter 
Santander stated: 
From speaking with the branch, they feel [S1] was calm and asked you to see 
another colleague, I appreciate this was frustrating for you.... Mr T says S1 spoke to him rudely and abruptly. Whilst this is Mr Ts interpretation, theres no 
independent witness statements to support what may or may not have been said or indeed 
how it was said. But overall I havent seen sufficient supporting evidence to conclude S1 was 
rude or abrupt to Mr T when questioning his mask wearing. 
However, I do find that some breakdown in communication and misunderstanding has taken 
place between Mr T and S1. For example: Mr Ts interpretation was that S1 was frosty and 
abrupt towards him, whereas S1 interpreted Mr Ts actions around mask wearing and 
subsequent enquiries about her own non-masking as challenging behaviour. 
All things considered, I dont find that Mr T was acting particularly unreasonably in asking the 
adviser about her own non-mask wearing or that he was choosing to be intentionally 
challenging. That said, the adviser has a right to feel comfortable in her interactions with 
customers - particularly whilst the pandemic was ongoing. It may well have been a simple 
misunderstanding, but S1 felt the relationship had broken down and a suitable alternative 
(another adviser) was offered to ensure Mr T was able to carry out his transaction. I accept 
that this will have been very frustrating for Mr T, but dealings between people in branch (and 
elsewhere) dont always go as smoothly as either party would like. 
Mr Ts interaction with other Santander staff
From Santanders perspective, it was after this that events quickly escalated. Mr T alleges 
that after being refused service by S1 and asked to move away from the counter area to be 
served by another member of staff, S2 ran towards him in an animated manner and broke 
social distancing rules. Santander dispute this happened and say that some staff may have 
gone to see what was happening and have referred to an alleged swear word used. Mr T 
denies swearing or being abusive towards Santander staff. 
Santander have said it was the alleged swearing/unreasonable behaviour that lead to S2 
asking Mr T to leave. There are verbal accounts of the incident from Santander staff, but 
Santander also had access to CCTV footage of some of Mr Ts branch visit. They say a 
camera didnt cover the area where the staff member is alleged to have run towards Mr T 
and the alleged swearing and unreasonable behaviour from Mr T is meant to have taken 
place.
Mr T has said that the CCTV footage would substantiate his account of how he was treated 
and what is alleged to have happened. Whilst I accept that CCTV footage generally wont 
have audio, having sight of any footage wouldve been extremely useful in the absence of 
independent witness statements and allowed a transparent comparison of the incident as 
described by both parties - alongside footage of how things played out. The non-retention of 
the CCTV footage is particularly disappointing given Mr T voiced his dissatisfaction with 
Santanders investigation outcome and his intention to refer the complaint to our service in 
phone calls and letters to Santander - but yet still the footage wasnt retained. So Ive to 
reached my decision based on the available evidence. 
I dont think it would be unreasonable to assume that Mr T was likely annoyed or frustrated 
at having been asked to move away from the counter by the initial adviser. This would be 
understandable. But I also find it unlikely that a Santander adviser would run towards Mr T at 
speed or in the manner described  unless Mr T had attracted their attention or they felt 
there was an incident on the branch floor that required some urgency. 
Mr T has said There were words exchanged between him and mehe was telling me 
that I would not be served in this branch. I told him I was waiting to be served by [S3]. I find it likely a misunderstanding took place between Mr T and S2 following Mr T being 
asked by S1 to use an alternative adviser. But ultimately Mr T was served by S3 and able to 
complete his transaction. Mr T has been complimentary towards S3 throughout his 
complaint. 
Mr T has alleged he was discriminated against in branch. But having carefully considered all 
of the evidence in this complaint, Im persuaded a breakdown in communication took place 
here and the situation escalated after this. I dont find any compelling evidence that Mr T was 
treated differently to any other customer in the same circumstances. Instead, I find that Mr T 
has interpreted the service not meeting his expectations as discrimination or victimisation.
Overall, based on the available evidence, Im not persuaded the service Mr T received from 
S1 and S2  including the alleged breaching of social distancing by S2  were so poor, or so 
substantial that I can fairly require Santander to do anything to put things right. 
I know Mr T will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute with Santander  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman