DRN-3260689
The complaint
Mrs A complains that MD Insurance Services Limited trading as Premier Guarantee wont 
tell her if her building warranty certificate is valid or not as she believes it was issued 
prematurely.
What happened
Mrs A purchased her new build property from a developer in May 2018 after an inspection 
which verbally passed it as habitable for occupation. It came with a new homes warranty 
cover note from Premier which warranted that a surveyor had carried out a satisfactory final 
inspection of the home. It also warranted that where building control had been carried out by 
an Approved Inspector the policy wouldnt start until formal confirmation had been received 
from the Approved Inspector that they werent aware of any circumstances that would restrict 
their ability to issue a final certificate. It also went on to say that on the basis of these two 
points, Premier agreed to issue a Certificate of Insurance for the property. 
Premier issued a Certificate of Insurance for its new homes warranty for Mrs As property in 
June 2018. 
Mrs A experienced issues with her new home and it became apparent that the developer 
hadnt satisfied all the necessary building regulations prior to her occupation. The developer 
had submitted a temporary certificate of occupation to local building control in May 2018 and 
an inspection was carried out (presumably by building control) prior to this date but building 
control declined to issue the temporary certificate on account of the outstanding issues at the 
property. Building control inspected again in July 2019 and a temporary certificate of 
occupation was submitted by the developer shortly thereafter. Building control issued the 
temporary certificate which was valid until the end of October 2019. Building control cited a 
list of additional items the developer needed to address before a completion certificate could 
be issued. 
Local building control issued notice of acceptance of the completion certificate in 
February 2020. 
Mrs A complained to Premier in May 2021. She said:
she felt let down by it because itd signed off on her property (by issuing the Certificate 
of Insurance in August 2018) whilst issues with the construction of her property remained 
outstanding and before itd been signed off by building control. 
that if shed needed to make a claim under the warranty shed have had to pay an 
excess which wouldve been unfair.
that if the property had been inspected properly and the issues spotted then, without 
Premiers sign off her mortgage lender wouldnt have completed the sale and the 
developer wouldve been made to rectify the issues (prior to occupation).
that as the property wasnt up to building standards, it was devalued at completion.
that shed unwittingly bought a property with multiple issues that werent identified as 
they shouldve been causing her a great deal of distress and inconvenience in trying to 
rectify them.
that Premiers prematurely issued Certificate of Insurance had been used by the 
developer to argue that the property had been built correctly (thereby adding to her 
stress).
that she mayve inadvertently committed mortgage fraud (because Premiers Certificate 
of Insurance is a condition of her mortgage lender). 
Premier told Mrs A in July 2021 that its investigation was ongoing and it was unable to issue 
her with its final response letter at that time. It gave Mrs A referral rights to this service and 
Mrs A duly submitted a complaint. 
Whilst our investigator was looking into Mrs As complaint. Premier told her that itd reviewed 
the circumstances around the complaint but didnt uphold it on the basis that its risk 
management surveyors had followed all the correct procedures. It said that once the risk 
management surveyor approves the plot, providing all the relevant conditions have been 
met, then it issues the Certificate of Insurance. It said the inspections undertaken by its 
surveyors had the sole purpose of ensuring each housing unit represented a normal risk for 
insurance under the Premier Guarantee for New Homes. It said it should not be inferred that 
its surveyors inspections were for any other purpose and its surveyors worked solely for the 
underwriter and werent responsible for managing developer liabilities or obligations.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She 
thought that the Certificate of Insurance was valid and had been correctly issued. She also 
said she could only look at a complaint about things that had actually happened not things 
that might happen. 
Mrs A disagreed with our investigators findings. She explained that she was qualified in 
architecture and felt gaslighted by Premier Guarantee. She also said she thought itd 
breached regulatory guidance in relation to honesty and integrity. Mrs A said it was untrue 
that building control issued a habitation or completion certificate in May 2018 prior to Premier 
issuing its Certificate of Insurance. She said no certification was provided until July 2019. 
Mrs A said that the only reason shed found out thered been no temporary or full completion 
certificate issued before the Certificate of Insurance was because she phoned building 
control to ask why the house had been signed off. She said that it was her understanding 
that a temporary habitation or full completion must be in place before Premier could issue its 
insurance certificate. 
Mrs A compared certain building regulations with Premier Guarantees technical standards 
to show both were essentially the same.
Our investigator looked at Mrs As complaint again but said she hadnt changed her mind 
principally because the certificate issued by building control predated the Certificate of 
Insurance. She said the technical requirements for the purposes of insurance can differ
from building regulation sign off, so the fact that the building was signed off in February 2020 
didnt meant Premier had done something wrong by issuing the insurance certificate before 
council sign off.
Mrs A remained unhappy with our investigators findings. She said again that there was no 
habitation certificate issued by building control prior to Premier issuing its Certificate of 
Insurance. She said that what Premier had in its possession was a letter from the developer, 
signed by the developer, to say the property had passed inspection. She said this letter 
wasnt signed by an Approved Inspector from building control. She said building control wouldnt have signed such a letter because it had identified outstanding work remained. 
Mrs A said the developer wasnt a building control inspector and nor was Premier. She said 
building control was there to ensure the building was up to standard so, she said, the 
developer had lied and Premier hadnt followed its own process. She said the developer had 
applied for temporary habitation but it was rejected by building control in May 2018. Mrs A 
remained of the view that prior to issuing its Certificate of Insurance, Premier hadnt checked 
whether a temporary certificate of occupation was in place. So she said Premier had let the 
sale on an unfinished property go ahead. She said that in order to obtain a mortgage it was 
necessary to have either a temporary habitation or full completion certificate in place before 
completion. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Premier provide structural warranties for new build properties. Mrs A received Premiers New 
Homes Warranty which provides cover in the event of a structural defect occurring during the 
first 10 years following completion. Premier also offers developers a building control service. 
Thats where it appoints one of its own Approved Inspectors to carry out all necessary 
building control on site. From the evidence Ive seen it doesnt seem to me that Premier was 
providing the developer with a building control service. I say that because Ive seen evidence 
in the form of correspondence that it was the local authority planning and development 
department that was carrying out building control for the site. 
So it seems to me that Premier was only providing a new homes warranty to the developer. 
When doing so it undertakes inspections to ensure building standards (not building 
regulations) are met. The inspections are undertaken by Premiers own risk management 
surveyor and after the final inspection he or she will approve the project and issue a 
Certificate of Insurance. Premier has told us that its risk management surveyors followed all 
its correct procedures. By that it means that its reasonable to assume it means it followed its 
own procedures prior to issuing the Certificate of Insurance. Its explained the purpose of its 
structural warranty inspections are to ensure each housing unit represents a normal risk for 
insurance under the Premier Guarantee for New Homes and not for any other purpose.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs A has had with her new home since completion 
and I fully appreciate that this must have been a difficult and stressful time for her. But 
despite my natural sympathy for the situation in which she has found herself, I dont think 
that Premier has behaved unfairly or unreasonably by issuing its Certificate of Insurance 
before the local building control department issued either a temporary habitation of full 
completion certificate. Ive seen no evidence that it was necessary for Premier to wait for 
either document to be issued before issuing its own Certificate. 
I say this because the warranty and building control sign off are separate from each other. I 
cant fully agree with Mrs A that no habitation certificate was issued before Premier issued its 
Certificate of Insurance because Ive seen a Verbal Habitation document on the developers 
headed paper that says the property has been inspected by building control and verbally 
passed as being habitable for occupation. It is signed by the site agent. I do accept that, 
given the local authority building inspector declined to issue its own official temporary 
certificate of occupation around the same time, the Verbal Habitation document carries little 
weight as to the compliance of the developer with building regulations.Ive thought about Mrs As comment that it was her understanding that a temporary 
habitation or full completion must be in place before Premier could issue its insurance 
certificate, but the evidence Ive seen, some of which Ive referred to in the paragraphs 
above, doesnt seem to support that. I taken Premiers Cover Note for the New Homes 
Warranty into account and I note that it says that where building control has been carried out 
by an Approved Inspector the policy will not commence until formal confirmation has been 
received from him or her that they arent aware of any circumstances that would restrict their 
ability to issue a final certificate (of insurance). It goes on to say that this is the basis on 
which Premier agrees to issue the Certificate. 
But I cant agree that this requirement applied in Mrs As circumstances because Premier 
didnt provide a building control service to the developer and so there was no Approved 
Inspector. Building control, as Ive said, rested with the local authority and there is nothing in 
the cover note that says Premier has to wait unit a temporary habitation or full completion 
certificate from a building control inspector is issued. 
So it follows that I dont think that Premier signed off Mrs As property before it was ready. It 
issued a Certificate of Insurance for the warranty because it was satisfied the risk of doing so 
had been properly assessed. If there is an excess under the policy when making a claim 
then, this would need paying. Fortunately Mrs A hasnt had to make a claim as far as Im 
aware so hasnt had to pay one. Premier is providing an insurance product for structural 
defects so I cant see that it was its role to point out issues to the developer which wouldve 
stopped the sale until any issues were rectified. That seems to me to be the role of building 
control. I cant look here at any complaint about the developer citing the existence of the 
warranty as proof that the house had been built properly. This service has no jurisdiction 
over the developer so that is something Mrs A will have to raise with it directly. 
Similarly I cant look here at Mrs As complaint that in order to obtain a mortgage either a 
temporary habitation or full completion certificate needed to be in place before completion. 
Thats an issue, in the first instance for building control and/or her mortgage lender. 
I think that Premier issued a valid Certificate of Insurance and have seen no evidence that it 
didnt. I hope that the fact it did puts Mrs As mind at rest in regard to her apprehension that 
she had inadvertently committed mortgage fraud. 
It follows that Im unable to uphold Mrs As complaint as I dont think Premier treated her 
unfairly or unreasonably by issuing the Certificate of Insurance when it did.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman