DRN-4349250
The complaint
Mrs C says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with her claims under the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to five timeshare products she purchased.
The claims, which are the subject of this complaint, are Mrs Cs to make because they stem 
from credit agreements in her name only. Whilst the products were purchased under 
agreements in joint names, I will only refer to Mrs C throughout my decision.   
What happened
In or around September 2009, Mrs C attended a meeting with a timeshare supplier who Ill 
refer to throughout this decision as L. During that meeting, Mrs C agreed to convert an 
existing timeshare product she held to a new points-based products provided by L (Purchase 
1). 
This conversion resulted in an allocation of 111,500 points which could be used to book 
holiday accommodation with L. The product had a purchase price of £6,900. This was 
funded by BPF under a finance account agreement in Mrs Cs sole name (Loan 1). This 
amount was later repaid in March 2010.
In or around September 2010, Mrs C agreed to upgrade her existing points holding with L by 
purchasing an additional 30,000 points at a cost of £5,381 (Purchase 2). Again, this amount 
was funded by BPF using the same finance account (Loan 2). This amount was repaid in 
March 2011.
In or around September 2012, Mrs C agreed to upgrade her existing points holding with L by 
purchasing an additional 60,000 points at a cost of £9,300 (Purchase 3). Again, this amount 
was funded by BPF using the same finance account (Loan 3). This amount was repaid in 
March 2013.
In or around September 2015, Mrs C agreed to upgrade her existing points holding with L by 
purchasing an additional 50,000 points at a cost of £5,950 (Purchase 4). Mrs C says this 
was funded by a fixed-sum loan from BPF for £5,950 in Mrs Cs sole name (Loan 4).
In or around November 2017, Mrs C agreed to upgrade her existing points holding with L by 
purchasing an additional 99,000 points at a cost of £16,371 (Purchase 5). This was funded 
by a fixed-sum loan from BPF for £16,371 over a term of 180 months in Mrs Cs sole name 
(Loan 5).
In June 2021, Mrs C wrote to BPF to raise a complaint specifically referring to the loan 
agreements in 2015 and 2017. In her complaint, Mrs C alleges that L didnt hold the 
necessary authorisation to arrange loans under section 19 of FSMA1 (S19). Mrs C also 
asked BPF to provide details of the credit checks, searches and assessments they 
completed when assessing the suitability of the loan(s). However, it appears Mrs C didnt 
receive a response from BPF.
In November 2021, using a professional representative (the PR), Mrs Cs referred her 
complaint to this service. In doing so, the PR included various additional points not 
previously raised with BPF. These included claims under sections 75 and 140A of the CCA. 
1 The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
The PRs submission is quite lengthy in its content, so I dont propose to repeat everything 
theyve said in my decision. However, they alleged the credit intermediary was not 
authorised under section 19 of FSMA. Further, that L misrepresented the products sold by 
claiming:
the product was an exclusive holiday club membership;
Mrs C would be given priority to stay at luxury resorts around the world at any time of 
her choosing; and
the product membership wasnt a timeshare.
The PR thought an unfair debtor/creditor relationship existed due to:
the misrepresentations;
the sky high interest rate payable on the loans; and
the lengthy and pressurised sales presentation.
The PR also thought thered been
breaches of applicable legislation, regulations and codes of practice; and
a failure to complete an assessment of affordability and suitability of the loans.
As the legal claims and complaint points hadnt all previously been raised with BPF, one of 
our investigators asked BPF to consider the allegations first. It doesnt appear BPF have 
issued a substantive response. But they have confirmed they couldnt locate loans for the 
purchases made in 2010 and 2012. And as the loan taken out in 2009 was settled in March 
2013, they thought any claim relating to this had been brought too late under the Limitation 
Act 1980 (LA). They also said their records showed the loan in 2015 wasnt taken up. 
Having considered all the information available, our investigator didnt agree L wasnt 
authorised under S19. They also didnt consider the claim under purchase 4 as it appeared 
the loan wasnt taken up. Our investigator thought any claim for the first three loans had 
been brought too late under the LA. Having considered the fifth purchase and loan, our 
investigator couldnt find any evidence to support the allegations made, or that there was any 
evidence to suggest the loan was unaffordable for Mrs C. As a consequence, the 
investigator didnt think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld.
The PR responded at length to our investigators findings explaining why they disagreed. 
Again, I dont propose to repeat everything said but would summarise as follows:
they requested evidence to prove Ls authorisation to introduce credit and that it 
acted lawfully under that authorisation;
L has a conflict of interest under Principle 8 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses;
Postponement of limitation applies pursuant to section 32 of the LA due to fraudulent 
misrepresentation and concealment of relevant facts;
There was a lack of weight placed upon Mrs Cs testimony and recollections;
The PR disagrees that BPF completed the regulatory affordability checks and 
assessments required.
Further, the PR suggest Mrs C wasnt given time to consider the purchase and loan 
agreements. And also point out that verbal promises made by L to Mrs C werent included in 
the paperwork such as the product being an investment. Further arguments were 
subsequently presented to reinforce the PRs disagreement to our investigators findings.
As an informal resolution couldnt be achieved, Mrs Cs complaint was passed to me to 
consider further. Having done that, while I was inclined to reach the same outcome as our investigator, I considered a number of aspects which I dont feel were previously fully 
addressed. So, I issued a provisional decision on 16 August 2023 giving both sides the 
chance to respond before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP2 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
Section 75 of the CCA (S75) provides protection to consumers for goods or 
services bought using credit. Where Mrs C paid for the timeshare products under 
regulated agreements with BPF, it isnt in dispute that S75 applies. This means Mrs 
C is afforded the protection offered to borrowers like her under those provisions. And 
as a result, Ive taken this section into account when deciding whats fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 140A of the CCA (S140A) looks at the fairness of the relationship between 
Mrs C and BPF arising out of the credit agreements (taken together with any related 
agreements). And where products were funded under credit agreements, they are 
deemed to be related agreements. Only a court has the power to make a 
determination under S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding 
what I believe is fair and reasonable. 
Given the facts of Mrs Cs complaint, relevant law also includes the LA. This sets out 
time limits within which legal claims can be made. Claims under S75 and 140A are 
legal claims. Only a court is able to make a ruling under the LA. But as its relevant 
law, and because there were purchases allegedly funded by loans with BPF in 2009, 
2010 and 2012, I need to consider how the provisions of the LA may impact any 
claim.
Its important to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being 
considered here specifically relates to whether I believe BPFs treatment of Mrs Cs 
claim was fair and reasonable given all the evidence and information available, rather 
than deciding the claim itself. This service isnt able to make legal findings. As Ive 
already said, thats the role of the courts. While the decision of an ombudsman can 
be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont provide a legal service. 
Where Mrs C doesnt accept my findings, this doesnt prejudice her right to pursue 
his claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened based upon the 
evidence thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. 
The S75 claim relating to purchases 1, 2 and 3
A S75 claim for misrepresentation is an action [that is a court action] to recover any 
sum by virtue of any enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period 
under that provision is six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. 
So here, I believe Mrs C had to make a claim within six years of when she entered 
into the purchase contract and credit agreement. 
2 The Dispute Resolution Sourcebook from the FCAs Handbook of Rules and GuidanceThe evidence shows these purchases were completed in 2009, 2010 and 2012. And 
the PR agrees that was the case. So, that is when Mrs C says she lost out having 
relied upon the alleged false statements of fact at that time.
Details of the alleged misrepresentation were first submitted to this service in 
November 2021. Theres no evidence any claim was raised with BPF before then. 
And as this was more than six years after the purchase, I think a court is likely to find 
that Mrs Cs claim was raised too late.
The S140A claim relating to purchases 1, 2 and 3
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is 
also governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a 
claim is also six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. 
However, in determining whether or not the relationship complained of was unfair, 
the High Courts decision in Patel v Patel (2009) decided this could only be 
determined by having regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially 
relevant matters up to the time of making the determination. In that case, that was 
the date of the trial or otherwise the date the relationship ended.
So, having considered this, I believe the trigger point here is slightly different. Any 
relationship between Mrs C and BPF continued while the finance agreements 
remained live. So, that relationship only ended once the agreements ended and any 
borrowing under them was repaid.
The credit account used to fund these purchase was settled in full in March 2013. Ive 
seen a statement and a letter BPF sent to Mrs C which confirms this. I think this is 
the point at which the relationship ended in respect of those loans and the associated 
purchase agreements. 
Allegations of unfairness were also first submitted to this service in November 2021. 
Theres no evidence any claim was raised with BPF before then. And as this was 
more than six years after the borrowing was repaid under the associated credit 
agreement, I think a court is likely to find that Mrs Cs claim was raised too late here 
also.
Could the limitation period be postponed?
The PR argue that the limitation period should be extended under Section 32 of the 
LA because facts relevant to her claim were fraudulently misrepresented to her and 
deliberately concealed. 
Section 32(1)(b) applies when any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has 
been deliberately concealed from him by the defendant [my emphasis]. But the PR 
havent provided me with anything persuasive to suggest that L deliberately 
concealed anything in relation to the various allegations that Mrs C wouldnt have 
realised shortly after each sale was completed. And as I still cant see why, given the 
allegations fuelling each claim, these particular issues prevented Mrs C from making 
her claim or - at the very least - raising a complaint earlier, my view is that this 
particular argument by the PR doesnt help her cause. 
Based upon my findings above, Im not persuaded that theres any reason why a 
court might decide time could be extended in keeping with the provisions of the S32 
of the LA.
Is there a valid claim in respect of purchase 4?
Its suggested that this purchase was agreed and completed in 2015. However, while 
it appears loan documentation was issued by BPF and signed by Mrs C, BPF say the 
loan was never taken up. Theyve provided evidence from their systems to support that assertion. And Ive seen nothing from Mrs C to show that the loan was taken up, 
or that loan repayments to it have been made since then.
Ive also looked at the Purchase Agreement forms for both the 2015 and 2017 
purchases. In each case, the fifth page details the total points held by Mrs C at the 
point of purchase together with the points purchased under that new agreement and 
the resultant points holding.  
The 2015 agreement shows that Mrs C held 201,500 points  this being the total of 
the points purchased in 2009 (111,500), 2010 (30,000) and 2012 (60,000). The 
agreement shows that the 2015 purchase would increase her holding to 251,500. But 
the 2017 agreement also shows that Mrs C still held 201,500 points at the time of 
that purchase. So, it appears the 50,000 allegedly purchased in 2015 werent 
included. 
Based upon this evidence and BPFs confirmation that the 2015 loan wasnt taken 
up, on balance it appears likely that Mrs C didnt complete that purchase. The 
evidence supports that view. And in the absence of anything to demonstrate that 
wasnt the case, Im not persuaded that the purchase did, in fact, proceed. Or that the 
loan was taken up. For that reason, I dont believe Mrs C is able to make any claim in 
respect of this alleged transaction. 
The S75 claim for purchase 5
Its suggested that L made various representations about the product Mrs C 
purchased in 2017. From the information available, I cant be certain about what Mrs 
C was specifically told (or not told) about the benefits of the products she purchased. 
Limited details have been provided about these representations and Mrs Cs overall 
recollections of the sales process. And despite the PRs assertions in their response 
to our investigator, Ive not seen any detailed statement (evidentially supported or 
otherwise) from her setting out her direct and specific memories. 
It was, however, indicated that she was told these things. So, Ive thought about that 
alongside the other evidence available. Although not determinative of the matter, I 
havent seen any documentation which supports the assertions made by the PR on 
Mrs Cs behalf. Although Ive seen the purchase agreement, Ive seen no marketing 
material or further detailed documentation from the time of the sale that echoes what 
she says she was told. Whether in terms of booking availability, exclusivity, flexibility 
or otherwise.
I also dont think the contract can have been marketed and sold as an investment 
contrary to The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts 
Regulations 2010 (the TRs) simply because there might have been some inherent 
value to Mrs Cs membership. In fact, no such suggestion has been made. And in 
any event, Ive found nothing within the limited evidence provided to suggest L 
provided any assurances or guarantees about the future value of the product 
purchased. L would had to have presented the membership in such a way that used 
its investment element to persuade Mrs C to contract. Only then would it have fallen 
foul of the prohibition on marketing and selling certain holiday products as an 
investment, contrary to Regulation 14(3) of the TRs. 
On balance, and in the absence of supporting evidence from the time of the sale, I 
therefore cant reasonably say, with any certainty, that L did in fact make the alleged 
misrepresentations. 
The S140A claim for purchase 5
The pressured sale and processThe claim suggests Mrs C purchased the loan following a lengthy and pressurised 
sales presentation. I acknowledge what the PR have said about this. So, I can 
understand why it might be argued that the prolonged nature of the presentation 
might have felt like a pressured sale  especially if, as Mrs C approached the closing 
stages, she was going to have to make a decision on the day in order to avoid 
missing out on an offer that may not have been available at a later date.
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Mr C agreed to the purchase in 2017 when she simply didnt 
want to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that she went on to say 
something to L, after the purchase, to suggest shed agreed to it when she didnt 
want to. And neither the PR nor Mrs C have provided a credible explanation for why 
she didnt subsequently seek to cancel the purchase within the 14-day cooling off 
period permitted here. 
If she only agreed to the purchase because she felt she was pressured, I find this 
aspect difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I havent seen anything 
substantive to suggest Mrs C was obviously harassed or coerced into the purchase.  
And because of that, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate 
she made the decision to proceed because her ability to exercise choice was  or 
was likely to have been  significantly impaired.
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
[BPF] and matters relating to the debtor [Mrs C).
Mrs C already held existing timeshare product points shed purchased previously 
from L. Importantly; the new purchase appears to relate to an upgrade of her existing 
timeshare product holding. It wasnt a new product purchase. And Mrs C wasnt a 
new customer of L. So, its likely she wouldve benefitted from her previous 
experience and what she might expect from the meeting and sales presentation in 
2017.
Whilst there could be potential for a court to decide that some of the allegations might 
have led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship here, I think any decision is likely to 
be taken within the context of Mrs Cs overall experience. And even if I was to find 
that some of the information couldve been clearer during the sale  and I make no 
such finding  I think its unlikely a court might say this led to a sufficiently extreme 
imbalance in knowledge to render the debtor-creditor relationship unfair.
Time to consider the agreement
Ive seen very limited documentation from the time of the sale. But there is a page 
within the Purchase Agreement headed RIGHT OF WITHDRAWAL. It clearly states 
that Mrs C has the right to withdraw from this contract within 14 calendar days 
without giving any reason"  as required under the TRs.
So, even if I were to find that Mrs C wasnt given adequate opportunity to read, 
consider and understand the purchase documentation at the time of the sale - and I 
make no such finding - I would expect her to have had sufficient time in which to 
consider her decision within the subsequent 14 days. And, where appropriate, raise 
any questions or concerns before the loan was drawn and the purchase completed. 
Theres no suggestion or evidence that Mrs C did raise any questions or concerns 
prior to the sale being completed. Or that she had any intention of cancelling the 
agreement.
Interest rate applied to the loan
Ive carefully considered the interest rate that applied in this case and whether it feels 
fair in all the circumstances. Mrs C accepted and signed the loan agreement in November 2017 which clearly set out the annual rate of interest (and the APR). I 
think the rate that applied to Mrs Cs loan appears to be comparable with similar 
products and loans Ive seen before, and I dont believe it was unreasonable. So, Im 
not persuaded that the interest rate payable for the loan risked making the debtor-
creditor relationship unfair under Section 140A.
The authorised status of L
This services records show that L fell under our Consumer Credit Jurisdiction at the 
time the purchases were completed in 2009, 2010 and 2012. At the time of purchase 
5 in 2017, L was included under this services Compulsory Jurisdiction. Whilst 
acknowledging the PRs responses to our investigators view, I would like to reassure 
them that the checks Ive completed satisfy me they were appropriately authorised. 
There are allegations that whilst L may have been authorised, by virtue of the 
suggested misrepresentations and unfairness, their authorisation was exercised 
unlawfully. However, as Ive found no evidence to support the allegations, Im not 
persuaded that was the case.
The PR also suggest L had a conflict of interest under Principle 8 of the FCAs 
Principles for Businesses. Such a conclusion would preclude many suppliers from 
introducing any form of consumer credit finance. Furthermore, L wasnt acting as an 
agent for Mrs C, but as the supplier of contractual rights obtained under a timeshare 
product agreement. And, in relation to any loan, based upon what Ive seen so far, it 
doesnt appear it was Ls role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation 
or to give Mrs C advice or information on that basis. As far as Im aware, Mrs C was 
always at liberty to choose how she wanted to fund any purchase and there was no 
requirement or duty upon L to provide funding recommendations or options. So, I 
dont agree such a conflict existed.
Were the required lending checks undertaken?
There are certain aspects of Mrs Cs claim that could be considered outside of S75 
and S140A. In particular, in relation to whether BPF undertook a proper credit 
assessment. The PR have made an allegation suggesting the loan was provided 
irresponsibly. In particular that no affordability or credit checks were undertaken by 
BPF.
BPF havent provided specific details of their credit assessment for the first three 
loans  which appear to have been funded under a revolving credit facility. And given 
the passage of time, I wouldnt reasonably expect that information to still be 
available. Ive seen a statement of the finance account with BPF that Mrs C used to 
fund those purchases. It shows that each advance for each purchase was promptly 
repaid in full well within the first year of each advance being drawn. 
BPF have confirmed that Mrs Cs loan application in 2017 was accepted by their 
credit assessment systems having passed their affordability checks. This included a 
review of Mrs Cs credit profile at the time. Ive seen a copy of the information 
revealed from BPFs credit checks which confirms Mrs Cs income situation at the 
time and provides details of her credit history. Having considered this, I cant see 
anything adverse reported at the time that might give BPF cause for concern about 
her ability to sustainably repay the loan.
BPF havent provided a detailed explanation of how their credit assessments 
operate. And I wouldnt expect them to do so given the commercially sensitive nature 
of such systems and processes. But it seems clear that checks were undertaken. If I 
were to find that the checks and tests completed didnt comply with the requisite 
regulatory requirements  and I make no such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had the checks complied, they wouldve revealed that the loan repayments 
werent sustainably affordable for Mrs C in order to uphold her complaint here.
The CMC have provided copies of Mrs Cs bank statements covering the three 
months prior to the purchase and loan in 2017. Ive considered these and the PRs 
observations together with the information from BPF. Having done so, Im not 
persuaded any of the evidence demonstrates that Mrs C financial position was such 
that it would reasonably lead BPF to believe the loan wasnt sustainably affordable 
for her. And because of that, I cant reasonably conclude the loan was unaffordable 
for her or that she suffered loss as a consequence. 
Summary
Im mindful that the original complaint to BPF didnt include the claims under S75 and 
S140A, together with many of the other allegations. But BPF have been willing to 
consider the claim points raised following this services referral of them. While I 
acknowledge that BPF havent yet issued a substantive response to Mrs C, having 
carefully considered everything thats been said and provided, I cant reasonably 
conclude that BPFs failure to uphold the claims made was unfair or unreasonable. 
And because of that, I dont currently intend to ask them to do anything more here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision. In doing so, they confirmed they did 
not wish to submit any further information for me to consider. Despite a follow up request to 
the PR from this service, theyve neither acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision 
nor provided any new information or comment. 
The time given for responses has now passed and in the absence of anything new or 
different to consider, Ive no reason to vary from my provisional findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman