DRN-4174857
The complaint
X is complaining that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase (Chase) didnt comply 
with the reasonable adjustments X had requested due to their disability.
What happened
X has a medical condition and in November 2021 they let Chase know that they required 
reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 2010. X said they were horribly affected by 
phone calls and by receiving letters in the post. Chase noted that they should not attempt to 
call X or post letters to them. 
X has previously raised a complaint with our service about Chases contact with them. They 
said they didnt want to be contacted through the online chat function through Chases app  
even though X had contacted Chase through this function. The investigator at that time 
thought it was reasonable for Chase to contact X through the online chat function as they 
needed a way of getting in contact with X when X contacted them.
In June 2022 Chase attempted to call X in response to a payment dispute theyd raised via 
the online chat function, after X had asked for an email, but not provided an email address. 
And on 11 July 2022 and 21 September 2022 Chase sent X final response letters by post. 
X raised a complaint with Chase. Chase replied to Xs complaint, apologising for their 
adviser attempting to call X, and paid X £40 in compensation. 
X brought their complaint to us. As well as complaining about Chase sending letters and 
attempting a call, Xs complaint was, in summary:
Theyd asked only to be contacted during working hours (between 9.00am and 
5.00pm) but Chase was contacting them outside of these hours;
They only want to be contacted via email; and
Chase had mentioned phone calls in correspondence with them.
Our investigator looked into Xs complaint. She didnt think £40 was enough to recognise the 
impact on X of Chase not adhering to the reasonable adjustments X had asked for. She 
asked Chase to pay £300 in compensation. 
She also said that Chases templated and automatic responses may mention phone calls as 
a way of getting in touch  and she didnt think this was unreasonable as X was aware they 
had another way of contacting Chase. She thought Chase werent unreasonable to decide 
they couldnt correspond with X only via email, as it wasnt a secure method  so she 
thought it fair that they could continue to correspond via the online chat when they needed 
to, and when X contacted them this way. She thought Chase should only contact X during 
the working hours theyd requested.
X replied to say they didnt think the investigator had addressed all their complaint points  
although they didnt explain what points they thought the investigator hadnt addressed.
Chase replied to say, in summary, that they accepted they hadnt adhered to Xs reasonable 
adjustments when theyd sent them two letters by post but couldnt explain how that had 
happened. They also explained that the adviser had attempted to call X in June because X 
had raised disputed transactions through the online chat and they needed more information 
 and although X had asked for an email and ended the chat, they hadnt given an email 
address in the chat, so a call was attempted. 
They thought £300 in compensation was too much and said theyd already paid X £40  but 
theyd be prepared to pay £150.
Chase also said that if X contacted them through the app outside of the agreed contact 
hours, they didnt think it would be unreasonable for them to reply straight away, especially 
for an urgent matter such as a payment dispute. So, they couldnt guarantee they would only 
contact X between 9.00am and 5.00pm if X contacted them outside of these hours. And as a 
24/7 bank theyd sometimes need to contact customers outside of working hours  for 
example, with updates on availability issues or notifications of variations of terms. 
The investigator considered Chases points and issued another view to clarify the position. 
She said, in summary, that if X contacted Chase outside of working hours it wouldnt be 
unreasonable for them to respond at the time. She thought any other communication should 
be made within working hours. She still thought overall compensation of £300 was 
reasonable in all the circumstances. And as Chase had already paid X £40, she was 
recommending they pay X a further £260. 
Neither Chase or X accepted the investigators view, so the complaint has now been passed 
to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Phone calls and letters
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Chase attempted to contact X by phone and also sent 
them two letters in the post, contrary to the reasonable adjustments agreed. 
I do understand the adviser was in a difficult position when they attempted to call X in June 
2022. They needed more information from X, and X had ended the chat conversation by 
telling them to send an email, but hadnt provided an email address. But Chase do have a 
reasonable adjustment for X recorded which says not to attempt calls. And I dont think it 
was reasonable for the adviser to bypass that, even in the circumstances Chase have 
explained.
X has explained the impact of receiving post and phone calls, as having a horrible effect. 
And from what were aware of about Xs medical condition and its effect on them, Im 
satisfied that receiving post and calls does genuinely cause X significant distress. 
 
Ive thought carefully about what Chase have said about the level of compensation. But Im 
also taking into account the significant impact on X of them receiving letters and calls, and 
the fact that Chase have been aware of the reasonable adjustments X required for some 
time. I think the distress this issue caused to X could have been avoided relatively easily 
here. So, I do think the overall compensation amount of £300 (including the £40 Chase have already paid to X for the attempted phone call) suggested by the investigator is fair and 
reasonable.
Ongoing reasonable adjustments
Businesses have a duty under the Equality Act 2010 to make reasonable adjustments to 
allow users to access their services. This can include tailoring their services to a customers 
needs. But this doesnt mean theyre required to comply with every adjustment a customer 
asks for, if its not practical to make that adjustment.
Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account here  given that its relevant law 
but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. If X wants a 
decision that Chase have breached the Equality Act 2010, then theyd need to go to Court.
Chase, in providing banking services to X, will sometimes need to communicate with X 
securely  and so I agree that it wouldnt be practical or reasonable for them to correspond 
with X solely by email, which isnt always secure. The online chat functions offers this secure 
method of communication, and after their previous complaint X is aware of our findings that 
its reasonable for Chase to communicate with X via the online chat function.
I want to stress that if X doesnt want to continue with an online chat at any point, this 
doesnt mean that Chase must correspond by email instead. If more information is needed 
that X doesnt provide through the chat when asked, this may mean that Xs query isnt 
progressed. And I would add that I dont think its unreasonable for Chase to reply to X 
straight away when X contacts them via the online chat - even if thats outside of Xs 
requested communication times.
On occasion, when they contact Chase, X may receive automatic acknowledgements or 
responses which include an option for getting in touch by phone. X has sent us an example 
of such a reply that they received when emailing Chases general support email address. X 
has replied to say the options arent suitable for their disabilities. 
But I dont think that, practically, Chase can guarantee that X will never receive these sorts 
of responses. And as the investigators mentioned, X is already aware that in their own 
circumstances they wont be required to call Chase due to the reasonable adjustments 
agreed. So, Im not going to ask Chase to pay compensation for any distress X experienced 
by receiving these sorts of automatic acknowledgements or responses.
For other correspondence and communication, including email replies that arent 
immediately time sensitive, I think Chase should endeavour to contact X within the agreed 
hours. I accept that unpredicted issues can occur and there are some issues, such as 
systems being unavailable, which may need to be communicated to all customers urgently 
as and when they arise.
The other example Chase have referred to is a notice of variation of terms which they say 
they usually send to affected customers at midnight, when the new terms come into effect. 
But going forward I dont think its asking too much for Chase to arrange for planned 
communications such as this to be sent to X at a different time to other customers, in line 
with the reasonable adjustments X has requested. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Xs complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase should pay X an additional £260. They should also put arrangements in place to send email replies and planned, general, communications 
to X during the working hours X has requested.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman