DRN-4105264
The complaint
Miss S has complained about Retail Money Market Ltd (trading as RateSetter) holding her 
liable for a debt which she says was the result of ID theft.
What happened
This complaint surrounds an unsecured personal loan of £10,000, taken out in Miss Ss 
name in mid-2022.
Miss S has explained that her friend of some years offered to lend her money to help her 
start investing in cryptocurrency. He helped her set up a crypto account using her personal 
details, a copy of her ID, and her account number and sort code. He then used those to 
apply for loans without her consent, and told Miss S that the credits to her account were from 
the various businesses he owned. He convinced Miss S to forward the money on for his 
investment scheme, but ended up just taking all the money himself. In the end, Miss S 
realised shed been scammed, and the friend began threatening her. She says this loan is 
one of the ones he took out.
Our investigator looked into things independently and partially upheld the complaint. They 
found that Miss S had not taken out the loan herself, but that shed also not questioned 
things sufficiently, particularly as another loan was paid into her account with a reference 
which made it clear it was a loan. So they thought she should be liable for the loans 
principal, but not its interest, fees, or credit file implications.
RateSetter agreed to remove the interest and fees, and to remove the entry from Miss Ss 
credit file. Miss S asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems that both sides now accept that Miss S was scammed, and that the loan was taken 
out by someone else without her consent. This is also supported by the wider evidence, 
such as some of the details provided at application not matching up to Miss S, another 
business finding that those details linked to people on the national fraud database, Miss Ss 
clear and consistent testimony thats backed up the copies of messages shes provided, and 
RateSetters identity check call being with someone who was clearly not Miss S.
Im reasonably satisfied that Miss S did not agree to this loan, or its term, schedule of 
repayments, interest rate, and so on. And broadly speaking, RateSetter cant fairly hold 
Miss S to the terms of a loan agreement she didnt actually agree to, nor should it report an 
account on her credit file that she didnt actually take out. So it follows that RateSetter 
shouldnt hold Miss S liable for any interest or fees, nor report it on her credit file.
When it comes to the principal of the loan, I need to consider whether Miss S should have 
reasonably realised that the money shed received was a loan, and whether she did enough 
to verify what was really going on.
By the time Miss S received this RateSetter loan, she had already received loans from other 
companies, including one with a payment reference which set out clearly that it was a loan. 
I can see that Miss Ss own bank contacted her to discuss the odd account activity, and 
discussed the possibility that she was being scammed. But Miss S repeatedly assured her 
bank that everything was legitimate, telling them a made-up story that her friend told her to 
tell. Similarly, I can see that Miss Ss bank gave her warnings about investment scams, but 
she went ahead anyway. And I cant see that Miss S carried out reasonable checks or due 
diligence to verify what her friend was telling her.
I do understand that Miss S was being pressured by a friend who she trusted, and of course 
I sympathise with the fact that she fell victim to a scam. But by the time the RateSetter loan 
was paid into her account, I find that she no longer had a reasonable basis to believe what 
her friend was telling her, whereas she should have reasonably realised that she was 
receiving the proceeds of loans which would need to be paid back.
So based on what both sides have said and provided, I cant fairly tell RateSetter to write off 
the principal of this loan. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult 
message for Miss S to receive. But given circumstances of the case and the evidence at 
hand, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
Putting things right
I direct Retail Money Market Ltd to remove any interest and fees from this loan, and to 
remove it from Miss Ss credit record, along with any other negative information they may 
have recorded against her in relation to this loan. However, I find that they can still hold 
Miss S liable for the principal sum of the loan  just not under the terms of the loan 
agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ss complaint in part, and direct Retail Money 
Market Ltd to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman