DRN-4169882
The complaint
Ms M complains Nationwide Building Society (NBS) failed to get her money back for flights 
she didnt receive.
What happened
Ms Ms NBS debit card was charged £379.04 by an online travel agent Ill call K on 9 May 
2022. Ms M contacted NBS on 1 June 2022 to say she had paid for travel services from K  
specifically some flights  and had not received them or any booking confirmation or tickets 
or invoice.
NBS attempted to dispute the payment on Ms Ms debit card via the Visa chargeback 
system, on or around 21 June 2022. It wrote to Ms M to say it was giving her a temporary 
credit for the amount of £379.04, but that if the dispute was unsuccessful it would need to 
take this money back out of her account.
K challenged the chargeback. It said it had confirmed the booking with the airline in question 
and the tickets and details had been sent to the email address and telephone number 
provided with the booking. It supplied copies of confirmation emails, an invoice for the flights 
and additional baggage, confirmation the flights had flown and an audit trail showing where 
its emails had been sent to and whether theyd been opened. The documents showed two 
tickets had been purchased, one for Ms M and one for a Mr G. It appeared it was Mr G who 
had made the booking.
NBS decided at this point that it could not continue to dispute the payment in the face of this 
evidence. It informed Ms M the dispute had failed and took the temporary credit back. This 
prompted a complaint from Ms M, who now also said the payment was fraudulent. 
NBS rejected Ms Ms complaint. It said that as Ms M had told them she had intended to 
make the payment, it did not consider the matter to be fraud and it could only dispute the 
payment via the Visa chargeback process, which had been unsuccessful. It said there was 
nothing more it could do for Ms M.
Dissatisfied with this response, Ms M brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, where it was looked into by one of our investigators. Our investigator asked both 
parties to the complaint some questions and ultimately concluded that NBS hadnt done 
anything wrong. She suggested that it would be helpful however if Ms M could provide some 
more information about Mr Gs involvement in the transaction.
Ms M did not provide any information regarding Mr G, but asked that her case be considered 
by an ombudsman. The complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a person buys goods or services using a debit card, there is no automatic right to a 
refund from their bank if something goes wrong with what theyve bought. However, a bank 
may be able to help their customer through the dispute resolution system administered by 
the card scheme whose logo appears on the card (Visa in this case). Disputes raised via this 
mechanism are usually referred to as chargebacks.
Chargebacks are not a way of determining a persons legal rights to a refund from a 
merchant in relation to a purchase, they are a way of settling disputes according to the rules 
set by the card schemes. The rules cover matters such as what kinds of disputes can be 
pursued, the kind of evidence required, and the timeframes in which things must be done. 
Chargebacks are not guaranteed to succeed  they can be challenged by the other side to 
the dispute. If no side is willing to concede then ultimately the card scheme itself can be 
asked to rule on the dispute.
I would expect NBS to have attempted a chargeback on behalf of a customer looking to 
bring a dispute, so long as there was a reasonable prospect of the chargeback succeeding 
and attempting one would be compliant with the card schemes rules. If such a chargeback 
was challenged by the other side to the dispute, I would expect NBS to look carefully at the 
submissions made by the other side and make a decision on whether to continue pursuing 
the chargeback. I would not expect NBS to pursue it further if the further submissions 
showed it no longer had a reasonable prospect of success. On the other hand, I would also 
not expect NBS to accept an obviously incorrect or unreasonable challenge from the other 
side to the dispute.
In Ms Ms case, she approached NBS stating that shed not received the services shed paid 
K for. This is the sort of scenario which the card scheme rules state a chargeback can be 
attempted for, and NBS did so. However, it was challenged by K.
Ive considered the information K provided carefully. On the balance of probabilities, I think 
this shows the following:
Mr G booked plane tickets for himself and Ms M. Ms Ms NBS debit card was used to 
pay for the booking.
K made the bookings with the airline. Confirmation of the tickets was sent to the 
email address provided by Mr G, and the emails were opened by the recipient.
Mr G later contacted K, prior to the date of the flights, to enquire about the baggage 
allowance.
The flights went ahead.
Having considered the Visa card scheme rules, I dont think its likely that, had NBS pursued 
the chargeback further, it would have been successful. This is because K provided the flight 
tickets it had been paid for, sending them (or a link to them) to the details provided at the 
time of booking. Ms M may not have got on the flights, but they were available for her to use. 
I think NBSs decision not to pursue the chargeback further in light of this was a reasonable 
one.
I note Ms M did later say to NBS that the payment was fraudulent. She does not appear to 
have developed this argument further. Theres been no suggestion, for example, that she did 
not authorise the payment to K. On the face of it, I think its likely that Ms M meant that she 
considered it fraudulent not to have received the flights shed paid for. As Ive explained 
above however, I think the flights were made available to Ms M, via Mr G who made the 
booking.Our investigator did invite Ms M to provide further information (for example about Mr Gs 
involvement in the transaction), but she has not provided any more comments other than to 
repeat that she did not get the flights.
Ultimately, I see no reason why NBS should refund the money Ms M paid to K on her debit 
card.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman