DRN-2975327
The complaint
Mr G complains that loans that were made to him by Barclays Bank UK PLC were 
unaffordable for him and that the loans shouldnt have been made to him.
What happened
Mr G entered into six loans with Barclays between 2001 and 2007 which he used for share 
dealing. He complained to Barclays in 2019 that the loans had been mis-sold to him and 
were unaffordable for him. It said that due to the time that had lapsed his complaint was 
time-barred. 
Mr G then complained to this service and an ombudsman decided that Mr G had complained 
in time because he complained within three years of becoming aware, or when he ought 
reasonably to have become aware, of his cause to complain. He thought that this service 
was able to look at his complaint so an investigator considered his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. Barclays was 
unable to provide details of the affordability or credit checks that were carried out at the 
times the loans were agreed or any point of sale literature due to the time that had passed 
since then but our investigator considered the information that Barclays was able to provide 
and set out his finding on each of the six loans. He said that hed been unable to consider 
any information that showed that Barclays had failed to perform reasonable and 
proportionate checks at the times that Mr G had made the loan applications.
Mr G has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the 
loans had payment protection insurance which was deemed to have been mis-sold for which 
he received compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mr G took out six loans with Barclays between 2001 and 2007, the last of which was 
closed in 2007;
due to the time that has passed since the loans were made to Mr G, it has been 
unable to provide details of the affordability or credit checks that were carried out at 
the time or any point of sale literature  and I dont consider that to be unfair or 
unreasonable;
it says that it has assessed the affordability of the loans retrospectively by looking at 
Mr Gs income and expenditure for October and November 2002 from his bank 
statements when his monthly income was £3,349.56 and £3,499.17 so would have 
been sufficient to cover his expenditure and the loan repayments;
it says that theres no indication of financial hardship, none of the loans fell into 
arrears and the last of the loans was repaid in 2007;
our investigator considered the loan agreements and other information that Barclays 
was able to provide and income and expenditure information from Mr Gs bank 
statements  and he concluded that it was reasonable to assume that the loans 
would most likely have been affordable for Mr G;
Mr G says that he was young when the loans were made to him and that they were 
for share dealing  but Im not persuaded that Barclays shouldnt have made the 
loans to him because of his age and intended use of the money from the loans;
Mr G also says that the loans included payment protection insurance which was mis-
sold to him and for which hes received compensation  but this complaint isnt about 
the payment protection insurance, its about the lending decisions that were made by 
Barclays;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Barclays didnt properly 
check that the loans were affordable for Mr G at the time that they were made to him 
or to show that the loans were unaffordable for him at that time;
nor am I persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that it was irresponsible for 
Barclays to have made the loans to him or that it shouldnt have done so;
I sympathise with Mr G for the losses that he incurred from his share dealing and for 
the financial difficulties that hes described, but Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that Barclays has acted incorrectly in these circumstances; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Barclays to refund to 
Mr G any of the interest that hes paid on the loans, to pay him any other 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman