DRN-4104893
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC gave her unsuitable investment advice.
This complaint is brought on behalf of Mrs W by a claims management company but to 
keep things simple, Ill refer to Mrs W throughout, as the complainant.
What happened
Mrs W was provided with investment advice from a representative from Lloyds in 
November 2005 and then again in May 2006. The adviser conducted an interview on 
both occasions and recorded down with Mrs W different aspects of her financial 
circumstances. Lloyds noted that Mrs W was looking at ways to make a better return on 
her savings.
In 2005, acting on the advisers recommendation, Mrs W agreed to invest £20,000 into a 
plan where the proceeds would be invested. This was called a Guaranteed Investment 
Bond (GIB).
In 2006, Mrs W met with Lloyds again and this time following the advisers recommendation, 
she invested £4,000 in a Managed Income Portfolio Fund within an ISA.
The adviser had noted down on both occasions that Mrs W wanted to take a cautious 
approach to taking on risk with her money. He recommended the GIB in 2005 and 
managed fund through an ISA in 2006. Lloyds has told our service that these 
recommendations met Mrs Ws identified need and her cautious approach.
Mrs W through her representative, said the advice was not suitable for her as she had 
only recently lost her husband and had been diagnosed with cancer herself. She said 
the advice was not suitable as she wasnt looking to invest in the medium or long term at 
that time due to her health condition.  Lloyds replied to Mrs W and reiterated that it had 
provided advice that was suitable for her and met her need. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2023. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Mrs Ws complaint is that she was given advice that was unsuitable by Lloyds. Mrs W 
has said she had recently been diagnosed with cancer when she first met with an 
adviser from Lloyds in November 2005. 
Lloyds though had recorded on its fact find document from the meeting that Mrs W was in 
good health. So, I need to consider first what happened here when the two parties met and 
what, on the balance of probabilities was said or not said about Mrs Ws health condition.
Mrs W has recently said that she cannot recall being asked about her health in the meeting, 
but that if she had been asked, she would have told the adviser from Lloyds that she had 
only recently been diagnosed with cancer and was due to receive treatment for it. Mrs W has 
been detailed in the way she recalls the dates that she received her diagnosis, the treatment 
she received and when she latterly was told she was in remission. I can see that all this 
happened many years ago now, but I also consider that what Mrs W would have gone 
through during this period of her life would have been something she more likely than not 
would have remembered.
I am persuaded by Mrs Ws account of what happened. So, on balance, the likely 
explanation as to why it was recorded on the form that Mrs W was in good health, is that the 
adviser either didnt ask Mrs W about her health or didnt ask enough about this, and this 
resulted in an assessment that Mrs W was in good health when in all likelihood she was 
not.
Mrs W has been clear in stating she would have informed Lloyds of her medical condition if 
she had been asked. And if she had, I think its more likely than not the adviser from Lloyds 
wouldnt have recommended the GIB to her. This is due to the uncertainty that Mrs W would 
have felt with dealing with her medical condition. It would not have been suitable advice from 
Lloyds to recommend an investment that would have had a medium- or long-term maturity 
date to someone who was receiving treatment for a potentially life-threatening illness. So, I 
dont think the advice Lloyds gave to Mrs W was suitable for this reason. 
Around six months later, Mrs W met with Lloyds again and she was still receiving treatment 
for cancer. Again, I can see that the adviser had recorded down that she was in good health. 
I am minded to draw the same conclusion for this second meeting too. Mrs W again says 
she cannot recall being asked about her health in the meeting but would have said to the 
adviser that she was being treated for cancer, if she was asked. I am again persuaded by 
what Mrs W has said here. Lloyds, I dont think on balance, would have advised her to invest 
in a managed income portfolio fund via the ISA if it had been aware of Mrs Ws medical 
condition or that she was being treated for it at that time. Again, this is because the ISA was 
a medium to long term investment. So, I dont think its advice on this second occasion was 
suitable for Mrs W either.
On balance, based on what I've seen and been told, I dont currently think the advice 
provided to Mrs W in 2005 and 2006 was suitable for her needs at the time. I think this has 
more likely than not come about because Lloyds didnt carry out a thorough enough fact find 
on either occasion. So, because of this, I currently uphold Mrs Ws complaint and Lloyds 
now needs to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Both parties said they agreed with the findings in my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment on or that will 
change the outcome of this complaint. So, because of this, I dont see any reason to depart 
from my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint.  
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mrs W as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable advice.
I think Mrs W would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mrs W's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What should Lloyds do?
To compensate Mrs W fairly, Lloyds must:
Compare the performance of each of Mrs W's investments with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Lloyds should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Guarantee
d 
Investment 
BondNo longer 
existsAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Managed 
Income 
Portfolio 
FundNo longer 
existsAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Lloyds 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Lloyds totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. 
If any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left 
uninvested, they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs W wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs W's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs W would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. I direct Lloyds 
Bank PLC to put things right as I have described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman