DRN-3167895
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about his mortgage account with Pepper (UK) Limited (trading as
Engage Credit). He says he wasnt treated fairly during his period of financial difficulty.
What happened
In 2007 Mr B took a mortgage with a previous lender which Ill call A. In 2015 the mortgage
was transferred to lender B. As lender B is not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA), it appointed Engage to administer the account on its behalf. Engage is regulated by
the FCA.
Mr B says his health started to suffer from 2009 and he subsequently lost his job in 2012. As
a result, arrears started to accrue on his mortgage account. He says prior to this he always
maintained his payments.
Mr B complains that lender A didnt treat him fairly during his period of financial difficulty and
repossession action was wrongly taken. Mr B says lender A didnt consider any other
concessions such as capitalisation or a payment holiday but instead took legal action.
Repossession didnt go ahead, but Mr B also complains that the fees and charges added to
his account over the years were unfair and excessive - and could have been avoided. He
says this has had a lasting impact on his financial position.
Mr B complained to our service in January 2020. The complaint was passed to the correct
respondent (Engage) in July 2020.
Engage issued its final response letter in September 2020, in which it objected to our service
considering parts of this complaint.
Our investigator considered whether Mr B had complained to Engage within the set time
limits. Ultimately, he thought we couldnt consider Mr Bs complaint about the repossession
action and the events leading up to it, as it was brought too late.
Our investigator thought we could look into the fees and charges applied to the account
within six years of when the complaint was raised with our service which he had noted as
July 2020. He upheld this part of the complaint.
Mr B didnt agree that we could only consider part of his complaint and Engage didnt agree
that any of the fees and charges were unfairly applied to the account.
Because an agreement wasnt been reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued my decision on what this service can and cant look into - because that matter was
still in dispute. I said that:
1. This service doesnt have the power to look into Mr Bs complaint about the
repossession action in 2013 and the events in the lead up to it; and
2. This service can look into Mr Bs complaint about the fees and charges applied to the
account within six years of the complaint being brought to our service in January
2020.
Because the complaint was brought to our service sooner than originally noted, our
investigator considered whether any further fees and charges were wrongly applied to Mr Bs
account between January 2014 and July 2014. His opinion remained the same.
Because Engage didnt agree with our investigators initial findings, this matter was then 
passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision on 8 November 2021. In 
summary I found:
Aside from a £40 admin fee that Engage has already accepted it had wrongly 
charged and subsequently reversed, all other fees and charges between January 
2014 and January 2020 were applied fairly and in line with the mortgage terms. 
These were due to missed or late payments in breach of the suspended possession 
order (SPO) issued to Mr B in January 2014.
Each time Mr Bs arrears balance increased due to non-payment and/or a charge 
being applied, more interest was charged on his account than would otherwise have 
been the case. During the six years leading up to the complaint Mr B was charged on 
average £15 in additional interest each month which seems reasonable in 
comparison to the arrears balance during this period. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
the additional interest hasnt been charged correctly in line with the mortgage 
conditions.
The legal fee of £166.80 on 15 January 2014 was fairly applied. This fee made up 
part of the estimated costs set out in the pre-litigation letter sent to Mr B. I dont think 
full legal fees were unreasonable, as in this case, litigation extended all the way to a 
court hearing and the overall charges were proportionate to the legal work involved.
In the absence of information and evidence about any further litigation proceedings in 
2016, its unclear why Mr B was charged £254 in legal fees in July 2016. 
I asked Engage to provide:
Evidence justifying the legal expenses it incurred in 2016; and
Evidence that the admin fee of £40 has been reversed and additional interest has 
been readjusted accordingly;
In the absence of this information I proposed that the complaint should be upheld, and the 
£254 legal fee charged in July 2016 should be reversed and any additional interest should 
be readjusted accordingly.
Engage responded to my provisional decision, providing the information I asked for. I wrote 
to Mr B and Engage on 23 November 2021 explaining that based on the new evidence 
provided, I was minded to not uphold the complaint. An extract of my further provisional 
findings is below.
Youll recall that in the absence of Engage being able to justify the legal expenses it 
incurred in 2016, I proposed to uphold part of your complaint, by directing Engage to reverse 
the £254 legal fee charged in July 2016.
Engage has responded to my provisional decision, providing the information I asked for to support charging you a legal fee in 2016. Based on the new evidence provided Im satisfied 
this fee has been applied fairly. As Ill explain.
In light of your payment history (as set out in my provisional decision) and due to the fact 
that by Mid 2016 your arrears had almost doubled in amount since the SPO was granted in 
2014, Engage initiated possession proceedings. In May 2016 you were sent a letter advising 
you of the SPO breach/warrant warning.
Repossession is a legitimate step for lenders to take as a last resort where the current 
payment situation is deemed unsustainable. In your case Engage sought possession on the 
basis that your mortgage was proving unaffordable and you confirmed you had no means to 
make your contractual monthly payments and reduce the arrears for the foreseeable. So, in 
light of everything, I dont think it was unreasonable to seek possession on the basis that 
doing so would help reduce the impact of further arrears and associated interest and 
costs building up.
In 1 June 2016 Engage told you that it would only accept full settlement of the arrears 
balance or possession would be enforced. Engage tried to contact you thereafter but you 
didnt make further contact until 11 July 2016. You were informed the warrant had been 
enforced due to lack of contact and non-payment since the letter before warrant was sent in 
May 2016. Engage subsequently agreed to you making a lump sum payment towards the 
arrears, rather than full settlement, to withdraw the warrant. Your payment of £4,555 was 
received on 14 July 2016 and the warrant was withdrawn.
I think in the circumstances Engage allowed sufficient time before enforcing the warrant and 
it has provided invoices evidencing the direct legal cost incurred as a result.
I further think Engage acted positively and sympathetically by agreeing to withdraw the 
warrant as a result of the lump sum payment you were able to make, as opposed to full 
settlement of the arrears  that it initially asked for.
So, when considering everything, I dont find that enforcing legal action was unreasonable or 
that the fees unfairly applied in the circumstances.
I also asked Engage to confirm that the admin fee of £40 had been reversed and additional 
interest readjusted accordingly. Which it did.
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im now minded to not uphold this complaint. Ill look at any 
more comments and evidence that I get by 7 December 2021. But unless the information 
changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along these lines.
Mr B has not responded to my provisional findings to date. Engage has not provided any 
further comments in response to my most recent communication.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that neither party has made any further arguments, or provided any further evidence, 
since I issued my latest provisional decision. Ive carefully considered again what I said.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my further provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman