DRN-2796196
The complaint
Mr B complains about what happened to his account with HSBC UK Bank plc after he tried 
to switch to another bank, and close this account as part of that process.
  
What happened
Mr B said he moved his account from HSBC to a different bank. He said this was supposed
to be a hassle-free switch, but a payment wasnt transferred over. So that left Mr Bs HSBC
account in overdraft, when it shouldve been closed. Mr B said hed tried to pay off this
overdraft a number of times already, and it kept bouncing back. And he said HSBC was now
saying he owed 79p on his credit card, but he always paid that in full each month, so it
should never have been left in debt.
Mr B said hed spoken to HSBC many times, and each time it said he had to pay it back, but
hed tried. HSBC had locked his account, so he had to go to the branch to unlock it, but the
money he paid in still bounced back. The bank he switched to said it couldnt help.
Mr B showed us attempts he had made to pay HSBC in May and June 2020.
HSBC said it had written to Mr B on 18 February 2020 to say it would switch his account and
close it. He had a small positive balance in his account then. HSBC said in its letter that Mr B
needed to be careful to be sure he had some money in his account on the date of the switch,
or it couldnt be closed.
HSBC wrote to Mr B again on 28 February, to say that the transfer had been done, but it
couldnt close his account because it was overdrawn by £140.35. HSBC said his arranged
overdraft had been removed and he was accruing interest on this, so it asked him to pay,
although in fact it only seems to have asked him for the same amount after this, so it seems
unlikely that he is accruing interest on this debt.
This letter set out how Mr B could make a payment. Importantly, it warned him not to just
transfer money to his old account, because it would be redirected into his new account.
The letters that HSBC sent to Mr B were going to his old address. HSBC said he hadnt
updated his address, although Mr B says he did.
Mr B complained, and HSBC wrote in early June. It repeated that it couldnt close the
account because it was in debt. It asked him to pay the debt off, although this letter didnt
repeat the way in which he could do that.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that HSBC had done
everything it was supposed to. There were other ways Mr B couldve paid. And hed only
tried to make his payments in May and June. So the account still couldnt have been closed
in February.
Mr B said that hed made sure his account was in credit before the switch, and any
payments shouldve come out of his new account elsewhere. Mr B also said that as part of
the switch he was charged twice for each of his direct debits, but hed managed to get that
refunded. Mr B said that if hed been contacted sooner, he couldve done something about it.
But he said that his wages were paid into the new account, as part of the switch, and his bills
were still taken out of the old account.
Mr B said he really wanted to be able to pay this debt off, so whether we upheld his
complaint or not, he needed to know how to actually get the money to his old account. And
because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
Id like to set out my understanding of the facts. Ive sought more information from 
both sides, and we now know a little more about what went wrong in this case.
HSBC wrote to Mr B on 18 February. It said that when Mr Bs account closed, it had 
to be in credit, unless hed arranged to move an overdraft to his new bank.
I think its worth noting that HSBC has always written to Mr Bs old address, although 
this didnt match with the address on the transfer form he gave them. HSBC says it 
has no record of Mr B contacting it to change his address.
I dont think its HSBCs fault that Mr B didnt get its letters. HSBC doesnt seem to 
have had any confirmation directly from Mr B of his new address. Mr B had moved 
some months before the transfer, so I think he ought to have realised this before he 
switched accounts.
I also think its worth noting that HSBC doesnt carry the primary responsibility for the 
switch. Mr Bs new bank is responsible for making sure things go smoothly. So I dont 
think its HSBCs responsibility to make sure, for example, that payments are only 
taken once, or that Mr Bs salary payment moves to his new account at the same 
time as his bills. However, I dont think thats been key to what has gone wrong here. 
Ill explain why I think that.
Mr Bs new bank account was opened on 25 February. But his account wasnt 
switched on that day, it was switched a couple of days later.
It looks, from the statements Ive seen for February, as if Mr B was running down his 
HSBC account. He was maintaining a small positive balance.
On 25 February, three large direct debts were taken out of Mr Bs account. But these 
direct debit payments were reversed, so Mr Bs account was still in credit.
Then, also on 25 February, Mr B made an online card payment, for a gambling 
transaction, for £20. His account only had a few pounds in, so this payment left his 
account overdrawn.
I know Mr B said that his direct debits were duplicated, and thats what made him 
overdrawn.
But his statements show that even after those direct debits were refunded, he was 
still in debt, because of this card transaction.
So I dont think that HSBC is responsible for Mr Bs account being in debit when it 
tried to switch his account to his new bank.HSBC wrote to him on 28 February to say the account hadnt closed. It included 
details of how to pay off the money he owed. That letter explained that, because Mr 
Bs account had switched, he couldnt just pay money in using the old account 
details. Any money paid there would automatically transfer to his new, switched 
account.
We know Mr B didnt get this letter. But I think its important to stress that HSBC 
knew Mr B couldnt just pay money into his account to clear his debt. That wouldnt 
work.
Mr B complained in early June. Its clear from the call he made that he knew HSBC 
had been trying to contact him for some time. Mr B said hed been ignoring this 
because he thought all his accounts with HSBC had been shut down, when he 
moved to another bank.
HSBC told Mr B on that call, that bills which cleared on 24 and 26 February pushed 
him into debit. But thats not what his statements show. Mr B was in credit after the 
first of these payments. And he was already in debit by the time the second of these 
payments cleared.
On this call, HSBC gave Mr B payment advice over the phone. That didnt work. The 
advice HSBC gave over the phone was to pay direct into his account, which HSBCs 
letter of 28 February 2020 said wouldnt work.
HSBC then responded to Mr Bs complaint by email. The email said that he could pay 
into his account by removing the block and transferring money into his old account. 
Mr B tried this, but the money still bounced back to his new account.
I think that HSBC shouldve been clear that this wouldnt work, and Mr B should not 
have been given, repeatedly, incorrect advice on how to pay off his debt.
The same letter told Mr B that his credit card had a debit balance of a few pence. 
And his ISA had a very small positive balance, only a few pence, so HSBC wanted to 
know if he wanted to transfer this into his current account and close the ISA.
Mr B says hes made a number of attempts to clear his debt, but none of them have 
worked. It doesnt seem, from what Mr B has told us, as if any of these attempts have 
been through the method that HSBC set out for Mr B in its letter of 28 February. 
Thats perhaps not surprising, as Mr B didnt get that letter, and, although Mr B has 
contacted HSBC a number of times, it doesnt seem to have repeated this advice for 
him. Instead, it has repeatedly told him to make payment in a way that doesnt work.
I dont think its HSBCs fault that Mr Bs account was in debit when it was due to 
transfer. It looks like this was as a result of transactions Mr B made, as Ive set out 
above. So I dont think its HSBCs fault that Mr B then had a debt to HSBC.
We know that HSBC did try to contact Mr B about this. Although it didnt have the 
right address for him, when Mr B rang in early June he referred to HSBCs attempts 
to contact him, so he knew it had been trying to get in touch. So I dont think that its 
HSBCs fault that this debt persisted until early June.
But from then I can see that Mr B has repeatedly been given the wrong advice about 
how to pay this debt. Hes been given advice that HSBC knew wouldnt work. So I 
think its HSBCs fault that Mr Bs account has remained in debt since June 2020.I havent seen anything to suggest that this has affected Mr Bs credit file. But, just in 
case, if HSBC has recorded negative markers on Mr Bs credit file from June 2020 
onwards, it must remove those now, and show his current account and credit card as 
closed and paid in full on 2 June 2020.
I think HSBC should also pay Mr B some compensation for what has gone wrong 
since June 2020. This matter shouldve been dealt with on the call he made to HSBC 
then, and its because of HSBCs incorrect advice that its only being resolved now.
If Mr B has now managed to pay this debt, then HSBC should refund to Mr B any 
interest he was charged for his debt after 2 June 2020, and pay him £140.
If Mr B hasnt yet managed to pay this debt, then HSBC should clear the debts on Mr 
Bs credit card and current accounts, that will stand in the place of compensation in 
this case.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr B said he would reluctantly accept my decision. HSBC wrote to object.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC shared with us a considerable amount of further evidence, that it had not previously 
sent to us. And it sought to argue, on the basis of this new evidence, that I had made 
numerous factually incorrect findings.
It appears to me from what HSBC has said, that it hasnt quite understood my decision. So 
Id like to summarise briefly before I look at the points HSBC made. 
I dont think its HSBCs fault the transfer failed. Mr B wouldve been overdrawn even 
without the payments he says were duplicated, because he was still using his card.
I dont think its HSBCs fault that Mr B then remained overdrawn until early June. It 
sent him correct advice on how to clear his debt, which he didnt get because he 
hadnt updated his address with HSBC. And he was ignoring attempts by HSBC to 
contact him. 
I do think its HSBCs fault that Mr B was overdrawn after 2 June. It gave him wrong 
advice on how to clear his debt, which he tried, but the payment failed.
Ill now look at the comments HSBC made. 
HSBC wanted to draw attention to what Id said about the order of payments out of Mr Bs 
account. I listed payments in the order that they appear on his statement. But HSBC said 
that the payment Id referred to as being made on 25 February was made on 24 February. It 
has now sent us its internal payment clearance screens, which show this payment was 
captured by HSBCs system on 24 February, although it shows on Mr Bs statement for 25 
February.
HSBC then said Mr B also made another payment on 24 February, for £3.89, to a popular e-
money provider. And it said that a recurring debit card transaction went through on 25 
February, which was cancelled after this payment was made.HSBC appears to be defending what its call handler said, about the third of these payments 
being the one that pushed Mr B in overdraft. But its not the order of these payments that 
matters. 
What matters, I think, is whether Mr B was in overdraft when his account switched, just 
because of duplicated payments, or whether hed have been overdrawn anyway, because of 
his own use of his card. 
Thats important, because Mr B has argued that the reason he was in overdraft on the 
transfer day was because a number of payments on his account were duplicated. And if that 
had been right, then I wouldve needed to decide whether this was HSBCs fault. But it isnt 
right. So what I was seeking to set out for Mr B, was that even after the payments he queried 
had all been reversed, his account was still overdrawn. Even if no mistake had been made 
over those, the account wouldnt have switched, just because Mr B had been using his card.
And that, in turn, means its not HSBCs fault the account didnt switch.
HSBC felt Id made no mention of Mr B not cooperating with its attempts to contact Mr B, 
And it said it said it was being held accountable for Mr B not updating his address.
HSBC said my provisional decision made no mention of a note on Mr Bs file of a call on 8 
June, after it had sent out the final response on his complaint. That note said Mr B had rung 
to say he kept being pushed into overdraft because there was a recurring transaction coming 
out of his account, and he wanted to cancel it. HSBC said then that it had an outstanding 
security concern on his account since January, so it couldnt discuss his account. Mr B 
would need to go into branch, before HSBC could discuss the account with him. 
I hadnt mentioned this because HSBC doesnt appear to have told us about it before now. I 
note that a refusal to discuss the account then doesnt appear to be consistent with the call 
Mr B had only a few days earlier. But again, I dont think this changes the outcome of this 
case. 
Ive explained that HSBC isnt responsible for the transfer failing, and Mr Bs account not 
closing in February. 
And then HSBC made efforts to get in touch with Mr B. I think HSBC may have misread my 
provisional decision. I think I was clear that it wasnt HSBCs fault that Mr B didnt receive its 
letter of 28 February, which contained correct advice on how to pay off his debt. And I also 
noted that he wasnt responding to HSBCs attempts to contact him, up until early June. 
Then he did get in touch, and I think HSBC is then responsible for the debt persisting, 
because it gave Mr B wrong advice on how to pay it off.
HSBC also took issue with what Id said about payment attempts by Mr B. It said Id 
summarised its email advice to Mr B wrongly. And on the call Mr B had, where he said hed 
tried to make a payment but it bounced, the representative removed the block to allow the 
payment to go through. HSBC didnt believe that these payment attempts were made, or that 
Mr B had enough money in his account for the payments to clear.
HSBC seems to have overlooked the point I was making here, which is that when it wrote to 
Mr B immediately after his account switched, it told him that he couldnt just pay money into 
his account, using his account details, because that money would then be automatically 
transferred into his new, switched account with a different bank. Then it told him he could 
pay directly into that account, and subsequently, it blames him for these payments failing. It seemed unlikely that both of these contradicting statements by HSBC were right. I think its 
reasonable to assume that Mr B either can pay directly into his old account, or he cant. I 
said in my provisional decision that I thought the first statement was right. And I also note 
that the Switch Guarantee, which HSBC sent to our service as part of its reply, also confirms 
that any payments accidentally made to your old account [will] be automatically redirected 
to your new account.
So I still think HSBCs first advice, given in February, was right, and Mr B couldnt just 
transfer money into his account. 
The advice HSBC gave in June was wrong. And thats why Mr Bs debt persisted past June.
And for the avoidance of doubt, I have seen screenshots from Mr Bs banking app which 
show attempts to transfer the exact amount which HSBC told him he needed to pay, both 
before and after he spoke to HSBC in early June. So I think it is most likely that Mr B did 
make genuine efforts to pay off his debt with HSBC. I have also concluded that those efforts 
failed, for exactly the reasons that HSBC had explained in its earlier letter of 28 February 
and which is set out in the Switch Guarantee  payments into a switched account are 
automatically routed to the new bank.
So I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc must 
- remove any negative markers it may have placed on Mr Bs credit file from June
2020 onwards, and show his current account and credit card as closed and paid in
full on 2 June 2020.
- If Mr B has now managed to pay this debt, then refund to Mr B any interest he was
charged for his debt after 2 June 2020, and pay him £140.
- If Mr B hasnt yet managed to pay this debt, then clear the debts he has on his 
credit card and current accounts, and that will stand in the place of compensation in 
this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman