DRN-3626300
The complaint
Mr W complains that he should have started receiving his pension on 1 April 2021 but delays 
by the Prudential Assurance Company Limited meant payments didnt start until later.
What happened
In 1994 Mr W transferred his pension to a Section 32 pension plan administered by 
Prudential. The normal retirement date (NRD) under the section 32 plan was 1 April 2020, 
his 65th birthday. 
In 2019, Mr W looked into the possibility of accessing cash locked up within his pension. In 
November 2019, Prudential wrote to Mr W to confirm it had provided information to a 
financial adviser to enable them to investigate the possibility of transferring his pension. 
Prudential also wrote to the financial adviser, to let them know they were now allowed to 
provide them with information on Mr Ws policy, and provided information including details of 
the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP). 
The letter mentioned that Prudential had outsourced the provision of annuities to another 
provider, but said an annuity quote could only be provided within 90 days of the NRD. And 
the letter explained that for a transfer to be permitted, the transfer value had to be at least 
equal to the cash equivalent of the GMP on the date of the claim. Mr W told our investigator 
the adviser established that the transfer wasnt possible because the value didnt meet this 
requirement. No further services were provided by that adviser.
Prudential sent a wake up pack to Mr W in November 2019 with details of his pension 
benefits, including his GMP entitlement. The letter provided a telephone number he could 
call if he needed further information. It also recommended he should seek advice, either 
from his own adviser or one of those available through Prudential.
Prudential wrote to Mr W again on 19 February 2020, six weeks before his NRD. The letter 
said it was time to make a decision about the pension plan and recommended that he speak 
to his financial adviser if he had one. It also provided a telephone number for Prudentials 
team of consultants who could provide information about the various options.
The letter said the figures were based on the assumption Mr W wasnt married. Mr W called 
Prudential on 25 February 2020, to say he was married. Mr W had a face to face meeting 
with an adviser from another firm of independent financial advisers (IFA) the same day. He 
gave Prudential permission to share information with that firm.
Prudential sent information to Mr Ws IFA in two letters dated 3 March. One letter dealt with
information about the fund where the pension was invested. The other provided information 
about Mr Ws GMP benefits and said a transfer from the plan wasnt permitted because the 
cost of providing the GMP benefits exceeded the transfer value.
The letter said that as Mr W's retirement date was 1 April  it is not possible for us to 
supply an illustration on the basis you requested. Please contact us if you require retirement 
details.
In its final response to Mr Ws complaint Prudential confirmed, we made you aware that we 
could not supply the quotation you had requested until 1 April 2020 We asked you to contact 
us after that date so this could be calculated.
Mr Ws IFA emailed Prudential on 1 April 2020 requesting a retirement options pack and the 
forms to claim the pension but didnt receive a reply. They sent further emails on 17 and 21 
April respectively, again without reply.
Prudentials notes record a phone call from the IFA on 23 April 2020. The notes say the 
caller had requested an options pack but had been told it had already been issued. The 
notes for 24 April show Prudential recognised it was possible it was a Client Information 
Pack (CIP) that was being requested. Prudential asked the IFA to clarify which option was 
required.
In reply, the IFA asked for someone from Prudential to contact them directly and for both 
packs to be issued by email. Prudential made several attempts to contact the IFA and 
eventually spoke to them on 18 May. The CIP was issued the same day.
The CIP was a 2-page letter explaining how an annuity quotation could be obtained by 
calling the provider who would be paying the pension on Prudentials behalf, saying the 
provider will be able to provide a quote from 90 days before the date your client wishes to 
take the benefit. 
The funds were forwarded to the provider on 18 June 2020 and the annuity was put in place 
in late July.
Mr W complained about the delays  he said he should have started receiving his annuity 
from 1 April, and wanted compensation for lost income. Prudential didnt uphold his 
complaint but when he referred it to this service our investigator thought there had been 
some delay by Prudential. 
The investigator initially said Prudential should calculate how much additional income Mr W 
would have received if the annuity had a start date of 1 April 2020, and pay compensation of 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr W by the delays. After considering 
further information from Prudential, the investigator concluded that the delays were not 
entirely caused by Prudential. He still thought the pension should have been put into 
payment earlier but said the calculation should be taken from 30 April.
Prudential accepted the investigators view and said it would liaise with the provider to carry 
out a calculation of what annuity Mr W would have received if it had started on 30 April 2020. 
It also agreed to pay compensation of £250. 
Prudential later wrote to Mr W setting out the calculation and making an offer to pay 
compensation of £1,090.23 (£840.23 for loss of income and £250 for distress and 
inconvenience).
Mr W didnt accept the offer. He maintains that the pension should have been paid from 1 
April and the loss should be calculated from that date. He would also like Prudential to pay 
£500 for the fees he incurred with the IFA.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me to decideWhat Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id expect Prudential to send clear information to Mr W as he approached his retirement, with 
information about the process and any steps he needed to take; and to deal with any 
correspondence from him or his financial adviser in a reasonable time, avoiding any 
unnecessary delay.
Prudential sent a four month wake up pack in November 2019, giving information to Mr W 
about what would happen. It followed this up with a six week reminder pack in February 
2020. That letter said:
 
 you have an important date coming up and youll need to think about what you want to 
do with your pension by then. The date is only a few weeks away, so we're writing to you to 
give you more information about your options and let you know where to find help..
So Im satisfied Prudential sent the information it should have sent at an appropriate time. 
Mr Ws financial adviser sent an email in February asking for information about the pension. 
That email was detailed and requested a lot of information about the pension, including a 
request for an illustration of benefits with projected fund values, based on different growth 
rates. 
It wasnt a request for an annuity quote  the request was for fund values. Thats why 
Prudential said it couldnt be provided; it could not provide an illustration of fund values on 
that basis so close to retirement date, as such illustrations need to be for at least 12 months.
The first time a request for benefits was made was on 1 April. As that was the date Mr Ws 
pension was due to start, it wouldnt have been possible to make all the arrangements and 
put his pension in place on that date. For that reason, I dont think the failure to start paying 
Mr Ws pension on 1 April was due to avoidable delays by Prudential.
But as correct information was requested on 1 April 2020, it should have been dealt with 
then. There was some delay after that. Prudential should have issued the information pack 
Mr Ws advisers needed. When Prudential later established this was what was needed  on 
18 May  the pack was issued the same day. After the paperwork was returned, the claim 
was backdated to 15 June, 20 working days later.
If Prudential had issued the pack on 1 April 2020 its likely the paperwork would have been 
dealt with in 20 working days  so by 30 April. So if Mr W suffered a loss because the 
annuity wasnt paid from 30 April its right that he should be compensated for that. 
Prudential agreed to calculate what would have happened if the annuity had been paid from 
30 April. As it doesnt pay the annuity itself, it contacted the annuity provider and asked them 
what annuity would have been paid on 30 April 2020, and then made an offer of 
compensation (£840.23) based on that calculation. Im satisfied thats a fair offer to reflect 
the loss caused by the delay.
Mr W had thought he would start receiving his pension from 1 April and was naturally upset 
when that didnt happen. Although the delay wasnt entirely due to Prudentials actions it was 
partly responsible. It has agreed to pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr W. Taking into account the circumstances and the time involved I think thats a fair 
amount.Mr W has also asked for compensation to cover the fee for his IFA. He decided to instruct 
the IFA and agreed to pay their fees. Those fees were for the advice given to him and would 
have been incurred regardless of any delay. So this isnt a loss he has suffered as a result of 
anything Prudential has done. In the circumstances I dont think any payment should be 
made for this. 
My final decision
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £1,090.23 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that the Prudential Assurance Company Limited should pay £1,090.23.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman