DRN-3330647
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money hes lost to a scam.
What happened
Mr B saw an advert for a laptop computer on a social media online marketplace. On 
28 June 2020, Mr B made contact with the seller and the following day made a payment of 
£670 for what he thought was the purchase of the laptop computer. Unfortunately, his money 
was taken and the laptop computer he thought he was buying was never sent to him.
 
Monzo declined Mr Bs claim for a refund because it felt that Mr B didnt take enough steps 
to check who he was paying. It said it felt he had placed his account at risk and didnt take 
reasonable steps to keep his details safe.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, he considered that Monzo did not give an effective 
warning and that Mr B had a reasonable basis for believing he was making a genuine 
payment.
Monzo didnt agree. It said the warning was it gave was effective and Mr B did not have a 
reasonable basis for belief. 
As the case could not be resolved informally, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute 
here that Mr B authorised the payment. 
However, where a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though they authorised the payment. When thinking about what is fair and reasonable 
in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo should have reimbursed Mr B in line with the 
provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to adhere to and whether it ought to have done 
more to protect Mr B from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr B was tricked into making the payment. He thought he would 
receive a laptop in exchange for his money and this wasnt the case. But this isnt enough, in 
itself, for Mr B to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a 
level of care on Mr B too.
The CRM Code
Monzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. 
It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one 
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Those exceptions are: 
Mr B ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
Mr B made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was 
the person he was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; 
and/or the person or business with whom Mr B transacted was legitimate. 
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I am not persuaded the concerns Monzo has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transaction Mr B was making are enough to support its 
position that he failed to meet his requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the 
payment he made. It follows that I do not think Monzo has been able to establish that it may 
choose not to reimburse Mr B under the terms of the CRM Code. 
Having thought about what both sides have said and provided, I consider Mr B had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payment he was making was for a genuine laptop and that 
the person he was transacting with was a legitimate seller. In reaching that conclusion, I 
have thought carefully about what it is realistic to have expected Mr B to do when he was 
paying the sum of £670.
Did Mr B have a reasonable basis for belief? 
I think Mr B took enough care with a relatively modest payment of £670 to say that he had a 
reasonable basis for believing he was buying a laptop from a genuine seller. I say this 
because:
Mr B says he checked the social media profile for the seller and saw numerous 
photos of the seller and the profile looked to go back sometime. This persuaded him 
that he was dealing with a legitimate person.
During the exchange in messages, the seller gave Mr B his address explaining it was 
for your security. Mr B says he discovered this address led to a business owned by 
relatives with the same name as the seller; thus, reassuring him further of the 
legitimacy of the person and the sale.
Mr B also says he checked prices for similar items through the same social media 
marketplace and on other online marketplaces. The price he was quoted was similar 
and - in my view - was a fair reflection of the market value for a second-hand laptop 
like this at that time.
Mr B also received a green confirmation of payee match when entering the account 
holders name. This further reassured him that he was dealing with a genuine seller. 
When he initially entered the sellers name, he received a maybe match and I can see from the messages Mr B went back to the seller for confirmation of his name 
before trying again. Mr B quickly realised he had made a mistake when entering the 
name as confirmed in the messages with the seller. When he re-entered the name, 
he received a full name match and he had no reason to believe he wasnt dealing 
with a genuine person.
I have considered Monzos arguments carefully, but I dont find them persuasive. I am not 
persuaded Mr B needed to make extensive enquiries in the particular circumstances of this 
case. Also Mr B had never purchased from this website before and so had no previous 
experience or knowledge about its operation. Mr B made the payment via bank transfer but 
the seller seemed open to accept payment by PayPal as well. Ive thought carefully about 
the sum Mr B paid and how the seller communicated with him and I think Mr Bs actions and 
assessment of the situation were appropriate and proportionate to the payment of £670.
Should Monzo have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Mr B?
Ive thought about whether Monzo did enough to protect Mr B from becoming a victim of a 
scam. The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, 
they should provide effective warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. 
I am also mindful that when Mr B made this payment, Monzo should fairly and reasonably 
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
In this case, Mr B was making a relatively modest payment. I dont think the amount of this 
payment would have made it stand out enough for Monzo to have been concerned that Mr B 
might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud at the time that he made it. The payment 
was relatively low in value. So, I dont think Monzo should have identified an APP scam risk 
in the payment journey or that it needed to provide Mr B with an effective warning. 
That said, Monzo has said a high friction warning for goods and services was shown. 
Although I should add that Mr B says he doesnt recall seeing a warning at all at the time. 
And I note there are discrepancies between the time of the transaction (20.38) and the time 
of the warning - according to the audit trail Monzo has provided (09.38). However, Ive still 
considered whether seeing the warning at the time the payment was made should have 
entered Mr Bs thought processes.
Looking at the warning Monzo says was provided, I can see it attempts to prevent purchase 
scams, but I dont think the warning makes the risk of falling victim to this particular type of 
purchase scam obvious. The warning is bright red and says Stop, dont pay. Its very likely 
this is a scam. But then it simply advises that bank transfers arranged online or over social 
media are at a higher risk of fraud and that bank transfers arent protected in the same 
way as card payments, It recommends to Pay by card if you can. But, it doesnt cover the 
common features of this type of goods scams or really bring to life what the type of scam 
Mr B fell victim to looks like. And it doesnt explain in sufficient detail what Mr B could have 
done to protect himself against this type of scam. Overall, Im not persuaded that a 
reasonable person in Mr Bs position would fully understand the scam risk from the warning 
Monzo gave. 
Taking account of all the circumstances here, which includes the warning messages Monzo 
says it gave, I dont think Mr Bs actions fell below the level of care expected of him in this situation. I think Monzo ought to have fully refunded Mr B at the time he reported the loss 
and so it should fairly and reasonably compensate him by refunding that loss now. 
Did Monzo do enough to recover Mr Bs funds?
In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for completeness, 
Ive thought about whether Monzo took reasonable steps to recover Mr Bs funds once it was 
made aware he was the victim of a scam. The scam payment was made on 29 June 2020 
and Mr B reported the scam to Monzo on 3 July 2020. Monzo contacted the receiving bank 
on 4 July 2020 (several hours after Mr B first contacted it) but no funds remained. The 
receiving bank confirmed that funds were removed from the account on 30 June 2020  the 
same day as they were received into the account. So even if there was a slight delay in 
Monzo contacting the receiving bank, I dont consider it would have made a difference as the 
funds had been removed a few days before Mr B first notified Monzo of the scam.
Im satisfied the bank processed Mr Bs payment correctly and it did all it could to help him 
once it knew what had happened. But, overall, the CRM Code explains that where a 
customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive explained, Im satisfied was the 
case here) they should be refunded all of the money that was lost. So, I think its fair that 
Monzo refunds the money Mr B lost, along with interest.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr B I instruct Monzo Bank Ltd to: 
 refund Mr Bs loss of £670
 pay 8% simple interest on the refund from the date his claim was declined to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman