DRN-3363526
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) unfairly recalled a Bounce Back Loan after initially approving it. 
Ms director, Mr S, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
M banked with NatWest and applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan of £12,000. 
NatWest initially approved the application and the funds were drawn down on 22 May 2020. 
But the bank later reversed its decision and recalled the loan. As the funds remained in M 
account, NatWest simply withdrew them on 27 July 2020 to settle the loan. 
The remaining account balance, of around £250, was subsequently released to M and the 
account was closed in February 2021.
When Mr S complained about the banks removal of the Bounce Back Loan, NatWest said 
that the loan should not have been granted and so it was correctly terminated. Mr S 
remained unhappy and asked us to look into what had happened. 
Our investigator didnt think that NatWest had done anything wrong. He said, in summary, 
that it had been reasonable for the bank to recall the Bounce Back Loan in the manner it did 
given the circumstances. And while noting that there had been a delay in releasing the funds 
that remained in Ms account after the loan was recalled, he didnt think this was down to an 
error on the banks part. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He thought that M had been eligible for the loan, 
so it had been unfair for NatWest to break the contract and recall it. He queried the basis of 
the banks view on Ms eligibility and its decision to close Ms bank account. And he said that 
the bank ought to have released the remaining account funds sooner, as he had provided it 
with the requisite funds release form. 
So with no resolution, Ms complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although the loan was initially approved and drawn down, NatWest was entitled  and 
expected  to continue to keep matters under review. This is in line with its anti-fraud 
obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and its wider legal and regulatory 
requirements. So I dont think it didnt anything wrong in conducting a review of Ms loan 
after entering into an agreement to provide it. 
Upon review, NatWest concluded that it shouldnt have approved Ms Bounce Back Loan 
application in the first place. Ive reviewed the basis on which it reached this decision, and I 
think it was reasonable. 
As the loan shouldnt have been given to M, I think it was reasonable for NatWest to take 
steps to recover it. The terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan allowed NatWest to 
terminate the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances. It was 
also entitled to use funds held in any of Ms accounts to repay any amounts the company 
owed to the bank. I think it was reasonable for NatWest to do this in the circumstances here. 
NatWest subsequently decided to close Ms account in light of the findings of its review. That 
was a decision it was entitled to make and it went on to close the account in line with the 
applicable terms and conditions  by giving M 60 days notice. So I dont think it did anything 
wrong in this respect either. 
I appreciate why Mr S wants to know the reasons for NatWests actions and that, without 
them, the outcome is hard to accept. But the bank isnt required to provide any more detail 
than it already has and I cant fairly require it to do so. All I can do is reassure Mr S that I 
have examined the basis on which NatWest made its decisions and am satisfied that it had 
reasonable grounds to take the steps that it did.
Mr S has made a number of points regarding the release of the account balance, although 
these appear to relate primarily to his personal account funds that are the subject of a 
separate complaint. There does appear to have been a delay in Mr S obtaining Ms closing 
account balance, but I dont think this was down to anything NatWest did wrong. Ive not 
seen that NatWest received Mr Ss instructions as to the release of the funds until January 
2021, but that these werent actioned as some information hadnt been provided. Mr S then 
obtained the funds soon after, by visiting a branch.
Looking at everything then, I dont think NatWest did anything wrong in how it recalled Ms 
Bounce Back Loan and closed its account. It follows that there is no basis on which I could 
fairly require the bank to take any action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman