DRN-3789741
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lime Capital Finance Limited has treated him unfairly in relation to a 
running account credit agreement. 
What happened
In December 2018, Mr A entered into a running account credit agreement with Lime Capital. 
The purpose of the agreement was to fund Mr As legal costs in relation to a divorce. The 
agreement was to be repaid from the proceeds of Mr As divorce settlement. Mr A was not 
expected to make any repayments towards the agreement until either two years had passed 
or his divorce proceedings had completed, whichever was sooner. Mr As solicitors provided 
a guarantee to cover the repayments under the agreement in the event that Mr A couldnt do 
so. Lime Capital agreed an initial credit limit of £15,000 which Mr As solicitors could draw 
down on, up to that limit, as and when it needed funds to cover costs for the legal 
proceedings. 
In April 2019, Mr A requested that the credit limit be increased to £35,000, which 
Lime Capital agreed to. In December 2019, he asked it to be increased to £40,000, which 
was also agreed to by Lime Capital.
In September 2020, Mr A complained to Lime Capital. He said that Lime Capital had failed to 
freeze interest and charges on the credit agreement despite him asking them to do so in 
March and December 2019. He said that the interest that was accruing was making his 
financial situation worse and it was doubtful whether the proceeds from the divorce 
settlement would be enough to clear the debt off in full. 
Lime Capital didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said that it had become aware that Mr A had 
received a portion of his divorce proceedings shortly after making his complaint but had not 
made payment towards the credit agreement, it requested Mr A to start repaying what he 
had borrowed. It didnt think it had acted unfairly in refusing Mr As request to freeze interest 
and charges in March and December 2019.
In March 2021, Mr A agreed a repayment plan with Lime Capital. As Mr A was going to be 
repaying the borrowing Lime Capital agreed to not charge any further interest or charges on 
the agreement from that date. Mr A paid a lump sum of £25,000 but made no further 
payments after that. This left a balance of just under £20,000 to pay. 
After Mr A referred his complaint to our service, Lime Capital notified us to say that it was no 
longer seeking repayment from Mr A. This was because Mr As solicitors as part of the 
guarantee were making payments of £1,000 per month towards the outstanding balance. It 
confirmed that no further interest was being applied. It said that Mr As solicitors were taking 
legal action against Mr A for non-payment.  
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Lime Capital had 
acted unfairly in not freezing interest and charges in March and December 2019. This was 
because at that stage Mr A wasnt being asked to make any repayments to the agreement 
as his divorce had not been finalised. He said that because Lime Capital were no longer 
pursuing Mr A for repayment under the agreement and that Mr A had repaid less than he 
had borrowed, he didnt think Lime Capital needed to do anything to put things right. 
Mr A didnt agree with our investigator. In summary, he said:
it was unreasonable for Lime Capital to ask him to repay the credit agreement in late 
2020 as his divorce proceedings had not fully concluded. He said he did receive a 
portion of funds in October 2020, but this wasnt enough to clear the outstanding 
amount. He said there were a number of issues still outstanding at that time before 
the legal case was complete.
Lime Capital acted unreasonably in applying interest to the agreement. He said that 
between August and September 2020 it shouldnt have asked him to repay the 
amount borrowed and no interest should have been applied because Lime Capital 
incorrectly assumed his divorce proceedings had completed. 
Although Lime Capital are no longer pursuing him for repayment, his solicitors are 
seeking reimbursement from him meaning he will still be required to pay everything 
Lime Capital charged him and the amounts owed are under the agreement are unfair 
and unreasonable.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says that Lime Capital unfairly charged interest under the credit agreement. The terms 
of the credit agreement set out that interest would apply and at what rate. So, Mr A had 
agreed when entering into the agreement that Lime Capital could charge interest on the 
amounts drawn down by his solicitors. As a starting point, I dont therefore think it was 
unreasonable for interest to be charged on what was borrowed. 
In March 2019, Mr A wrote to Lime Capital asking it to freeze interest because he said that 
he was in financial difficulty and could no longer afford to make his monthly repayments. 
This request was declined on the basis that Mr A wasnt required to make any monthly 
payments, so the interest that was being applied wasnt affecting his current outgoings. 
In December 2019, Mr A wrote a similar request to Lime Capital, who replied again to say 
that Mr A wasnt currently making any repayments. I dont think Lime Capital acted unfairly in 
declining these requests to freeze interest. I say this because Mr A wasnt making any 
repayments, so the interest charges werent impacting his current financial circumstances or 
outgoings. While I accept that this meant the total he would eventually have to repay to 
Lime Capital would be larger than if interest had been frozen, that would always have been 
the case and what hed contractually agreed to repay. 
As Mr A wasnt making any repayments at the time he asked for interest to be frozen and 
that nothing appeared to have materially changed in Mr As ability to repay the overall 
borrowing once his divorce had finalised, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lime Capital to 
decline his request for an interest freeze. Indeed, Mr A even said in one of his letters that his 
intention was to settle the debt in full once his divorce was finalised. So, I dont think Lime 
Capital was unreasonable in concluding his financial difficulty at the time wasnt going to 
impact his ability to pay once the legal case was complete.I note that despite Lime Capital being contractually entitled to continue charging interest on 
the amounts borrowed, it chose not to do so from March 2021 onwards. I think this was a 
reasonable concession to make given that it agreed a repayment plan with Mr A and it 
appeared that the amount borrowed would be repaid relatively quickly. However, Mr A only 
made one lump sum payment of £25,000 and didnt stick to the remainder of the agreed 
repayment plan. On this basis, I think Lime Capital could have chosen to start re-applying 
interest to the agreement, but it didnt. I dont therefore think it has treated Mr A unfairly 
overall. 
Mr A says Lime Capital acted unfairly in seeking repayment of the debt in 2020 before the 
divorce was finalised. However, even if I agreed that Lime Capital shouldnt have done this, 
I dont think thats caused him any material loss. I say this because Mr A still didnt make any 
payment until March 2021 and Lime Capital didnt apply any charges due to Mr As failure to 
pay any earlier. While it did continue to charge interest, this was in line with what was agreed 
in the credit agreement and Ive not seen any reason why it was unfair for Lime Capital to do 
so. 
Mr A has a separate dispute with his solicitors about the remaining amounts outstanding, 
that isnt something I have jurisdiction to consider. However, I havent seen anything to make 
me think that the amounts Lime Capital have said are owed under the credit agreement are 
unfair or unreasonable. Lime Capital has said it is no longer pursuing Mr A for repayment as 
it is seeking recovery from the guarantor instead. I dont think this is unreasonable given 
Mr A has refused to pay anything further to Lime Capital.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman