DRN-2789380
The complaint
Mrs M complains that the loans provided to her by PDL Finance Limited trading as 
Mr Lender were unaffordable. 
What happened
Mrs M was provided with five loans by Mr Lender between May 2011 and July 2015. The 
details are set out below.
Loan Amount Date Repaid
1 £250 09/05/2011 30/03/2012
2 £250 08/08/2012 31/10/2013
3 £650 31/10/2013 30/06/2014
4 £300 14/07/2014 30/04/2015
5 £800 08/07/2015 29/01/2016
Mrs M says that the loans were unaffordable. She says she only became aware of her cause 
for complaint shortly before raising her concerns with Mr Lender.
Mr Lender issued a final response letter dated 2 November 2020. It said that before the 
loans were provided checks were carried out in line with its responsible lending policies and 
the regulatory guidelines in place at the time. It says the checks included affordability and 
credit checks and having reviewed Mrs Ms account it didnt believe it had acted 
irresponsibly by providing the loans. While it believed that the loans provided were affordable 
for Mrs M, Mr Lender offered Mrs M a £25 voucher as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mrs M referred her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator partially upheld this complaint. He noted that loan 1 had been rolled over on 
10 occasions and that Mrs M had also rolled over loans 2 and 3 and that repayment plans 
were set up for these loans as well as loan 5. He didnt think there was enough evidence to 
say that the first loan shouldnt have been provided but didnt think the fifth rollover and 
subsequent rollovers of loan 1 and the subsequent loans 2 to 5 should have been provided. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It noted the gaps in the lending and 
thought that loans 2 and 5 should be considered as the start of new lending chains. It said 
the initial rollover on loan 3 was written into the agreement and so the number of rollovers on 
this loan was within the regulations. It also said its product changed at loan 4 meaning 
Mrs M could repay the capital amount borrowed over several months only incurring interest 
on the remaining capital. It said at the time loan 4 was assessed the highest repayment was 
less than 10% of her net income and Mrs M confirmed she wasnt paying towards any other 
creditors.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mrs M could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
The early loans in this case were provided before CONC. At that time the relevant guidance 
was provided by the Office of Fair trading (OFT) and this also set out the need to make a 
reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford to meet repayments in a 
sustainable manner. This refers to issues such as being able to the make the repayments 
without undue difficulties throughout the life of the agreement and without having to realise 
security or assets. It then further sets out that without undue difficulty means without having 
to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
Before the first loan was provided information about Mrs Ms income was gathered and 
Mr Lender has said that an employment verification took place. A credit check was also undertaken. Mrs Ms monthly income was recorded as £1,689. Loan 1 was for £250 with 
£312.50 repayable at the end of the month. As this was the first loan provided to Mrs M and 
noting the repayment amount compared to Mrs Ms declared income, I find the checks 
carried out at this time were proportionate. As these didnt raise concerns about the 
affordability of the loan, I do not find I have enough evidence to say this loan shouldnt have 
been provided.
Loan 1 was due to be repaid on 31 May 2011. Mrs M didnt repay the loan at that time but 
instead rolled over the loan. A single rollover of a loan wouldnt necessarily raise concerns 
as it may suggest a small amount of extra time was needed before repayment could take 
place. At the time this loan was provided there wasnt a limit on the number of rollovers that 
could be given but it was said by the OFT in 2010 that roll over loans shouldnt be provided if 
they are unsustainable or otherwise harmful. In this case, Mrs M had 10 rollovers on her first 
loan. I think this shows that Mrs M was struggling to manage her money and I think that 
Mr Lender should have been reasonably aware of this by the time the fifth rollover was 
provided. By this time, Mrs M hadnt paid any of the capital she borrowed and instead of 
having a loan outstanding for less than a month had now had the loan outstanding for over 
four months. Given this I agree with our adjudicator that the fifth and subsequent rollovers on 
this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mrs M repaid loan 1 in March 2012, over 10 months after she had taken it out. There was 
then a break in her borrowing of just over four months. I note the comments Mr Lender has 
made about this gap but given Mrs M had previously had her loan outstanding for over 10 
months I do not find that this gap was enough for Mr Lender to be able to say that Mrs Ms 
financial circumstances at the time of the previous loan were no longer relevant.
Mrs Ms second loan was for £250, the same amount she had previously borrowed and her 
income remained the same. Given the number of rollovers on loan 1 and as I do not find the 
gap in lending is enough to say a new chain was started at loan 2, I think Mr Lender should 
have been concerned that Mrs M was experiencing problems managing her money and 
there was a high risk this loan wouldnt be sustainably affordable for her. 
Loan 2 was due to be repaid at end September 2012 but wasnt repaid until October 2013, 
more than a year later (although I note that Mrs M made some capital repayments from June 
2013). I think this shows that Mrs M was still experiencing financial difficulties and that she 
wasnt able to sustainably repay the loan.
Loan 3 was provided as soon as loan 2 was repaid and was for a much larger amount. Loan 
2 was repayable after 28 days and given the amount Mrs M would have needed to repay this 
would have been a significant portion of her monthly income. This combined with her 
borrowing history and noting that this was Mrs Ms third loan, I think shows that this loan 
shouldnt have been considered sustainably affordable for Mrs M.
Mr Lender has noted that the first rollover on loan 3 was part of the agreement, however, this 
still shows that Mrs M rolled over loan 3 a further three times before repaying it in June 2014. 
She then took out a smaller loan two weeks later. While I note further checks were carried 
out before loan 4 was provided and that it was an instalment loan repayable over 10 
instalments, I still dont find that given Mrs Ms borrowing history that Mr Lender should have 
thought it reasonable to provide this loan. This was Mrs Ms fourth loan and she had had 
debt outstanding with Mr Lender for around 32 of the previous 38 months. She hadnt repaid 
her previous loans in line with the schedules and instead had rolled over the loans for 
extended periods. Mrs Ms income had reduced slightly at this time and I do not find that this 
loan should have been considered sustainably affordable. Mrs M repaid loan 4 on time and then there was a break of just over two months before she 
took out loan 5. I note the comments Mr Lender has made about the break in lending, but I 
do not find this was enough to say that the situation Mrs M experienced prior to this loan was 
no longer relevant. Loan 5 was for £800 repayable over six monthly instalments. As the 
amount Mrs M was borrowing wasnt decreasing (loan 5 was the highest amount she had 
borrowed) and given her repayment history over the previous loans, I do not find it was 
reasonable that Mr Lender continued to lend to Mrs M.
Overall, I agree with our adjudicator that there was evidence that Mrs M was struggling to 
manage her money from the rollovers of the first loan and that there was nothing to suggest 
this situation changed in such a way that any subsequent lending should have been 
considered sustainable. Therefore, I uphold this complaint from the fifth rollover of loan 1 
and for all subsequent loans.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs M from the fifth rollover on loan 1 as Im 
satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs M would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender should:
refund Mrs M all interest and charges she paid from the fifth rollover on loan 1 
onwards and on all subsequent loans along with 8% simple interest* on the individual 
payments from the date of payment to the date the complaint is settled.
remove any adverse information that has been recorded on Mrs Ms credit file in 
relation to the rollovers on loan 1 from the fifth rollover onwards, and in relation to 
loans 2 to 5.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for 
one.My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. PDL Finance Limited trading as 
Mr Lender should take the actions set out above in order to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman