DRN-1976403
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the time it took Wirecard Card Solutions Limited to refund an ATM 
withdrawal which didnt dispense. And hed like compensation for the inconvenience this 
caused him. 
What happened
Mr M said he attempted to withdraw £50 from an ATM, owned by another bank Ill call N, on 
11 October 2019. However, the transaction timed out and the cash wasnt dispensed. On the 
same day Mr M contacted Wirecard to inform them of what had happened and to request a 
refund. 
Wirecard told Mr M that the transaction was still pending and so they would need to wait 
seven days to see if the money was taken by N and if it wasnt, a refund would be issued on 
day eight. They also explained that if the money was taken by N, a chargeback would need 
to be raised and the bank told Mr M this could take up to 55 days to complete. Mr M was 
also informed that if he provided the following evidence from N they could speed up the 
refund process  the date of transaction, the transaction amount and that they wont be 
taking the money.
The funds were cleared by N so Wirecard sent Mr M a chargeback form to complete on      
22 October 2019. Mr M returned the completed form on 1 November 2019. Wirecard said 
that a chargeback was raised, but the claim wasnt defended and so Wirecard processed a 
refund of £50 to Mr M on 23 December 2019. 
Mr M was unhappy with the timescales involved and so he referred his complaint to our 
service. He said that while he was waiting for a refund from Wirecard he had to borrow 
money for food and gas. Wirecard didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said that the timeframe 
for a refund is in line with the relevant chargeback scheme rules.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. She felt that Wirecard had resolved the matter within a 
reasonable time as set out by the relevant chargeback scheme rules. Mr M disagreed. He 
said that he should have received his money back sooner, is unhappy about being charged 
a £1 fee for the withdrawal and he would like to be compensated for the time spent and 
stress caused by this matter. Mr M asked for his case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so 
the complaint was passed to me. On reviewing the case, I asked the investigator to go back 
to Wirecard to get more evidence that a chargeback had been raised and Wirecard provided 
further documents.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator 
previously set out and for much of the same reasons. 
The relevant chargeback scheme rules state that N has 45 days to respond to a chargeback 
claim. It is therefore expected that once the 45 day period has come to an end, if the claim 
hasnt been defended, a refund would be made to the consumer. 
Mr M said Wirecard should have refunded him sooner as he needed the money. Ive taken 
this into consideration, but based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied on balance that 
Wirecard raised the chargeback within the required timeframe and because N didnt respond 
Wirecard refunded Mr M. Although Wirecard could have been clearer on why the process 
could take up to 55 days, Im satisfied that the matter was concluded within the expected 
timeframe. 
Ive considered what Mr M has said about it taking too long but I have not seen any evidence 
of unnecessary delay caused by Wirecard in dealing with this matter. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr M but I think that Wirecard dealt with the matter 
within a reasonable timeframe and the chargeback process was completed in line with the 
relevant chargeback scheme rules. So I wont be asking Wirecard to do anything further 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman