DRN-2904084
The complaint
Ms L complains that her ISA transfer should have taken no more than 15 days and that 
Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd is responsible for the delays and resultant investment 
loss.
What happened
Ms Ls proposed new provider, F, sent her transfer form to Vanguard on 4 March 2020; 
Vanguard said it didnt receive this till 9 March. Given this period included a weekend the 
investigator didnt find this surprising or suspicious.
Vanguard did not appear to take any action until after Ms Ls partner rang to chase up the 
transfer on 24 March. It promised to respond by the end of the week but didnt do so. 
Instead, it sent a valuation letter (of Ms Ls ISA) to F on 30 March. This was 21 days after 
receiving her transfer request.
On 8 April Vanguard spoke to a representative of F, explaining that it could not send the 
proceeds by cheque, as had been requested, and requested Fs bank details. The 
representative said he could not provide these by phone and sent them by post; Vanguard 
claimed it did not receive these until 22 April. However, F has also been asked to send these 
details to Vanguard on behalf of Ms Ls partner (who was also transferring his ISA assets) 
and Vanguard acknowledged it received this request on 14 April. During this interregnum F 
sent two chaser letters to Vanguard about the delay in the transfer.
The transfer was completed on 5 May and F invested the cash in Ms Ls chosen investment 
fund the following day.
When Ms L complained, Vanguard said transfers can take up to 30 days but acknowledged 
there had been some delays and offered her £100 in lieu of this.
An investigator at this service concluded that Vanguard was responsible for some of the 
delay and was satisfied that Ms L intended to invest in her chosen investment fund as soon 
as the funds became available. Vanguard was therefore responsible for any investment loss 
arising from the delays which were its fault.
There were then lengthy exchanges about the regulatory requirements, custom and practice 
etc. and therefore the extent of the delay Vanguard should be deemed responsible for.
In her final assessment, she said:
Although Ms L held a Stocks and Shares ISA all her money was in cash. So while 
she accepted that the 15-day guideline didnt apply, equally she didnt believe it 
should have taken 30 days given Vanguard did not need to obtain share values and 
sell assets in order to complete the transfer
 She also didnt accept that the HMRC guidelines meant businesses did not have to 
attempt to complete transfers until the final day of the 30 calendar-day period
She accepted that Covid may have caused some understandable delay but had seen 
no evidence that Vanguard had taken any proactive steps to progress the transfer 
until Ms Ls partner chased things
Overall, she felt the 15-day guideline was more applicable than the 30-day one, and 
that both referred to calendar days and not business days
Given Vanguard acknowledged that it had received Fs bank account details on 14 
April, in relation to Ms Ls partners transfer, she felt this was the point at which it 
would most likely have received these details re Ms Ls own transfer. This was 11 
working days
She also felt it should have taken no more than five working days for Vanguard to 
then complete the transfer
Overall, she felt that  but for Vanguards failings  it ought to have been possible for 
the transfer to be completed some point between the 16th working day after it 
received the transfer application and the 30th calendar day
She therefore proposed that Vanguard carry out a calculation of the average unit 
(purchase) price of the F equity fund between the 20th working day and 8th April 
2020 and then determine how many units Ms Ls money would have been able to 
purchase at that time and compare this against the number of units actually 
purchased following the transfer. If there is a difference in the number of units,
Vanguard should arrange to place Miss L in the same position she would have been 
in had she purchased these additional units within her ISA
She felt Vanguard should pay £200 in total in lieu of the trouble and upset caused 
and noted that it had agreed to this
Ms Ls partner responded on her behalf, saying:
At a minimum the redress for both should be calculated from the commencement of 
the period Vanguard had all the information
I have explained the rationale of this in my prior correspondence, with the main 
points being if we are allowing Vanguard the full 30 calendar-day period for redress 
purposes, the start date for calculation should be the earliest this could have 
occurred
I have also provided evidence why it is feasible Vanguard could have acted the same 
day which further supports the use of this earlier date for the redress calculation
Vanguard did not agree with the investigators proposed redress, saying:
We only offer a Stocks & Shares ISAs; all our processes are based on the 
timeframes for a Stocks & Shares ISA
A client holding a Stocks & Shares ISA, yet only transferring cash, does not bring the 
Stocks & Shares ISA transfer into the scope of the Cash ISA to Cash ISA timeframes 
of 15 business days
The HMRC Guidelines for Stocks & Shares ISAs state that transfers should be 
completed within 30 calendar days
TISA guidance is 30 business days which is more reasonable at certain times of the 
year, such as Easter in this case, where longer Bank Holidays can have a significant 
impact on the timeframe
However, both of these measures are guidance only and while the vast majority of 
transfers do compete quickly and within these timescales, they can sometimes take 
longer
Our Terms & Conditions state we will process Transfer Out requests no later than 30 
business days following receipt of a validated instruction to do so
We received Miss Ls request on Monday 9th March 2020 and the transfer was 
completed on 5th May 2020. A period of 40 business daysDuring this time the industry was affected by the sudden change in ways of working 
due to Covid restrictions as well as it being tax year end
However, we were actively advising clients that transfers were taking longer than 
usual during this time by sending out emails and secure messages as well as 
through articles uploaded to our website to warn of the situation. This caused the 
delay between receiving the request and sending the valuation to F 15 business 
days later on 30th March 2020
We believe that five working days is a reasonable period for this to have been 
completed
Therefore, based on the subsequent timings, Miss Ls transfer could have completed 
on 21st April 2020
We strongly believe we should not be held solely responsible for the delays 
completing her transfer as some of the delay was caused by the other providers 
processes or errors
In a Provisional Decision, I said:
Firstly, I think it is important to reiterate in this specific case that my role and that of this 
service is to assess what we feel is fair and reasonable, not solely to consider terms and 
conditions or transfer time-limits etc i.e. we assess what a business ought reasonably to 
have done to provide an appropriate and timely service to its customers.
In this context, I do not accept that this complaint should be judged solely by the criterion 
of whether Vanguard completed the transfer in 30 working days (in fact, it didnt). There is 
a very good reason why HMRC guidelines suggest that while a Cash ISA ought 
reasonably to be completed within 15 days other ISAs may take up to 30 calendar days.
This is because stocks and shares transfers typically require significantly more work, 
obtaining transfer values, checking in specie considerations, requesting encashments 
etc. So it would not be appropriate to expect businesses to complete all these tasks 
within 15 days as a matter of course.
By contrast, Ms Ls assets, despite being held in a Stocks and Shares ISA, were already in 
cash and she simply instructed Vanguard to transfer this cash to another provider (within 
her ISA holding). In my view, this presents no greater challenge than a cash to cash 
transfer and Vanguard ought reasonably to have been able to do this within 15 working 
days, assuming there were no complications outside its control. This, in my view, would 
have constituted appropriately prompt customer service.
So, as Vanguard received Miss Ls signed instructions on 9 March 2020, I believe it 
should have completed the transfer by March 30 at the latest but for delays outside its 
control. In this context, I dont accept Vanguards argument that because it only deals 
with Stocks and Shares ISAs, this means it is automatically entitled to take 30 days to 
complete simple transfer requests.
Crucially, there is no evidence that Vanguard did anything to progress the transfer for 21 
days, and then only after being chased by Ms Ls partner. This didnt take place for 
another six days.
I also dont accept Vanguards argument that Covid was a sufficient explanation for it 
appearing to do nothing between 9 March and 30 March. The Government didnt 
recommend working from home, if possible, till 16 March; and according to Ms Ls 
partner Vanguard said they did not action this till 23 March  by which time the transfer 
ought to have been close to completion.I have therefore assessed what delays were due to Ms Ls proposed new provider.
On 8 April Vanguard informed F that it could not pay the proceeds by cheque and F said it 
would send these details the same day by letter. Vanguard says it didnt receive this letter 
till 22 April. Even assuming F sent this letter second class post, I am not persuaded that 
Vanguard did not receive it for 14 days.
F sent the same letter to Vanguard on behalf of Ms Ls partner, about the same issue, 
and it claims to have received this letter on 14 April. I therefore do not accept, on balance, 
that the letter regarding Ms Ls transfer didnt arrive till 8 days later. Secondly, I have seen 
no persuasive evidence to demonstrate that either letter failed to arrive till 14 April and 22 
April respectively.
Given the considerable evidence demonstrating that Vanguard did not act promptly 
throughout this process (including a failure to respond to phone calls or emails promptly), I 
cannot safely conclude that it didnt receive the letter regarding Ms Ls transfer after two to 
three working days. It may well have received this letter as early as Friday 10 April, two 
days after F sent it.
In any event, given the very considerable delay before Vanguard took any action, I think 
it ought to have proactively chased the new provider to ensure it received its bank 
details as soon as possible.
Overall, I dont think this delay while F provided its bank details ought to have prevented 
the transfer being completed within or close to 15 working days.
Taking this and the other relevant evidence into account, I believe Vanguard should 
reasonably have completed Ms Ls transfer somewhere between 30 March and 3 April 
2020 if it had acted with appropriate diligence.
In this context it is important to point out that HMRC advice says cash transfers should 
take no longer than 15 days while some providers refer to two weeks being the expected 
time for a cash transfer. So, the question of what action a provider takes, or doesnt take, 
is crucial when considering if it acted promptly and appropriately. This is why I am 
satisfied that my time window on 30 March to 3 April is fair and reasonable.
I have considered at length the numerous submissions by both parties about this issue, 
along with the investigators various assessments, and I recognise there are a variety of 
approaches to assessing this time issue. But I am satisfied  on the balance of 
probabilities - that this is a fair and reasonable conclusion.
I therefore currently intend to instruct Vanguard to pay compensation based on this being 
the likely period when Ms L could reasonably have received the proceeds  and invested 
them the following day.
Vanguard must therefore:
Carry out a carry out a calculation of the average unit (purchase) price of the 
Fundsmith equity fund between 30 March 2020 and 4 April 2020 and then 
determine how many units Ms Ls money would have been able to purchase at 
that time
Compare this against the number of units actually purchased following the transferIf there is a difference in the number of units, Vanguard should arrange to place 
Ms L in the same position she would have been in had she purchased these 
additional units within her ISA by purchasing such units on her behalf
Finally, I have considered all the evidence regarding Vanguards actions and the extent to 
which it caused Ms L trouble and upset via its failures. Having done so, I do not believe 
£200 fairly reflects this. Ms L was transferring a large sum of money, £182,000, her entire 
ISA holding, from a cash holding to invest in a chosen fund. This would have been a big 
decision and when things clearly didnt progress would undoubtedly, in my view, have 
caused considerable distress.
The fact that Vanguard did not respond promptly to her partners queries would have 
added to this. The evidence I have seen also indicates it did not respond positively or 
proactively to further requests from both F and Ms Ls partner, I also believe Vanguards 
handling of her complaint left much to be desired, including failing to accept that even the 
small delay it accepted responsibility for had not caused an investment loss. Overall, I 
believe £350 to be a fair figure in lieu of these issues and therefore intend to instruct 
Vanguard to pay a further £250, as I understand that only £100 has been paid to date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accepted my proposed compensation formula including the additional £250.
Putting things right
 I therefore instruct  Vanguard Asset Management Ltd. to carry out a calculation of 
the average unit (purchase) price of the Fundsmith equity fund between 30 March 
2020 and 4 April 2020 and then determine how many units Ms Ls money would 
have been able to purchase at that time
Compare this against the number of units actually purchased following the transfer
If there is a difference in the number of units, Vanguard should arrange to place 
Ms L in the same position she would have been in had she purchased these 
additional units within her ISA by purchasing such units on her behalf
Pay Ms L an additional £250 in lieu of the trouble and upset caused by its poor 
service
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and instruct Vanguard Asset Management Ltd. to pay compensation 
as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman