DRN-2821094
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) left her without access to the money 
in her bank account for several months. She doesnt feel it has offered her sufficient 
compensation in relation to this delay.
What happened
In late November and early December 2020 Ms B transferred her universal credit payments 
to her Santander current account from another current account in her name. She explained 
this was because she had a temporary issue with the other account and couldnt make 
withdrawals from it at that time.
But, in 2016 a bankruptcy hold was placed on Ms Bs Santander account so she couldnt 
withdraw the funds as expected. Ms B went into branch to discuss this with staff. She 
explained she had no access to any money and the Christmas period was coming up.
According to Santanders records, it informed Ms B that because of her bankruptcy it 
couldnt release the funds without confirmation there was no interest from her official 
receiver. Ms B explained the bankruptcy was annulled and staff appear to have contacted 
her bankruptcy practitioner directly who confirmed this. She also provided evidence the 
money was her benefit payment and that it came from another of her own bank accounts.
But, Santander maintained it needed written evidence there was no interest in the money 
under the bankruptcy. The bankruptcy practitioner emailed Santander and said they couldnt 
provide this, because the bankruptcy had been annulled. So, Santander told Ms B she would 
need to provide the entire court document confirming this. Ms B didnt have this paperwork 
and says she wouldve needed to contact the court to get it.
Santanders records show a specialist team who dealt with court matters refused to give Ms 
B access to her benefits without the full annulment documentation. In April 2021, Santander 
appears to have escalated the matter to a different legal team who allowed Ms B to access 
her money without the need for any further information.
Ms B made a complaint to Santander about its actions, but it responded and said it hadnt 
done anything wrong. It said the hold on her account was put in place correctly. It had 
correctly escalated the matter, but as she didnt have the evidence it required it hadnt been 
able to release her money.
Ms B didnt accept this and asked our service to look into things. Our investigator felt 
Santander couldve released Ms Bs money sooner. They tried to mediate a suitable amount 
of compensation for the delays but ultimately Ms B didnt feel the amount offered was 
enough so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Ms B at some point was involved in bankruptcy proceedings. And 
according to Santanders records it doesnt appear she ever let Santander know the 
outcome of this. And, I can see shortly after the hold was put in place Ms B stopped using 
the account. So, I think its reasonable Santander followed its procedures by restricting the 
account until it was updated. But, overall, I dont think it treated Ms B fairly and reasonably 
here.
I understand caution is needed when someone is involved in bankruptcy proceedings. And, I 
do accept Santander is entitled to make its own decisions about the risk it is prepared to 
undertake when providing services to its customers. But I think it had enough evidence in 
this case to make a reasonable judgment that the risk of Ms Bs money being tied up in 
bankruptcy proceedings did not out weigh the risk of leaving her with no access to any 
money.
I say this because according to its records, Santander asked Ms Bs former official receiver 
for a letter of no interest and they confirmed by email it wasnt possible for them to write a 
letter of no interest because the bankruptcy had been annulled. Santander hasnt said it had 
any doubts about the legitimacy of this. In addition, Ms B provided reasonable evidence, in 
the form of her bank statements, and her benefit letter, that showed the money she was 
trying to access were her benefit payments. As I understand it, she was also able to provide 
part of the annulment documentation Santander requested, but not in full.
So I think it had enough to satisfy itself this money likely wasnt part of a bankruptcy 
settlement. And, ultimately, Santander released Ms Bs money without the information it 
originally requested. So it seems according to its own procedures it couldve released the 
money much sooner than it did.
Santander has argued this wasnt Ms Bs main account so she wouldve had access to other 
funds. But it hasnt provided any evidence that suggests this is the case and Im not sure 
how Santander has reached this conclusion given Ms B has said this was the only money 
she had. And, given it appears she was on a fixed income at the time, I havent seen 
anything that makes me doubt this.
Overall I think Santander was informed by Ms B she had no access to any money and 
therefore was aware of what a vulnerable situation she was in. I accept it didnt have all the 
information it wanted, but given how difficult Ms Bs situation was, I think it ought to have 
done more. Especially given the amount involved was around £500, so a relatively low risk. 
And again, Santander did release the money without the information it originally requested.
Ms B has confirmed she was due to receive a benefit payment a month after the payment 
that was held by Santander. This was to be paid to another account, and although there was 
an issue with the card linked to this account, this appeared to be temporary. So from what 
Ive seen Ms B was left with no access to any money for around a month, and then deprived 
of access to a substantial sum, given she was on a fixed income, for a further three months 
 until Santander released the money in April 2021.
Ms B has explained how distressing she found this situation. Shes explained she had to 
borrow money from family and friends and missed out on specific purchases shed intended 
to make and I have no doubt this experience wouldve been very difficult for her.
Ive considered Ms Bs comments very carefully, but I think the £175 originally recommended 
by the investigator was reasonable in this case. So I think this is the amount Santander should pay in compensation for the delays and the subsequent distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
Santander UK Plc should make a payment of £175 to Ms B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman