DRN-2746738
The complaint
Miss B complains about mistakes made by Standard Life Assurance Limited (SL) in quoting 
a value for her pension with them 
What happened
Miss B said she reached age 60 in 2020. She was planning to retire and had moved over 
89% of her investment funds in to fixed interest investments in March 2020. On 8 September 
it told her the value of her investments was around £9,800 lower than she had expected. 
She said she relied on the valuation information to decide about retiring. Had she known the 
value was lower than she expected she couldve worked for longer. She was worse off and 
wanted SL to reinstate the higher value shown online on 10 July 2020. 
SL said that in mid-2020 Miss B contacted them to say she had overpaid contributions in late 
2019. The excess of around £7,600 was refunded in 2020 but the records were not updated 
correctly. This meant an incorrect value was displayed until September 2020. It said the 
annual statement for 5 April 2020 did show the correct amount of bonus. As at 8 October 
2020 the plan value was around £277,000 with a final bonus of around £2,000 and a 
retirement value of around £279,000. It apologised for the error and offered to pay £300. It 
said plan values were not guaranteed until her retirement was completed.
I issued a provisional decision in this case. In short, I said it was clear there had been a 
mistake as SL accepted the online values were incorrect.
I therefore needed to consider an award for any financial loss and distress and 
inconvenience caused by the error.
In a situation such as this the law would seek to put Miss B back in the position, she 
wouldve been in but for the mistake. The error was to overstate the value so the law would 
put her back in the position with the lower correct value as this is the position, she should 
always have been in had there been no error. That would mean there was no financial loss 
as she was never entitled to the higher valuation.
In certain circumstances the law will assist where it can be shown that a person has acted in 
reliance on the misrepresented value and the business was told they were going to rely on it 
for that purpose. Miss B says that she relied on the valuation in deciding to give notice and 
leave work. She says she gave seven weeks notice on 14 September 2020 fully expecting 
the higher value to be correct and in reliance on the higher figure.
SL said that bonus values were not guaranteed and could go up and down. But I note that 
Miss B said she had changed her investments in March to move into a less volatile cash 
deposit which wouldnt be subject to such great variations in value as some other classes of 
investment. It seems she was trying to preserve value for her retirement fund, so she had 
certainty about its amount and therefore the possibility of retiring.
I note however that in June 2020 she raised the issue of the overpaid contribution and a 
refund of over £7,000 was paid in July. I might reasonably have thought Miss B would expect 
her valuation to fall following that payment, especially given she had switched in to a more 
cash like investment. SL said the system was corrected following this payment but from early 
July to early September the incorrect bonus amount was stated.
Given the refund and the underlying investment creating a more stable and consistent fund 
value I might reasonably have expected Miss B to notice that the total value didnt reduce by 
an amount equivalent to the refund. I note she double checked the bonus in August as she 
said it was only there in recent months and it was confirmed as correct. But SL also said that 
the bonus could go up or down, the bonus was not guaranteed and could vary. This was 
repeated in early September. But it seems Miss B did notice the higher value and wisely 
asked for confirmation the value was correct and noticed when there was a change in late 
August and early September and questioned this as well.
On Miss Bs complaint form she says that she was aware of an issue on 8 September 
(before she handed in her notice) and there are comments in the file records that the bonus 
has disappeared from her online account on 9 September. There are earlier references to 
various issues with the account on 25 August. On 10 September there is a suggestion that 
she has already given notice and a complaint is in place by 11 September. So, it seems that 
Miss B was aware there was an issue before she handed in her notice on 14 September and 
she had been told the bonus amount was guaranteed. 
I note the correct position was not confirmed until October, but it was clear there was some 
cause for concern in September and Miss B was waiting for clarification from SL before she 
gave her notice. While I note she hoped the position was an administrative error and would 
be sorted I think she was on notice of a potential problem before she gave in her notice to 
leave employment. So, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that Miss B relied on the 
valuation in handing in her notice or if she did, I dont think it was reasonable for her to do so 
given there were outstanding problems and she had been told the bonus wasnt guaranteed.
Consequently, I cannot hold SL liable for payment of the higher amount.
I have considered an award for distress and inconvenience. Such an award is to reflect the 
impact on Miss B not to punish SL for its error. I think this situation was very disappointing, 
and Miss B suffered a loss of expectation. I note she said the situation went on for some 
time, but it seems the issues emerged in July and August and the problem identified by late 
August/early September, so I dont think this was a very extended period. I can understand 
however that at the time she was trying to decide about work and the incorrect value wont 
have helped. Having considered this, I think the impact was in line with an award for £300. 
So, I thought what SL has offered was fair and reasonable.
Miss B said that she thought it extremely misleading that for several months she was shown 
a retirement figure of approximately £9,000 more than the transfer value. She said she 
checked it and it looked like the retirement value was higher if she stayed with SL and not 
transferred to another company. She also wished to know when SL became aware of the 
error.
SL had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the light of the replies I have not changed my mind for the reasons given below. I note Mrs Bs comments and I agree that the figures were misleading. But as I said in my 
provisional decision the law requires that she is put back in the position she would have 
been in but for the mistake. That would mean that she was entitled to the lower figure. 
I also noted the warnings were clear that the amount wasnt guaranteed. I further considered 
whether Miss B acted in reliance on the higher figure but for the reasons given concluded 
that she did not do so, or it wasnt reasonable to do so.
I note she would like to know when SL were aware of the error. I dont have a precise date 
for this, but I dont think it would make a difference to my conclusions because she was 
aware of the potential error when she gave in her notice and cant be said to have relied on 
it. 
However, there was clearly a mistake that caused Miss B distress and inconvenience and I 
felt an award was appropriate and concluded that the amount already paid by SL was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I have considered whether it would have made a difference to my conclusions if I thought SL 
were aware of the error and didnt tell Miss B sooner than it did. But based on the evidence I 
dont think that is the case. I say that because the correspondence shows Miss B raising 
queries and SL looking into it. This does take some time, but she is told the matter is still in 
hand. There are numerous exchanges between the parties during September confirming SL 
are looking into the matter before a final answer is issued in early October with an apology 
and payment. So, I dont think there is evidence to suggest that was the case.
I note Miss Bs comments that it appeared better to stay with SL rather than transfer away 
but she didnt present evidence to show that she took advice to explore moving away and 
then actively decided to stay. So, it doesnt seem she acted in reliance on the figures to 
decide to stay with SL. 
However, I can appreciate she might not have explored the transfer option if she thought it 
was better to stay. But, as I said, the figures were not guaranteed so it would not have been 
reasonable to rely on figures that werent guaranteed to decide not to explore a transfer.
For all these reasons I have not changed my view set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My direction is that Standard Life Assurance Limited has made a fair and reasonable offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman