DRN-4033371
The complaint
Mr G complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) has mishandled his claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 in respect of a conservatory and replacements windows and doors which were poorly 
installed.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Im not going to set it 
out in full detail but rather summarise the key events.
In July 2017 Mr G arranged with a retailer for the supply and installation of a conservatory 
and replacement windows and doors. He entered into two fixed sum loans with BPF, one for 
just over £63,000 for the conservatory and the second for just over £50,500 for the windows 
and doors. Both loans were for the period of 120 months. These loans were to be activated 
once notes of satisfaction had been signed by Mr G after their supply and installation.
In September 2017 work commenced on building the conservatory. Mr G, using his own 
knowledge as a builder, said this was a poor decision as the installation of the windows and 
doors would be made more difficult with the conservatory in place and damage to his 
property would be likely. 
In November 2017 work commenced on the installation of the windows and doors. The work 
took three days but there were some elements that were not completed, and others Mr G 
said hadnt been completed satisfactorily.
Mr G was asked to sign the notes of satisfaction by the retailer even though the works 
werent completed as some items needed to be replaced. Mr G says he felt blackmailed by 
the fitters who put pressure on him to sign and told him that if he signed then all the work 
would be completed in 31 days. Feeling he had little choice Mr G says he signed. This 
allowed the loan agreement for the windows and doors to be activated.
Mr G was unhappy at the standard of the work on both the conservatory and the 
replacement windows and doors and in December 2017 he made a complaint to BPF. BPF 
opened a claim and arranged for Mr G and the retailer to liaise together in order to rectify 
any faults with the works.
Over the next three years Mr G and the retailer exchanged a number of fault-lists as to what 
work needed to be completed. The retailer and Mr G didnt reach full agreement as to what 
was unsatisfactory and needed remedial action. It was however agreed that the Glass and 
Glazing Federation would inspect the installations to ensure the standard of work was 
satisfactory once all the work was completed. 
Mr G complained to the retailer that during the various installation work some of his 
possessions had been damaged. The retailer asked him to obtain invoices for the items that 
needed replacement.
Although the loan agreement for the windows and doors was activated by BPF, it didnt 
activate the loan agreement for the conservatory, and this has remained the case. 
In June 2020, the retailer went into administration. BPF then appointed a new third-party 
company to manage the claims so they could progress.
BPF then requested a second third-party company to get involved and it was arranged for a 
chartered surveyor to inspect the work at Mr Gs home. Mr G provided information as to the 
issues that he believed were outstanding. Provisional appointments for the inspection were 
made. However, these visits didnt then go ahead.
In June 2021, BPF decided to agree Mr Gs claim in respect of the conservatory. It agreed to 
reimburse his deposit in full, cancel the loan agreement so it could never be activated and 
asked Mr G to choose either for BPF to arrange for the conservatory to be taken down at no 
cost to himself or source his own contractor to undertake this work and BPF would cover the 
cost. 
BPF also accepted that its handling of Mr Gs claims in respect of the conservatory and the 
windows and doors had caused him distress and confusion. It offered him £500 
compensation to cover the impact this had had on him.
In respect of the remaining claim for the windows and doors, BPF asked Mr G in July 2021 
to supply a quote in respect of the work that was still outstanding. It also informed Mr G that 
both the third -party companies it had requested get involved could no longer take on any 
further work in respect of his claims and had removed themselves from the investigation.
By September 2021 Mr G had accepted each of the elements offered as a settlement to the 
problems that had arisen with the conservatory. However, he was unhappy at the request he 
obtained a quote about the outstanding remedial work for the windows and doors.
In October 2021 BPF confirmed that Mr Gs claim the conservatory had been agreed but 
said that his claim in respect of the windows and doors had now been closed because there 
wasnt enough information as to what was still outstanding and what the cost of that work 
would be as he hadnt obtained the required quote.
Mr G complained to BPF that it had acted unfairly by treating his claims as two separate 
matters. He said it wasnt fair for BPF to treat his claim for the windows and doors differently 
to his claim about the conservatory. He said the conservatory claim had been settled without 
the need for a quote and he believed BPF was unfairly imposing conditions in respect of the 
windows and doors claim. He said BPF hadnt responded as it should have to his emails and 
phone calls about his claims which had caused him further distress and inconvenience. Mr G 
said that due to his health conditions which he had informed BPF about, he had found it 
difficult to cope with the situation.
BPF has, between January 2021 and January 2022, issued nine final response letters in 
respect of Mr Gs complaints about the handling of his claims under Section 75. In these final 
response letters, BPF has accepted Mr G suffered unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
through its handling of his claims and complaints and it paid him a total amount of £1,600 as 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him for the way it has handled 
his claims. 
However, BPF has declined to reimburse Mr G for any of his possessions which he said had 
been damaged during the installations. BPF said it hadnt received any receipts or invoices 
for these losses. IBPF has also confirmed that it still required Mr G to provide the one quote as to the 
outstanding work and the cost of that work in regard to the installation of the windows and 
doors. And until that quote was provided, BPF said it wouldnt be able to issue further 
correspondence to Mr G about his claim.
Mr G was unhappy at BPFs final decision that this quote was required and complained to 
this service. He also said BPF hadnt provided him with a good service particularly in view of 
his health condition.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Gs complaint should be partially upheld in that she 
thought it had been unfair for BPF to have declined to reimburse him for some of the items 
which had been damaged by the retailer during the installation of the conservatory, windows 
and doors. But in respect of the other issues raised by Mr G, our investigator said she 
thought BPF was acting fairly with its requirement for one quote and that it had acted fairly 
when it had paid compensation in recognition for its failures in the service provided to Mr G. 
In regard to the request for the one quote as to the outstanding issues with the windows and 
doors, our investigator said she thought BPF had acted fairly by treating Mr Gs Section 75 
claims for the conservatory and the windows and doors differently. She said the financial 
agreement for the conservatory had never been activated so it was reasonable to assume 
that the agreed works either hadnt been fully completed or hadnt been completed 
satisfactorily. Our investigator said this differed to the installation of the windows and doors, 
as there had been a number of inspections carried out by the retailer before they went into 
liquidation which showed various items had been properly fitted and that some of the 
reported faults were minor in nature.
Our investigator said that although BPF had been able to engage two third-party companies 
to assist with investigating the quality of the installations, these companies had later 
withdrawn as they couldnt take on any further work. She said that in these circumstances 
she didnt think BPF was acting unfairly by asking Mr G to provide a quote as to what work 
was still required on the windows and doors. 
Our investigator said that BPF had acknowledged it hadnt provided the service Mr G 
reasonably could have expected. It had provided £1,600 in total as compensation for the 
manner in which it had dealt with his claims. She said she thought this amount was fair and 
wasnt going to ask BPF to do increase the compensation. 
BPF agreed with our investigators view, but Mr G disagreed. He said he was concerned that 
the surveyor engaged by BPF to undertake an inspection had said he was willing to attend 
his home only for BPF to say they werent able to come a short time later. Mr G said he 
thought this could be because the cost of such an inspection was too high for BPF.
Mr G also says that BPF has set a precedent in the way his section 75 claims should 
proceed by the way it had settled the conservatory claim where there had been no need for 
a quote as to the outstanding work. He said BPF should now settled the windows and doors 
claim in the same way by providing him with a direct refund. 
Mr G says that BPF has caused him further unnecessary distress and confusion by dealing 
with the conservatory and the windows and doors installation as two different complaints as 
he says these arise from one event. Mr G says BPF should pay additional compensation for 
the impact this has had on him.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties are aware, the evidence and views provided for this complaint have been 
extensive. And while I dont criticise that as I understand both the importance this matter has 
for Mr G and his methodical approach, I dont mean any disrespect to either him or BPF if I 
dont deal with everything thats been raised. 
Mr Gs Section 75 claim
Ive seen that Mr G arranged for the same retailer to supply and install a new conservatory 
and replacement windows and doors to his home. While I can appreciate why Mr G views 
this as one agreement because it was all agreed at the same time, he did enter into two 
separate credit agreements, one for the cost of the conservatory and the second for the 
costs of the windows and doors. I note Mr G says he had no choice about that.
Ive seen that the conservatory installation started first followed by the installation of the 
windows and doors. The conservatory wasnt finished when Mr G signed the satisfaction 
note for the windows and doors. Mr G says he signed this note only because he felt 
pressured to do so as the fitters promised to complete all the works and correct any issues 
within the next 31 days. However, Mr G says the fitters didnt keep to this promise. The 
effect of signing the satisfaction note was that BPF released the funds and activated the 
fixed sum loan agreement for the windows and doors.
Mr G contacted BPF in December 2017 to complain about the standard of the installation 
of both the conservatory and the windows and doors. On receipt of his complaint BPF 
appears to have opened one claim under section 75 for him as it used only one reference 
number. 
Section 75 gives a consumer, in certain circumstances, equal right to claim a refund 
against the supplier of goods or services and the provider of credit if there has been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. And my role when looking at Mr 
Gs complaint is not to decide his section 75 claim but whether BPF has handled his claim 
fairly and reasonably. 
Breach of contract
I dont think its disputed that the works at Mr Gs home didnt go as planned. I think its 
fair to say BPF has accepted there were issues with the conservatory and also with the 
windows and doors (although the extent of the issues are currently unknown). So, I dont 
think I need to decide whether there had been a breach of the contract here. BPF has 
agreed that the works undertaken on Mr Gs home were not carried out to a satisfactory 
standard and, in light of the amount of time it has taken, they also werent carried out in a 
reasonable period of time.
BPFs handling of Mr Gs Section 75 claim
BPF at first asked Mr G and the retailer to liaise together to resolve the issues with the 
installation works. I think this was reasonable as in accordance with the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015 the retailer has the right to carry out repairs. However, things appear to have made very slow progress and following three and half years of contact, the retailer went into 
administration. This meant it was for BPF to seek a resolution to the issues raised by Mr G.
Looking at the documentation provided, Ive seen that the retailer drew up a number of fault 
rectification lists on which Mr G was able to comment. The retailer then started to slowly 
work through the items on those lists. It was also agreed with the retailer that once the faults 
were considered to have been rectified that an independent inspection would be undertaken 
to assure that the work had been of a reasonable standard. These fault rectifications lists 
although numerous (and I note Mr G says there are still at least 28 faults remaining) indicate 
that some of the issues with the windows and doors were minor in nature. And I think its fair 
to think that when looking at those lists some of the installation for the windows and doors 
had been undertaken to an acceptable standard.
A. Activating the credit agreement for the windows and doors 
Mr G is unhappy that BPF activated the fixed sum loan he had entered into for the windows 
and doors. Ive seen that it hasnt activated the loan for the conservatory. However, Mr G 
agrees he signed the satisfaction note for the windows and doors in or around November 
2017. And while I appreciate Mr G felt forced to do so, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
BPF to act on receipt of that note and release the funds to the retailer. This was in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the loan agreement.
Ive also seen that BPF agreed to put a hold on Mr Gs repayments of that loan for three 
months and to refund one payment he had made while he tried to resolve his concerns with 
the retailer. So, in respect of providing the funds to the retailer for the windows and doors I 
think BPF has acted fairly.
B. Appointing two third-party companies 
BPF stepped in when the retailer went into administration and arranged for two third-party 
companies to become involved with the view that there would be inspections of the works 
undertaken which included an inspection of the conservatory. 
Mr G was contacted by a chartered surveyor from one of the third- party, there was a lengthy 
telephone conservation and information was passed between them about the installation. 
Ive seen that a date was set for the surveyor to visit. Unfortunately, prior to this visit both of 
the third-party companies announced they were no longer in a position to take on Mr Gs 
work. And while I can appreciate Mr Gs concern this was in fact a decision made by BPF, I 
havent seen any evidence that would suggest that. Following the pandemic, I think many 
companies have struggled to meet orders/planned works so I dont think this situation is 
necessarily unusual or suspicious in respect of BPFs actions. Im satisfied from what I have 
seen that BPF wasnt involved in the decision of the two third-party companies to withdraw.
C. Settling the conservatory claim
Following the withdrawal of the third-party companies, BPF made the decision to offer a full 
settlement for the conservatory. This included reimbursement of Mr Gs deposit, cancelling 
the credit agreement (which would insure it could never be activated) and either for Mr G to 
arrange for the conservatory to be taken down at no cost to himself or for BPF to make those 
arrangements again at no cost to Mr G.
BPF also offered Mr G £1,600 as compensation for the way it had handled his claims and 
complaints regarding the conservatory and the windows and doors.
Although Mr G has accepted this settlement in respect of the conservatory, he says the claim for the windows and doors should be handled in the same way and his claims should 
have been considered as one rather than two separate matters.
I appreciate Mr Gs view that the goalposts have been moved for him in respect of his claim 
about the windows and doors but, looking at all the evidence presented, I dont think BPF 
acted unfairly in seeking him to provide this quote and treating the claim for the conservatory 
separately from that for the windows and doors. 
Firstly, I think its an important consideration that there were two fixed sum loans entered into 
by Mr G. And although he has queried the need for that, I dont think the existence of the two 
credit agreements in these circumstances was unusual or unreasonable. By there being two 
credit agreements in existence then BPF was entitled to treat Mr Gs claims separately under 
section 75.
Secondly, the conservatory agreement has never been activated, unlike the credit 
agreement for the windows and doors. This means was BPF was reasonably able to 
conclude that the installation of the conservatory had never been considered satisfactory 
and so it was fair for it to offer to end that agreement. 
However, I accept that the use of one reference number for Mr Gs claim by BPF would have 
given him the impression that BPF was approaching this as one matter and this would have 
led to confusion for him when a second reference number was then added for the windows 
and doors. But, despite that, I think BPF actions here were reasonable. And it has agreed 
compensation for the inconvenience and distress due to the confusion and delays its 
handling of Mr Gs claim has caused him. 
D. Are BPFs actions over the conservatory binding for a decision about the 
windows and doors?
When a consumer makes a claim under section 75 then it is usual for them to be required to 
provide proof in respect of that claim. Here, there were to be inspections of the works 
undertaken when installing the conservatory and also in respect of the windows and doors 
installation. As set out above, these didnt proceed.
On review, BPF decided they had sufficient evidence to cancel the credit agreement for the 
conservatory and put Mr G back in the position he would have been in had the breach of 
contract not occurred, that is, repay him his deposit and cover the cost of dismantling it. But 
looking at the evidence in respect of the quality of the fitting the windows and doors, I think 
the position is not nearly as clear. 
As set out above, some of the work on the windows and doors appears to have been 
undertaken to a satisfactory standard. I also think its fair to say that some of the issues 
raised by Mr G are minor in nature. So, I think a report, or an inspection and quote is a 
necessary requirement to ascertain what work is actually still required to bring the installation 
of the doors and windows up to a satisfactory standard.  I think in these circumstances it 
would be unreasonable for the credit agreement to be cancelled in full and Mr G to receive a 
full reimbursement. I think this would be likely to put him in a better position than he was 
before the breach of contract and that would be unfair.
So, I dont think BPF was tying its hands as to how it could proceed resolving the issue with 
the windows and doors when it agreed to cancel the fixed sum loan agreement for the 
conservatory. I think BPF acted reasonably by taking two different actions here.
E. Fairness of asking Mr G to obtain the necessary evidenceBPF has asked Mr G to supply one quote setting out the work that is still outstanding in 
regard to the windows and doors. The usual request is for at least two such quotes and Ive 
also seen that BPF has only made this request when its own arrangements didnt work out. 
While I appreciate Mr G has health conditions, I dont think this request is unfair on him. Ive 
seen he has played an active role in past inspections so I think he would be able to give 
instructions to a firm to undertake such an inspection. However, if there was a cost involved 
in a company providing a quote, then I would ask BPF to cover that.
So, I think BPF has acted fairly in settling the conservatory claim under section 75 and 
requesting Mr G to provide further information before proceeding with his claim for the 
windows and doors.
Compensation
Mr G says he believes further compensation would be fair due to BPFs decision to only 
conclude his claim in respect of the conservatory. But for the reasons given above Im 
satisfied it hasnt acted fairly in reaching that conclusion. 
I agree Mr G hasnt received the service he should have reasonably been able to expect 
from BPF. Ive also seen that his health condition would have led him to find all of this very 
distressing. However, BPF has paid a total of £1,600 to Mr G as compensation for its 
handling of his claims and so has recognised it had failed Mr G at times when dealing with 
his case.
I appreciate this matter has taken a considerable amount of time and as yet is still not fully 
resolved. But I accept that some of the delays were outside of BPFs control though some 
werent, such as not returning calls when they said they would be or not answering his 
correspondence. I think the compensation paid to Mr G has been fair and reasonable and I 
wont ask BPF to increase that.
Consequential losses
Mr G complained to the retailer that its workers had damaged some of his property while 
undertaking the installations. The retailer asked Mr G to provide receipts for the items that 
needed replacement and agreed to pay him £323.44 to cover various items. Ive seen that 
this payment was not then made because Mr Gs account had an outstanding balance at the 
time. The retailer then went into administration and this payment was never made.
Mr G has requested that he be reimbursed for other items in addition to those the retailer 
had agreed to pay for, but Ive not seen that there is any evidence the retailer had accepted 
responsibility for these additional items. And without that evidence, I think it would be unfair 
for me to ask BPF to reimburse Mr G for all the things he says were damaged by the 
installation of the conservatory and windows and doors.
However, I think it would be fair for BFP to pay Mr G the original amount that had been 
agreed by the retailer and Ive seen that BPF has agreed to do so.
For the reasons set out above, and Im sorry this will be of disappointment to Mr G, Im not 
going to uphold his complaint that BPF should settle his claim about the installation of the 
windows and doors in the same way it has resolved his claim about the conservatory. But I 
agree BPF should pay his claim for additional damages that the retailer had agreed to pay.
Putting things right
Im asking BPF to do the following:Pay Mr G £323.44 for the costs of the consequential losses that the retailer agreed to 
reimburse him together with interest at the annual rate of 8% from the date the 
retailer had agreed to pay (March 2018) until the date of settlement.
Im also asking BPF that should the company requested by Mr G to provide a quote for the 
rectification work for the windows and doors charge a fee for the provision of that quote then 
it will reimburse that amount to Mr G once provided with an invoice. This will not apply if the 
company operates a system of refunding the money if subsequently awarded the contract.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Mr G s complaint. Im asking 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to do the 
following:
Pay Mr G £323.44 for the costs of the consequential losses that the retailer agreed to 
reimburse him together with interest at the annual rate of 8% from the date the 
retailer had agreed to pay (March 2018) until the date of settlement.
Im also asking Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance 
that should the company requested by Mr G to provide a quote for the rectification work for 
the windows and doors charge a fee for the provision of that quote, then it will reimburse that 
amount to Mr G once provided with an invoice. This will not apply if the company operates a 
system of refunding the money if subsequently awarded the contract.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman