DRN-2966826
The complaint
Mr L says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr L bought the policy in 1995, at the same time he took out a credit card. It covered his 
card in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
I sent Mr L and Barclays a provisional decision on 27 July 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Ls credit card application had a section for PPI. It offered two options to choose from: 
one to buy PPI and one to turn it down. The option to buy PPI was ticked, the option to turn it 
down was left blank, and Mr L signed the form to confirm his choices. Further, it looks like 
Mr L applied for his card by post, so he wouldve done this in his own time and without any 
potential pressure from a salesperson. So I think that Barclays made Mr L aware he had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can 
understand if he no longer remembers doing so after so many years.
Barclays didnt give Mr L tailored advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to check 
whether it was right for him. They did have to give Mr L enough information to decide for 
himself whether the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information Barclays gave Mr L about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr L chose to take out the policy, which indicates he 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was significantly affected by any of the policys main exclusions or 
limitations. And the PPI would have paid out on top of his work benefits and offered him 
more comprehensive cover, such as for when his benefits reduced to just a fraction of his 
normal pay. So the policy could have been useful for Mr L in case something went wrong. 
And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr L could cancel it at any time without 
a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put him off 
taking it out.
Lastly, Mr L mentioned that he had another policy which was found to have been mis-sold, 
and I completely understand why he raised this. But different policies worked in different 
ways, were suitable in different circumstances, were sold using different methods at different 
times, and so on. So while some policies were mis-sold, others were not. We look at each 
case on its individual merits, and Ive explained above why I have not found this particular 
policy to have been mis-sold. And to clarify, each PPI policy only covered its respective 
finance agreement  so if Mr L had two different policies covering two different finance 
agreements, they would not have overlapped and so he would not have been paying double 
in the way his representative has suggested.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
24 August 2021. But neither Mr L nor Barclays sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think this particular policy 
was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman