DRN-2417666
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the way the Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) handled a claim on her travel 
insurance policy.
For ease of reference, any reference to Lloyds also includes its agents.
What happened
Miss C was volunteering abroad. She was covered under the travel policy for the 
organisation she worked for. Whilst abroad, Miss C was told she needed a colposcopy. So 
she submitted a claim with Lloyds. 
Following the colposcopy, Miss Cs treating doctor then recommend she had a cone biopsy 
due to some irregularities. Miss C expressed concerns about this to Lloyds because it wasnt 
the preferred treatment used in the UK, so she was advised to speak with her GP in the UK 
for a second opinion. The GP told Miss C to return to the UK for a different procedure.
Lloyds looked into both the procedure abroad and in the UK, before agreeing to cover Miss 
Cs repatriation costs back to the UK. Miss C complains that had she not raised concerns 
about the risks of undergoing a cone biopsy, she may have been led to undertake this 
different treatment abroad. 
When Miss C returned to the UK she submitted her expenses but Lloyds declined to cover 
her fuel and daily livings costs. Then when settling Miss Cs claim Lloyds made an error and 
underpaid Miss C for her accommodation costs. This was quickly rectified, and Lloyds have 
offered £150 compensation to acknowledge their error and the delay in paying the claim.
Miss C remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into what had happened. She didnt think it was fair to direct Lloyds to cover any 
additional costs. And she didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything further to put things right. 
She acknowledged there was poor service and delay toward the end of the claim and 
settlement. But she thought the compensation offered was reasonable. 
Miss C didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary she 
said: 
She shouldve been told earlier her food costs wouldnt be covered 
Her travel costs are reasonable as she saved the insurer money by staying at family 
accommodation
She didnt think £150 wasnt fair compensation for the poor service she received. And 
she again expressed concern that Lloyds wouldve substantially underpaid if she 
hadnt noticed the error in their initial settlement
So the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Miss C that Ive read and considered all her detailed representations. But I 
wont be addressing every point she has been raised.  Ill only refer to the points which I 
think are central to my findings. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Lloyds have a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they should give a policyholder reasonable guidance when 
making a claim. 
The policy terms and conditions say Lloyds will pay medical expenses and emergency 
travel expenses which are necessarily incurred 
Emergency travel expenses are defined as the additional costs incurred on an insured 
journeyof travel, accommodation, rescue and repatriation 
Miss C is unhappy that her basic living costs such as food have been declined. But 
the emergency travel expenses definition set out above doesnt include food costs. I 
dont think Lloyds have acted unfairly by applying this term because Miss C wouldve 
always incurred food costs, irrespective of her claim. Its reasonable to expect these 
types of costs to always be Miss Cs responsibility. 
Miss C said she shouldve been told her daily living costs wouldnt be covered after 
she listed these costs in a comparison table she sent to Lloyds when deciding on the 
location of her treatment. But I dont think the absence of a response from Lloyds 
means it was reasonable for Miss C to assume these costs would be covered. I note 
Lloyds had confirmed all reasonable costs for accommodation and transport would 
be covered, and other costs could be presented for their consideration. So, I dont 
think Lloyds misled Miss C in relation to food costs.
I can see the time and effort taken by Miss C to provide her receipts for dinners and 
food shops in clear way. But its important to note Lloyds are entitled to ensure they 
only cover valid expenses under the policy, so I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Lloyds to ask Miss C to provide receipts for their consideration
Its not in dispute that Miss C saved Lloyds money by deciding to stay in family 
accommodation. But I would expect either party in a claim to mitigate and minimise 
losses wherever possible. So, it doesnt automatically follow that Lloyds should pay 
the fuel costs to Miss Cs chosen location, just because alternative accommodation 
wouldve been more expensive. 
Miss C has told us Lloyds were aware she was a volunteer and therefore had a lack 
of available funds, but it still said she had to pay upfront and claim the costs back. 
However, on 29 March I can also see Miss C told Lloyds she was able to borrow the 
money from home to book her flights and accommodation and would claim it back. 
So, Im not persuaded Lloyds was made aware Miss C was in a difficult financial 
position.   
Miss C complains that had she not raised concerns about the risks of undergoing a 
cone biopsy, she may have been led to undertake this treatment abroad. But I think it 
was reasonable for the insurer to explore all the options for treatment that had been 
medically advised. And Lloyds cant be held responsible for the advice of the treating 
doctor. In any event Im pleased to see Lloyds agreed to cover Miss Cs repatriation 
costs back to the UK and she received the treatment she wanted. I can see Miss C remains unhappy with the error Lloyds made in their initial 
settlement figure in relation to accommodation costs. But I can see this was rectified 
as soon as Miss C flagged it and Lloyds added 8% interest to compensate for Miss C 
being without those funds. So, I think this is a fair and prompt remedy. 
I appreciate Miss Cs concerns about what may have happened if she hadnt noticed 
the error, but I cant consider hypotheticals. I must look at what actually happened 
and the impact this had. 
Ive taken into account everything Miss C has said about Lloyds poor claims 
handling. I agree there were occasions where Lloyds failed to respond to Miss C and 
communication couldve been quicker and clearer throughout both the claims and 
subsequent complaint process. But, I think the £150 compensation fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Miss C by the poor service and communication 
she received from Lloyds.  So overall, Im satisfied Lloyds handled Miss Cs claim 
reasonably.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman