DRN-1909767
The complaint
Mr K complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank has unfairly 
recorded a marker at CIFAS the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr K applied for a credit card from Tesco Bank which was declined. He complained that 
Tesco Bank had added the marker. It told him that it couldnt go into the specifics. Mr K 
obtained an extract of the information reported to CIFAS which set out the reason why the 
fraud marker had been added. And he remained unhappy about this as he said it was 
incorrect.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he was 
satisfied that the information Mr K had provided on his application was inconsistent with 
checks Tesco Bank had made. So, it had grounds to apply the marker.
Mr K didnt agree and said that wed been unfair and biased and hadnt carried out a proper 
investigation. The CIFAS marker was affecting his ability to get an account elsewhere and 
obtain employment or be paid benefits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Tesco Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Ive looked at all the information thats been provided by Tesco Bank. Its documented that it 
spoke to Mr K about his application at the time to confirm that all the details were correct and 
complete. Mr K has provided to the service a summary of his clear credit score from one 
provider and a copy of his passport confirming his identity. 
Our investigator has explained to Mr K that Tesco Bank will make a wide range of checks 
about the information in the application and as CIFAS stated in response to Mr K about any 
other addresses hes been connected with. I wouldnt expect Tesco Bank to disclose that 
information to him. Ive carried out an independent review of all the information and the 
comments made by Mr K. Im afraid having done so Im satisfied that Tesco Bank had 
grounds to meet the high bar for adding the CIFAS marker as it decided that Mr K hadnt 
disclosed relevant information to his application for a credit card.
So, I know Mr K is going to be disappointed when I say that I wont be asking Tesco Bank to 
do anything given what hes said about the impact the marker is having for him.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman