DRN-3634774
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to protect her from a scam.
Mrs R is being represented by a claims management company but for ease of reading Ill 
refer to Mrs R in my decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In March 2021 Mrs R was contacted by a merchant and asked to make purchases of 
cosmetic goods via a legitimate money remittance business. Mrs R then sent around £6,482 
over three days to the legitimate money remittance business with the payments ranging from 
around £260 to £1,007. 
Mrs R raised a claim with Barclays and asked for it to return her money. After considering 
the claim Barclays decided not to provide a refund. It said the payments werent unusual and 
the money remittance business successfully defended the chargeback. 
Mrs R remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the payments were 
made to a legitimate money remittance business and when Barclays attempted a 
chargeback the merchant successfully defended it. The investigator added that he didnt 
think the payments were particularly unusual for Mrs Rs account so he wouldnt have 
expected Barclays to intervene. 
Mrs R disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said she made ten 
payments over three days which was unusual for her account. So, Barclays shouldve done 
more to stop the scam.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs R feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Under regulations and in accordance with Mrs Rs general account terms and conditions, 
Barclays should execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. The starting 
position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer even where they have 
been tricked into making that payment, for example as part of a scam. There is no dispute 
here that Mrs R authorised the payments. And simply being the victim of a scam doesnt 
automatically entitle Mrs R to a refund. 
So for me to uphold this complaint and direct Barclays to pay Mrs Rs losses Id need to be 
persuaded that Barclays actions at the time of processing the payments reasonably resulted 
in her loss or it has treated her unfairly when assisting with the recovery of those funds.
So, Ive reviewed the statements Barclays has provided of Mrs Rs accounts. Ive seen that 
she generally maintained a healthy balance on the account and that she had various 
genuine payments to the same money remittance business which ranged from £50 to £876. 
There are also payments of £1,790 on 18 February 2021 and £1791.41 the following day. I 
believe this established a pattern of spending on her account where it wasnt unusual for her 
to send larger payments from time to time. 
So, like the Investigator, Im satisfied the transactions wouldnt have appeared particularly 
unusual or suspicious to Barclays and I dont think there were sufficient grounds for it to 
have intervened and/or done more at the point the payments were processed. And as the 
payments were made using Mrs Rs debit card Barclays only option to try to recover Mrs Rs 
funds was through chargeback which would be subject to the relevant scheme rules.
Recovery
While I think that the merchant involved here was likely operating a scam at the time of 
Mrs Rs payments, the chargeback scheme rules dont automatically entitle her to a refund 
based on these circumstances. 
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme run by card issuers whereby the card 
scheme operator  Visa in this case  will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between a 
merchant (the legitimate money remittance business) and a cardholder if it cant be resolved 
between them. 
There are rules to the scheme  set by the card scheme operator  which means that there 
are only limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback 
to be considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply to when a chargeback 
can be raised by the card issuer.
Mrs R already held an account with the remittance business and sent the money from her 
account with Barclays to her account with the remittance business. So, it appears that the 
money that was sent to the money remittance business was then forwarded to the 
merchants as per Mrs Rs instructions. I appreciate Mrs R was being manipulated by another 
merchant to send the money. But for the purpose of the chargeback scheme the money 
remittance business provided the service it was paid for. I therefore dont find Barclays was 
acting unfairly or unreasonably when not pursuing chargebacks that didnt have any 
reasonable prospect of success.  
Its unfortunate Mrs R has fallen victim to a scam. Despite my natural sympathy for the 
situation in which she finds herself, Im not persuaded Barclays has done anything wrong, so 
I wont be asking it to reimburse the lost money nor do I make any other award against it. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 Mark Dobson
Ombudsman