DRN-3961043
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt give him sufficient information 
about his term assurance policies.
What happened
Mr P had two decreasing term assurance policies with Aviva. The policies covered mortgage 
lending. Mr Ps mortgage was redeemed in 2006, but his policies continued. In 2015, Mr P 
spoke to Aviva to tell it he didnt have his original policy documents and that his address had 
changed. Aviva wrote to Mr P with information about his policy, what he would have to do in 
the event of a claim and updated his address.
Mr P was sent letters in 2019 and 2021 telling him his term assurance was coming to an 
end. It was at this point he complained. He said he didnt understand that these policies 
wouldnt pay out and that he shouldve been told to cancel them when his mortgage was 
redeemed, or at the latest when he contacted Aviva in 2015.
Our Investigator didnt feel the complaint should be upheld. He explained that it was Mr Ps 
responsibility to cancel his term assurance. He said the terms of the policy made it clear that 
the policy wouldnt have a cash-in value and Aviva wasnt obliged to give Mr P any advice 
about what to do with it. He said the phone call in 2015 was about his change of address 
and policy documents and Aviva did what wed expect in relation to that.
Mr P disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to issue a decision. He continued to explain 
he felt that the policies werent explained and were mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our Investigator for similar reasons. Im not upholding this 
complaint. I do appreciate Mr P feels very strongly about this complaint, and Ive listened to 
his call with our Investigator to ensure Ive understood his complaint in detail. The length of 
this decision reflects the informal nature of this service. I want to point out that this decision 
is in relation to Aviva  the policy provider and not the business that sold these policies. As 
Aviva didnt sell this policy to Mr P, I havent considered whether it was mis-sold.
Mr P has said he felt the policy wouldve paid something out at the end of the term, he 
wasnt aware that it had no cash in value. Avivas responsibility as policy provider is to 
provide documents that are clear, fair and not misleading and to administer the policy in line 
with the terms. Im satisfied the policies Mr P had with Aviva were both term assurance 
polices and had no cash in value at any point. So Aviva hasnt done anything wrong in telling 
Mr P that the policy wasnt due to pay out to him after it ended. Mr Ps main complaint is that 
he wasnt aware the policy wouldnt pay out at the end of the term  but it wouldve been for 
the firm that sold him the policies to explain how the policy worked  and this has been dealt 
with in a separate complaint. The policy documents from Aviva show that the policy is for a 
set term and has no cash in value.
Mr P says the policies was lost  but Im satisfied the policies remained in existence 
throughout the term. It appears from the system notes that Mr P told Aviva the documents 
were lost in a flood. In any event Im satisfied Aviva provided Mr P with the documents to 
show it accepted the applications in 1999 and 2001, and it provided a copy of the schedule 
which sets out the type of policy, length, cost, sum assured and that there is no cash in 
value. Ive not seen anything to suggest Aviva hasnt provided the information it was obliged 
to, or that it has administered the policies incorrectly.
Aviva wasnt obliged to tell Mr P when to cancel his policies, or give him any advice relating 
to them. Whilst the policies were taken out for mortgage protection, it wouldnt be for Aviva to 
cancel them or even be aware of when Mr Ps mortgage was redeemed.
So, whilst I can understand Mr Ps strength of feeling about this issue, I hope Ive explained 
why Aviva hasnt done anything wrong in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman