DRN-3329580
The complaint
Mr L complains that Cabot Credit Management Limited trading as Cabot Financial (Europe) 
Limited (Cabot) should pay him directly an amount that was refunded to his credit card for 
interest, fees and charges that had been incorrectly applied. 
What happened
Mr L had a balance on his credit card with a business I will refer to as N which was sold to 
Cabot in late 2018. 
The balance on the credit card was discharged under a Debt Relief Order (DRO) which was 
granted in January 2020 and ended a year later. 
In March 2021, N wrote to Mr L to say that it had carried out a review of its handling of his 
account and felt there were times when it shouldnt have offered to increase his overdraft 
limit. As a result, N said it had credited a refund of just over £230 to his account that would 
be transferred to Cabot to reduce his outstanding balance.
Mr L said that as the debt had been settled under the DRO, Cabot should pay him the 
refunded amount. After he complained, Cabot contacted N which confirmed that the amount 
should be used to reduce the balance rather than being paid to Mr L.
The investigator didnt think that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. She thought Cabot had 
dealt with things fairly and didnt consider the refund should be paid to Mr L.
Mr L was unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and asked for an ombudsman to 
consider it further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr L feels he should receive the refund rather than it be applied to a 
debt he was no longer liable to repay, but I dont agree. Had N discovered the error before or 
at the time it sold the debt to Cabot, it wouldve reduced the amount Mr L owed. It wouldnt 
have been money directly paid out to him. 
This wasnt money that Mr L had paid incorrectly and so wouldve been refunded to him  it 
was more that interest, fees and charges had been incorrectly added to his balance, 
increasing the amount he owed. He wouldve still had an outstanding balance had these 
charges not been originally included by N. And that balance has now been discharged under 
the DRO.
Overall, Im satisfied that Cabot responded reasonably to Mr Ls concerns by approaching N 
for further information. N confirmed that the amount should be used to reduce the balance 
that Mr L owed. 
Based on what N told Cabot, I cant find that Cabot acted unfairly or that it should be 
required to make a payment to Mr L. Im sorry if this is likely to come as a disappointment to 
him.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman