DRN-1372082
 
The complaint
Mr N complains about late payment markers put on his credit reference file by Barclays Bank 
UK PLC.   
What happened
Mr N has a credit card account with Barclays. 
Their records say that Mr N made late payments in June and July 2019. And on the second 
occasion, they reported a late payment to the credit reference agencies (CRAs).
Mr N says his payments have been made on time and the information reported to the 
CRAs is inaccurate.
And he says Barclays misled him when he called them to discuss the payments. He says he 
was told the allegedly late payments would not be reported.
Mr N complained to Barclays and subsequently to us. Our investigator looked into it and 
thought Barclays had done nothing wrong.
Mr N disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The account statement sent to Mr N in May 2019 required a minimum payment to be made 
by a particular date in June. Mr N didn't make a payment until several days after that 
deadline. Given that was the first late payment and was made within days of the deadline, 
Barclays decided not to report a late payment to the CRAs.
The June statement required a minimum payment by a date in July. Again, Mr N made a 
payment after the deadline. And at this point Barclays reported the late payment to the 
CRAs.
I'm satisfied that, in both cases, Mr N's payments were late. The terms and conditions 
applying to Mr N's account were clear that late payments would be reported to the CRAs.
So, I can't see that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably in any way in reporting the 
late payments.
In terms of Mr N's calls to Barclays, I agree that he was told the late payment marker 
wouldn't appear on his credit reference file. But the whole conversation took place on the 
basis that he had in fact paid on time - which Mr N told Barclays agent at the start of the call.In any case, the conversations took place after the payments had been made late. They 
wouldn't in any way change the fact that the payments were late. And given that they were, 
Barclays were obliged to report that fact accurately to the CRAs.
In summary, I agree with our investigator. Barclays have done nothing wrong in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr N's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman