DRN-3202987
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) acted unfairly by continuing to 
apply charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Ms S complained to Santander that the fees it applied to her account caused her financial 
difficulty. Santander says the charges were applied correctly in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account and didnt uphold the complaint. And as Ms S was dissatisfied she 
referred the complaint to our service.
Ms Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Santander 
ought to have realised that Ms S was experiencing financial difficulty by 1 May 2018 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Santander didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Santander acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Ms Ss 
overdraft from 1 May 2018. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Ms S was in no 
position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, it was clear that Ms S was having difficulty managing her money. Ms Ss 
statements show that she had a number of returned direct debits or paid item fees, and was 
clearly using their overdraft to make ends meet as she was reliant on it to meet essential 
payments. In these circumstances, it ought to have been apparent that Ms S was at a 
significant risk of experiencing financial difficulty and so should have been treated with 
forbearance rather than having had even more interest, fees and charges added to her 
overdraft. 
Ms S ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Santander 
didnt treat Ms S fairly and she lost out because of what Santander did wrong. And this 
means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Ss complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Ms Ss current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from 1 May 2018 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Ms S to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Ms S is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Santander to reach 
a suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information 
on Ms Ss credit file, Santander should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft from 1 May 
2018. Santander can also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Ms S over 
their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Ms S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Ms Ss credit file. 
Santander can also reduce Ms Ss overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ss complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman