DRN-4052916
The complaint
Mr B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) have increased the 
interest rate on his credit card unfairly.
What happened
Mr B says he has been subjected to an interest rate rise by Amex and his minimum 
repayments have been increased. Mr B says he received a letter from Amex mentioning 
previous correspondence they sent him about requiring personal information, but he says he 
never got a letter prior to this and then they blocked his account. He says Amex havent 
replied to his letters. Mr B made a complaint to Amex.
Amex partially upheld Mr Bs complaint and said they credited £50 to his account. They said 
due to an error they increased his interest incorrectly, without advising him of the change. 
They said £131.42 was refunded to him on 8 November 2022 due to this. Amex said they 
wrote to Mr B on several occasions, and they can confirm they have a regulatory obligation 
to gather information about their customers personal information and finances to ensure they 
are lending responsibly. They said if this was not provided when they request it then they 
reserve the right to suspend his account or end his agreement as stated in the terms and 
conditions. Mr B brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said the change of interest is a 
commercial decision and Amex advises they can change the interest rate as per the terms of 
the agreement. He said Amex evidenced theyd received only one letter from Mr B and 
without anything else to show theyve received other letters from Mr B, then he couldnt say 
they made an error by not acting on the letter contents. Our investigator said Know Your 
Customer (KYC) checks are a regulatory requirement and Amex have the right to ask 
questions and suspend the card if they remain unanswered. The block was removed after Mr 
B rung them up. 
Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that the points our 
investigator had addressed were only his additional points he had raised, and it was his 
original complaint that is important and requires a resolution. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr B wants me to look into his original complaint as that is important and 
requires a resolution. But here, Im only able to give an outcome to Mr B about the complaint 
points which he raised under this complaint reference  the interest rate rise without 
notification from Amex and his minimum payments rising as a result of this, Amex ignoring 
the letters Mr B sent them and them blocking his account. So I am unable to comment on the 
original complaint points of the initial complaint Mr B had previously brought to our service 
under a different reference number.
Ive looked at the credit agreement that Mr B and Amex entered into. Here, this explains in 
section 2.2 that the interest rate on the account is comprised of a simple rate which moves in 
line with the Bank of England Base Rate (base rate) and a personal rate. The credit 
agreement shows that changes in the base rate will be applied to the account from the day 
after his next statement. But the credit agreement also states they can change the personal 
element of the interest rate in certain circumstances. The credit agreement shows that if 
Amex are increasing the interest due to the base rate then they will let their customers know 
about this on their website and in the national press. They will also let Mr B know about this 
on his monthly statement before the change takes effect.
The credit agreement shows that if they are increasing the interest rate of the personal rate 
then hell get at least 60 days advance notice of the change. So Im satisfied that Amex are 
able to increase the interest rate on this account in certain circumstances. But here, Amex 
have said that due to an error, they increased his interest incorrectly, as they didnt advise 
him of the change. To resolve this, Amex refunded £131.42 of interest and credited £50 to 
his account, which Im satisfied is proportionate if they did not give him the required notice. 
But Mr B should be aware that Amex are able to increase the interest rate in the future 
provided they act in line with the credit agreement. If his interest rate increases, then 
naturally its likely his minimum repayments would increase (based on how the credit 
agreement shows Amex calculates the minimum repayment).  
Ive considered what Mr B has said about Amex ignoring the letters he sent them. I asked Mr 
B how he sent the letters, for example whether these were by tracked delivery. But I did not 
receive a response from Mr B by the date I asked for a response, so Im unable to determine 
how these were sent. So I asked Amex if they could provide system evidence of the letters 
they received from Mr B. I can see from the evidence provided that they received two letters 
from Mr B. One was on 1 November 2022, which was in response to their KYC letter dated 
14 October 2022. This letter shows handwriting from Mr B informing them that he didnt 
know what they were referring to as he hadnt received any requests from them. Then 
another letter was sent from Amex dated 16 November 2022, which Mr B sent them a copy 
of this letter and he wrote on the letter that he had only received this on 12 December 2022 
and the information had already been given, his account was blocked, and a complaint had 
been raised. Amexs system shows they received this from Mr B on 3 January 2023.
Im not persuaded that Amex ignored the two letters Mr B sent here, as they responded with 
another KYC letter after Mr Bs initial letter that they received and as the other letter 
mentioned his complaint they responded to this as part of his complaint. It may be that Mr B 
had sent Amex further letters, which they didnt receive, but I cant hold them responsible for 
any issues with the postal system.
Ive considered what Mr B has said about the block on his account. Hes said he didnt 
receive prior correspondence to the 14 October 2022 letter. But Amexs system shows they 
sent the first KYC correspondence on 14 September 2022. Im satisfied that he did receive 
the follow up letter dated 14 October 2022. This letter asks him to update the information 
that they hold about him. But he didnt do this. The letter says that once this is complete then 
he will be able to continue to enjoy all of the benefits of his Amex membership. The following 
letter asks him to contact Amex. It appears that due to postal delays, Mr B received this 
letter after his account had already been blocked. 
The credit agreement shows that Amex can suspend an account in certain circumstances 
such as if they reasonably consider that by allowing the use of an account or feature they 
might breach a law, regulation, code or other obligation. Amex would be required to ensure 
the KYC information of a customer is up to date. So when Mr B didnt update his details  
even if they had not changed, then Amex took the action the credit agreement allowed them 
to do. So I cant say they did anything wrong here. So it follows I dont require Amex to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman