DRN-4436741
The complaint
Ms B complains that she was mis sold a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) to acquire a car. 
What happened
Ms B was looking to acquire a car in late 2018. She has told us that she was in a position to 
acquire the car in cash, but that she was persuaded to take out a hire purchase agreement 
over a four year period instead. Ms B has told us that a salesperson advised her not to buy 
the car in cash and said it was better not to put all her capital into the car. 
Ms B has told us that the salesperson went on to say that at the end of the four years, if 
there was any additional capital value in the car, it would be returned to her once she 
returned the car.   
When she reached the end of the agreement, she realised that any additional value in the 
car would only be hers if she either part exchanged the car for another vehicle or made the 
final balloon payment to own the car. 
She complained to MBFS, but they didnt uphold the complaint. They said they couldnt 
comment on any individual conversations held with a member of staff at the dealership 
which they werent party to, but having reviewed the agreement, they were satisfied that it 
explained the process correctly, and as this was the record of what had been agreed 
between the parties, they were satisfied that nothing wrong had occurred.   
Unhappy with this, Ms B brought her complaint to our service. An investigator here 
investigated it and did not uphold it. They said that as there was no record of the specifics 
discussed when the agreement was taken out, they felt that on the balance of probability, 
looking at the paperwork that had been signed, they werent persuaded that any mis sale 
had occurred. 
Ms B wasnt happy with this and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision. She 
said that making a decision on the balance of probabilities wasnt fair, it should be down to 
the parties to provide evidence, and she felt that she didnt think the dealership could provide 
evidence of a compliant method of offering finance agreements. She didnt feel the business 
had provided us with evidence that they gave her the correct options at the time.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
There are two parts to the complaint that I will answer. The first is where Ms B has said that 
she was advised not to buy the car for cash, but to take finance out. The second is about the 
fact Ms B says she was told she would get any excess value in the car returned to her when 
the agreement finished. 
As has been previously discussed, there is no written or recorded evidence of the 
conversations which took place at the dealership. As such, my role is to look at the evidence 
that is available, consider Ms Bs testimony, and come to a conclusion as to what is most 
likely to have happened. 
Ms B says it should be the businesss responsibility to provide evidence of these things, but 
Im satisfied that the finance agreement she signed up for is evidence of the agreement 
reached. I also recognise that there was likely a terms of business document or similar that 
was given to Ms B, which would have explained the scope of the salespersons advice. This 
hasnt been provided by MBFS but its likely that it will have been provided at the time back 
in 2018. But even if it wasnt, Im satisfied that paperwork has been provided which confirms 
the details of the agreement Ms B signed up to. 
Theres no corroborating evidence to show anyone at the car dealership gave Ms B advice 
about whether to buy the car in cash, or to take a finance agreement to fund some of the 
cost. The salesperson would not be authorised to provide this kind of advice; they would 
take a customers preferences for whether they want to pay a deposit, and how much. Part 
of the finance application process would likely just include asking how much deposit a 
consumer would like to put down. 
They might discuss whether any discount is available for purchasing in cash or on finance. 
But no salesperson would be able to give advice around whether a consumer was better to 
buy a car cash or on finance. Thats a complicated piece of advice, probably only for a 
financial advisor to work out whether money in the bank is better than paying interest on a 
finance agreement. 
Ive gone on to think about the likelihood of this conversation occurring in 2018. Returns on 
capital held in the bank or similar were very low still at that time as interest rates were very 
low. Ms B has told us she had the funds available to buy the car in cash, so would likely 
know this. The finance agreement here which was provided to Ms B shows an interest rate 
chargeable of 5.95% fixed, 6.1% APR. 
If there was a conversation about paying cash or taking the car on finance, Im not 
persuaded that any advice would have been given by the salesperson about this. The 
paperwork provided clearly shows the interest rate of the finance, and the application 
process for the finance would have likely just involved Ms B being asked what deposit she 
wanted to put down. 
Im not persuaded that any advice to take out finance instead of paying cash would have 
happened, and I also dont see any reason why Ms B would have accepted that kind of 
advice if it was offered. The paperwork she signed clearly shows the interest rate being 
charged on the agreement for four years, and the total amount payable, so she can see the 
cost of the finance compared to the option she says she had to just pay cash for the car. 
Moving on, I have next considered the issue about Ms B saying that she was told by the 
salesperson that she would get any additional value of the car paid back to her when the 
agreement ended, compared to the final balloon payment which was outstanding.  Again, Im not persuaded that this conversation is likely to have happened. The paperwork 
provided to Ms B in the form of her finance agreement makes no mention of this and 
confirms what the balloon payment would be at the end, titled Optional Purchase payment. 
This is further explained in the Duration and repayments section. There is no mention of 
any additional money being returned to a consumer. 
The investigator here when they looked at the case explained that it might be that a 
salesperson had described a situation where this additional value would benefit the 
consumer in a part exchange scenario, or if they paid the optional purchase payment so they 
owned the car that had a higher value than the optional purchase payment. This is possible, 
but again, we dont know details of the conversation. 
The finance agreement was provided to Ms B at the time, to allow her to check she 
understood all the terms and detail of the agreement and wanted to proceed. Its a 
customers responsibility to read this agreement before signing it, to make sure it reflects the 
agreement they believe they are signing up for. 
If Ms B felt that she was going to get back some money if the car held its value well and was 
worth more than the balloon payment, Id have expected her to look for the section of the 
agreement explaining this, to make sure she understood it correctly and it was all agreed. 
Im not persuaded that Ms B was told at the interview in 2018 that she would just receive 
back any additional value in the car at the end of the agreement. But even if she had been, 
MBFS have provided comprehensive details of the agreement in the paperwork which 
followed to allow her to ensure she understood it. This paperwork once read would provide 
the correct information, which would serve to correct any misunderstanding she may have 
had. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Ms B was wrongly advised to take out finance for the car 
rather than buying it in cash. Neither party can provide any evidence about this, and Im not 
persuaded that Ms B would have taken out this finance agreement without wanting to pay 
part cash as a deposit and put some of the cost on finance. Im also not persuaded that she 
was given any wrong advice about the car value at the end of the agreement and how she 
might benefit from that. 
I empathise with any misunderstanding here, but Im satisfied that MBFS provided Ms B with 
all the correct information, and Ive seen no evidence of any mis sale. I wont be asking them 
to do any more.  
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman