DRN-3569358
The complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund payments from his account 
that he didnt make.
What happened
Mr P disputes payments made from his account between 20 August and 1 September 2016. 
He says he was living abroad then but the payments were made in this country. And that as 
he thought hed paid off his overdraft and his account had been closed hed thrown his card 
in the bin abroad. He says he found out what happened when he was contacted by debt 
collectors when he returned to this country. And so, he complained to NatWest in 2021 
saying he wasnt responsible for this debt which is now over £7,000 with charges.
NatWest said it wouldnt be refunding the money.  Mr P told it that the last genuine payment 
he made on his account was a cash withdrawal abroad on 30 June 2016. There was no 
clear explanation of how an opportunistic fraudster was able to obtain both his card and PIN, 
travel back to this country and then start using it for cash withdrawals and payments. The 
resulting overdraft hadnt been repaid and the debt was sold and passed to a third party in 
2019.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He set out the disputed 
cash withdrawals. He said that NatWest had no evidence that Mr P tried to close his 
account. And that after the withdrawal on 30 June 2016 the account was again overdrawn. 
So, he wouldnt have been able to close this account with an overdraft. And if he had 
contacted NatWest about closing the account it wouldnt have only said write a letter. Hed 
have been required to pay that overdraft off too.
Our investigator said he was satisfied that the cash withdrawals would have needed both   
Mr Ps card and PIN. There was no realistic explanation for how an unknown third party both 
would have found Mr Ps card  which he says was thrown in the bin  and found out his PIN 
and then travelled to the UK to use it. He thought that the only plausible explanations were 
either that Mr P had used the card himself or hed allowed someone else known to him to do 
so.
Mr P didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said he was innocent apart 
from his mistake over the withdrawal on 30 June 2016 that caused an overdraft. The money 
was taken without his consent and knowledge. NatWest knew he was abroad, and the 
payments should have been noticed and stopped. He did call and wasnt told at the time his 
account was overdrawn. He cant explain how his card was used here after that. He is 
prepared to pay off the overdraft and interest linked to the payment he made. But he had no 
idea about the rest of the money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. And 
I note the limitations in what Mr P and NatWest may now reasonably have as evidence.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2009 in considering this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its not 
enough for it just to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. Where credit is involved, as 
is the case here on an overdraft, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies and it states that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card.  
So, Ive thought about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- Whats the most likely explanation of how the card and PIN were used?
- Did Mr P authorise these payments which might have involved allowing someone else to 
use his card?
The payments in dispute are largely ones at cash machines as our investigator detailed. And 
as NatWest refers to there were also two smaller point of sale type payments. Given the time 
that has passed the information about them is now limited and these were only disputed 
after some five years. So, I wouldnt reasonably expect to see an authorisation log from 
NatWest for the card involved. But Im satisfied that the cash withdrawals would have 
needed both the card and PIN. And the two point of sale payments refer to the card number 
ending in 1271 which was the one used for the withdrawals made by Mr P abroad. Im 
satisfied that all the payments were authenticated.
The issue is how the payments came to be made. I note from the bank statement on the 
account that Mr P had made a cash withdrawal abroad on 29 May 2016 using card ending 
1271 and he made further ones. On 15 June 2016 he received a credit to his account for 
£6,200 with a reference including the word holiday. As he says that paid off his then 
overdraft and I can see it left a small credit balance. Account charges and then the 
withdrawal he made abroad on 30 June 2016 took the account overdrawn again. Mr P says 
he sold his property at around that time and I can see that it is shown in publicly available 
information as being sold on 30 June 2016.
There was then a gap until the first disputed payment on 22 August 2016. Before that, he 
says he was in contact with NatWest about closing his account. And I agree with our 
investigator that it would have been a requirement to clear the overdraft. I cant see he took 
any steps to do this. And so, I dont see he could have reasonably thought his account would 
be closed. There is no record of him then changing his address at NatWest and the details of 
its collections activity for the borrowing still refers to his old address. So, I also dont see that 
NatWest knew he was permanently abroad at the time and should have stopped these 
payments for that reason as he states.
Mr P says he threw his card in the bin. He doesnt say he cut it up for example. He does 
accept that this card could then later have been used in this country. And there is no record 
of any other live card on the account and as I say the point of sale purchases were also 
made using these card details. 
It's up to him to provide anything he thinks supports his complaint. And he hasnt for 
example identified anyone with him abroad who could have taken the card. I think its highly 
unlikely an unknown third party in possession of the card would wait to use it. And in 
particular wouldnt attempt to use it before travelling back to this country. To be able to use 
the card in this way would mean that this person somehow was able to discover the PIN.   
Mr P hasnt identified any way someone could have known his PIN. Once the payments started they did involve daily use of the card up to it seems cash 
machine withdrawal limits. And combined with the payments all of his limit was quickly used. 
That is a pattern of use that it consistent with someone trying to take as much cash as 
quickly as possible. But as I say the time period before they did start and the fact that no 
attempt to use the card abroad was made is inconsistent with fraudulent use. In other words, 
the evidence supporting the use being fraudulent is mixed here.
Mr P says he can prove he was abroad at the time of the payments. He hasnt done so but I 
dont have reason to doubt that noting hed sold his property. But that doesnt rule out 
someone else using his card and PIN with his consent. Having balanced all the information 
here I think that the most likely explanation is that these payments were made with his 
consent. And so, I think it reasonable that he was held liable for them by NatWest and I 
wont be requiring it to do anything further. I appreciate he will be disappointed by this given 
what is at stake for him.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman