DRN-1350945
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (Trading as Post Office) didnt uphold a 
Section 75 claim in relation to unsatisfactory hotel rooms which he paid for using his 
debit card.
What happened
Mr K booked two hotel rooms through a third-party booking site. The total cost was £321.90, 
and Mr K paid using his Post Office credit card. Mr K said that he couldnt check into the 
hotel when he arrived, and the rooms were unsatisfactory. They were on different floors and 
one of the beds had broken springs.
Mr K complained to Post Office and made a claim under s75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Post Office declined the claim on the basis that the debtor/creditor supplier chain was broken 
as Mr K had booked the hotel rooms though a third party.
Mr K was unhappy that his claim was declined and said that he believes that the Post Office 
is responsible, and he booked the rooms as part of a package with flights and car hire.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Post Office hadnt done anything 
wrong in refusing the s75 claim. This was because any breach of contract in relation to the 
hotel rooms was by the hotel who were not a party to the card transaction. In these 
circumstances a Section 75 claim could not be upheld. 
Mr K didnt agree and replied to say in summary that he booked a package, so Ive been 
asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 sets out that a provider of credit can also be 
held responsible as well as the supplier if goods or services arent of satisfactory quality.
In this case, Mr K used the services of a third-party agent to book the hotel. Mr K didnt have 
a contract with the hotel (he would only have had a contract with the hotel if he had
booked his stay with it directly and paid it with his card).
A section 75 claim cant be made unless theres a contract between the cardholder and the 
business. In this case, the third-party agent has broken the contractual chain between Mr K 
and the hotel. So, the credit supplier cant be held jointly responsible for the quality of the 
hotel rooms.
Under package travel regulations that came into force in July 2018 then a travel agent may 
be responsible for the whole of the package. However, these regulations dont apply to Mr 
Ks booking as the hotel rooms were booked separately on the 26 November 2019 and the 
flights and car hire were booked later on 2 December 2019. So, I cant say that the booking 
was made as part of a package.
I dont doubt that Mr K did not have the hotel stay he was entitled to expect but for the 
reasons I have outlined, I am unable to say that Post Office did anything wrong in terms of 
the handling of his s75 claim for a refund.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman