DRN-3187689
The complaint
Miss V complains about Society of Lloyds handling of her claim under a residential flats 
insurance policy.
When I refer to Society of Lloyds Im including the underwriting syndicate that gave the 
cover under the policy.
What happened
Miss V claimed on a residential flats insurance policy with Society of Lloyds following 
damage to her flat from an escape of water. She says delays by Society of Lloyds in 
carrying out repairs caused her distress and inconvenience. 
Society of Lloyds accepted the service it gave Miss V during the handling of her claim fell 
short of what it expects and has paid Miss V £500 in compensation for the impact this has 
had on her.
Miss V wasnt happy with Society of Lloyds response and so brought her complaint to us. 
The investigator who looked at it didnt uphold it. She thought the compensation Society of 
Lloyds had paid Miss V recognised the impact its poor service had had on her. 
Miss V disagrees with our investigator. She would like compensation of £1,000. So Miss Vs 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Vs complaint. I think the compensation of 
£500 that Society of Lloyds has already paid Miss V is fair and reasonable, as Ill explain.
Both Miss V and Society of Lloyds accept the level of service Miss V got after she made her 
claim was unacceptable. I understand Miss V had moved into alternative accommodation for 
some time while Society of Lloyds agents carried out repairs to her flat. In this time, there 
were what Society of Lloyds describes as unnecessary and avoidable delays in completing 
the repairs.
Miss V says the handling of her claim caused her a great deal of stress and anxiety. After 
some initial repairs, she says her flat stood empty for over four weeks with nothing being 
done. It was left to her to chase Society of Lloyds agents to push things forward. 
Subsequently, a plasterer also didnt do some required works, which then delayed the start 
of redecorating. This meant when Miss V moved back into her flat  her time in alternative 
accommodation having come to an end  it wasnt ready for her. The day before she moved 
back in, Miss V said in an email to Society of Lloyds:
Our bedrooms are full with kitchen items and all the small furniture that didnt go to storage. 
We have nowhere to store anything and no furniture to use. I am setting up my work 
equipment on a wallpaper pasting table (which is totally unsuitable for me as I suffer with 
back problems which I am currently receiving treatment for). My son is having to temporarily 
sleep on a friends sofa until the work is completed and myself and my dog are moving back 
as there is no other alternative.
Miss V went on to say:
If these 8 weeks had been organised properly I should have been able to spend a few days 
moving back gradually to a completed property but as it is I am under a great deal of stress 
trying to manage the move and carry on working.
I understand that, because her flat wasnt ready, Miss V also had to reschedule the laying of 
a carpet and the return of units and other furniture that had been in storage. Miss V says it 
wasnt until around 12 days after she left her alternative accommodation that things in her 
flat were as they shouldve been when she moved back in. 
Miss V says Society of Lloyds wouldve had to pay around £1,600 to £1,700 if shed stayed 
in alternative accommodation for another 12 days. And its partly on this basis she thinks 
Society of Lloyds should compensate her £1,000 in total, rather than the £500 it has already 
paid her.
In looking at the distress and inconvenience Society of Lloyds mistakes have had on Miss V, 
my role is to look at the impact of those mistakes on her. And what Society of Lloyds 
mightve had to pay had Miss V stayed in alternative accommodation for another 12 days 
isnt a reflection of that impact. It wouldnt be in line with our approach  and I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable  to award Miss V compensation using that as a basis.  
So Ive looked at the experience Miss V has described in line with our general approach to 
complaints involving distress and inconvenience. We're all inconvenienced at times in our 
day-to-day lives. And its not unusual to experience a certain level of frustration and minor 
annoyance when dealing with financial businesses. But from what Miss V says, Im in no 
doubt Society of Lloyds failings in handling her claim have caused her considerable distress, 
upset and worry. And theyve also caused her significant inconvenience and disruption that 
has needed a lot of extra effort to sort out. Miss V clearly felt that impact over many weeks. 
But I think the compensation of £500 that Society of Lloyds has paid Miss V is fair and 
reasonable and in line with what wed expect it to offer in the circumstances Miss V has 
described.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman