DRN-2135673
The complaint
Mr and Ms A complain Skipton Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 1992 with a joint 
mortgage. The policy was amended in 1999 when Mr and Ms A took out a further advance. It 
provided cover for Mr and Ms A if they couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms A disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Ms As case.
Im not going to uphold Mr and Ms As complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Ms A have said throughout their complaint that they were given the impression they 
had to take the PPI as part of their mortgage package. They say they werent given a proper 
choice about buying it. Ive noted everything Mr and Ms A have said, and Ive also looked 
carefully at the available evidence from the point of sale.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure exactly what was discussed when Mr and Ms A 
arranged their mortgage. Im also mindful that these events took place many years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
I can see that Mr and Ms As mortgage application included a section about PPI. That 
section was crossed through, which indicates they didnt want the cover when they applied 
for their mortgage. So I think Mr and Ms A wouldve understood they didnt have to buy the 
PPI to get the loan they wanted.
Skipton wrote to Mr and Ms A after their mortgage had started. The letter provided 
information about the PPI and an application form for Mr and Ms A to complete if they 
wanted the cover. Mr and Ms A completed and returned the PPI application to Skipton.
Skiptons letter provided information about the PPI, and pointed out the risks of not having 
cover in place if something went wrong. But Im not persuaded the letter put pressure on 
customers to buy the PPI. Im satisfied that Mr and Ms A wouldve realised they had a choice 
about buying the PPI and they decided to take it out. 
Theres nothing to suggest that Mr and Ms A didnt satisfy the eligibility requirements of the 
policy when taking it out. And their circumstances dont suggest they would have been 
caught by any conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as those affecting self-
employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions.
I understand Ms A had a medical procedure in 1995. But I think its unlikely she wouldve 
thought she would have to take time off work in connection with that procedure when the 
policy was amended in 1999. So this point doesnt change my overall conclusions about the 
complaint.
Skipton didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Ms A, so it didnt have to check whether it 
was suitable for them. That means it didnt have to ask about any alternative means Mr and 
Ms A may have had to cover their mortgage repayments.
Its not clear whether Mr and Ms A were made aware of the policy cost before they agreed to 
take it out. But they took out the policy knowing they would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely they would 
have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Mr and Ms A have mentioned they received a PPI refund in connection with a mortgage from 
a different provider. So I can see why they might consider Skipton should also provide a 
refund. But we assess each sale according to its own circumstances and the particular 
product that was sold. Having done that in this case Im not persuaded the PPI was mis-sold, 
so I wont be upholding Mr and Ms As complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman