DRN-2451175
The complaint
Mr Y complains about a life assurance plan he took out with Vitality Corporate Services 
Limited (Vitality Life) in 2019. He was told that his premiums would reduce to a certain 
amount after the first three years, but hes since found out that isnt the case.
What happened
Mr Y started a life assurance plan with Vitality Life in 2019. The plan initially provided 
£600,000 of cover over 20 years for a monthly premium of just under £502. It included 
indexation which meant that his cover and premium increased each year in line with the 
Retail Price Index.  Mr Y understood that his plan had a temporary loading because of his 
medical condition and that his premiums would reduce to around £150 a month after the first 
three years. 
But in April 2020, Mr Y was told that his premiums would reduce to around £318 a month 
instead.
Mr Y complained as he felt the advice hed been given when he started the plan had been 
wrong and mis-leading. He said he would have to find around £200 a month more than he 
was expecting. Mr Y said he would not have taken out the policy if hed been given accurate 
information about it. 
 
Vitality Life said that Mr Y had been given the wrong information about the loadings on his 
plan. It apologised for this and offered to pay Mr Y £750 by way of compensation. It said that 
there were two loadings  one of 137.5% for the term of the plan because of his medical 
condition, and another of £5.50 per £1,000 of cover for the first three years. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought that the compensation Vitality 
Life had offered was fair. He said that it had accepted that Mr Y had been given the wrong 
information that his premiums would reduce to between £125 to £150 after the first three 
years and had offered appropriate compensation for this. He said Mr Y wasnt locked into the 
policy, and he had the option to cancel it and take out cover elsewhere. He didnt think it 
would be fair to ask Vitality Life to honour the figures of £125 to £150, when this wasnt the 
correct amount.
 
Mr Y said that he had based his decision to take out the policy with Vitality Life solely 
because hed been told his premium would significantly reduce after three years. He 
wouldnt have taken the policy out otherwise as the figure of around £318 a month would be 
too expensive for him, especially in his retirement years. He said hed paid almost £502 in 
monthly premiums for nearly two years and didnt think the compensation offered was 
enough. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And I do appreciate how Mr Ys decision to accept the policy Vitality Life offered him was on 
the basis that his monthly premiums would reduce after a three-year period.
Ive considered the wording of the email he received from the adviser. This says, in relation 
to the underwriting decision for his application: I have also done a quotation for £501.12 
(based on your original £500 budget) and for this amount we can insure you for £600,000. 
This price would also then reduce after the first 3 years to around £150 per month.
Ive also listened to the call recording where this was discussed with Mr Y, and the adviser 
reiterates that, after three years, the premium would reduce to around £125 to £150 a 
month. The adviser explains that this is because Vitality Lifes underwriters believed there 
was an increased risk for this initial period because of Mr Ys medical condition.
However, this information wasnt right as it didnt take into account that one of the loadings 
was a permanent one  so would be in place for the duration of the plan. 
So Ive thought about what Mr Y may have done differently if he had been told that the 
premium would reduce, but only by around £180 a month. On my behalf, the investigator has 
asked Mr Y about this and he said that he wouldve looked elsewhere for the cover he 
wanted. He also explained that his application to another provider at the time was rejected 
because of his medical condition. 
In the circumstances, here it is difficult to say with any certainty what Mr Y may have chosen 
to do, as there isnt a comparison with what the premiums for similar cover with another 
provider may have been, had Mr Y been accepted for it, or whether this would also have 
included loadings based upon his medical condition. 
So although I can see that Mr Y accepted paying the higher premiums from the outset on the 
understanding that this would only be for a period of three years, I dont think it would be 
reasonable to require Vitality Life to provide him with the cover on the basis of the incorrect 
information he was given. And although I appreciate that Mr Y may now feel that continuing 
with the plan on the basis that it has been offered to him isnt affordable, he has had the 
benefit of this life insurance since it started. And, on the information provided, it isnt clear 
whether Mr Y wouldve have been able to obtain the level of cover he wanted for less each 
month.
Taking everything into account, I think the £750 Vitality Life offered Mr Y in recognition of the 
mistake in the information he was given represents a fair settlement to his complaint. It is for 
Mr Y to decide whether he now wishes to continue with his Vitality Life plan on the basis of 
the correct information about the medical loadings that apply to it.
My final decision
My decision is that Vitality Corporate Services Limited has already offered Mr Y £750 in 
compensation, which I think is fair. It should pay this amount directly to Mr Y, if it hasnt done 
so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman