DRN-3628628
The complaint
Miss K complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund her for transactions she says she didnt 
make and closed her account. Shed like the transactions refunded.
What happened
Miss K held a current account with Monzo. She says in early February 2022 she made a 
balance enquiry at an ATM. She later found that her card was missing  and discovered 
some transactions that she didnt recognise, including ATM withdrawals and a payment to a 
casino. She reported these, but the bank declined to refund her. They also took the decision 
to close her account immediately.
Unhappy with this Miss K complained to Monzo. They investigated what had happened but 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They said the terms of their accounts allowed them 
to close accounts at any time, and they were not going to reverse this decision. They also 
said they were unable to treat her claim as fraudulent, and their investigation was thorough 
and reached the correct conclusion.
Miss K then referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He felt it more likely than not Miss K authorised the transactions. He said 
the timings of the transactions show there was a log in from Miss Ks device in the middle of 
the transactions but didnt report them until after further transactions had left her account. 
Miss K had said she didnt report them earlier as her phone was low on battery, but the 
investigator saw there was a further login using this device. 
The investigator also felt that Monzo had acted within their terms when closing Miss Ks 
account. He didnt think the bank needed to do anything further.
Miss K disagreed. She said that when she checked her account she was inside without any 
signal, so her mobile banking wouldnt load. She said she contacted the bank to stop her 
card immediately. She said she had also charged up her phone while indoors. 
She asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so the case has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The disputed transactions
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 say, in summary, that a bank should generally 
refund a consumer if a payment comes out of their account that they didnt authorise. Ive 
seen from the technical evidence provided that the payments in dispute were authenticated 
using Miss Ks genuine card and PIN, so theres no dispute about the transactions coming 
about because of something like a technical error. 
The key consideration for me whether its more likely than not Miss K or someone on her 
behalf made the transactions. If so, then they would be considered authorised and it would 
be reasonable for Monzo to hold her liable.
Having scrutinised the evidence available, and the wider circumstances of the complaint, Im 
satisfied the transactions in dispute were authorised by Miss K. There are several points that 
lead me to this conclusion:
It is possible Miss K was observed entering her PIN into an ATM by a thief, who later 
found a way to steal the card. This isnt unheard of. But I also note there were no 
incorrect PIN attempts, which would mean if it was a thief then they would have got a 
good look at Miss K entering the PIN. Or whoever was using the card already knew 
the PIN
The money taken had only recently been transferred into the account  earlier that 
day. The balance was significantly higher than the regular balance. It would be 
incredibly lucky for a thief to obtain Miss Ks card just at the time there was such a 
significant balance available. Its seems more likely the money was transferred in 
anticipation of being removed and claimed as fraudulent.
Miss K also told Monzo when she initially reported it that the money was needed for 
important bills, and later that it was for her mothers bills. But later to our service she 
said the money was sent to her by her partner for shopping. So, its clear shes been 
inconsistent as to the reason this money was in her account.
Miss K has said the app login in the middle of the disputed transactions didnt load, 
as she was inside a shop at the time. But its unclear why she would need to check 
the app, as she checked her balance at the ATM. It wouldnt then seem necessary to 
check the app unless she believed something had changed with the account.
Taking this into account, along with the wider circumstances of which I am aware, Im not 
persuaded these transactions were carried out by an unknown third party  I dont find 
Miss Ks version of events to be credible. I think they were more likely than not carried out 
either by Miss K, or someone with her consent. On that basis Im satisfied Monzo havent 
been unreasonable in declining to refund them.
Account closure
Generally, a bank can close a consumers account so long as they give a reasonable notice 
period, and its only in specific circumstances that Id expect them to close an account 
immediately. Monzo outline these circumstances in their terms. Having reviewed these terms 
Im satisfied that they acted within them when deciding to close Miss Ks account 
immediately and havent been unfair in doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman