DRN-1473929
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them two different 
packaged bank accounts, one called a Gold account and one called a Premier account. 
Mrs P and Mr P paid monthly fees for the accounts and in return Lloyds offered them several 
potential benefits. They would like recompense for those charges which were wrongly 
applied. 
What happened
Mrs P and Mr P have been customers of Lloyds for quite a long time. They have told us that 
they first opened an account with Lloyds during the 1960s.
Lloyds only has detailed records going back to 2001 and has told us that by that time it had 
already sold the Gold account to Mrs P and Mr P, and was charging them monthly fees, but 
it doesnt know how long they held it before 2001. It has also told us that it sold the Premier 
account to them in 2005 and charged them a higher fee than it had for the Gold account. 
Lloyds has also said that in 2019 Mrs P and Mr P switched from the Premier account to a 
Club Lloyds account for which it charged a lower fee than for the Premier account.
(Strictly, Club Lloyds was not an account in itself, but was an optional extra Lloyds sold to 
customers with various types of account. In return for the monthly fee, customers could 
receive interest-free overdrafts of up to £100 and vouchers for things such as cinema 
tickets).
I believe that Lloyds records about this are probably reliable and I have taken this account 
history to be accurate. Mrs P and Mr P have told us that before the Gold account they held 
an ordinary current account which was fee-free, and I have also taken this to be correct. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into the complaint and didnt recommend that 
Lloyds should give Mrs P and Mr P any money back. Mrs P and Mr P didnt agree with the 
adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review their case. So, it has come to 
me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mrs P and Mr P and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mrs P and Mr P have described the reasons for their complaint in some detail. Amongst 
other things, they have told us that: 
over the years, Lloyds suggested that they should change their account several 
times,
the packages became increasingly complex and the charges rose,
 the benefits included insurance policies which were age qualified and of 
questionable value to them as they became older, 
they believe it was incumbent on Lloyds to advise them about better deals as they 
got older,
they are claiming for the period between July 2008 and July 2019, during which 
time they believe they had no insurance and are therefore due compensation.
It seems to me that the first two of these concerns are closely connected with each other, as 
are the last three, so I have considered the first two and the last three together.
 
Lloyds suggested they should change accounts, which became more complex and prices 
rose
From the account history I described earlier, it seems to me that there are two main account 
changes within this complaint, the first being the way Lloyds sold the Gold account to Mrs P 
and Mr P before 2001, and the second being the way it sold them the Premier account in 
2005. 
Obviously, both these events took place before 2008, when Mrs P and Mr P have said their 
claim starts; but they have also told us that they believe there were strong indications of 
mis-selling, so to make sure I havent missed anything, I have considered the sales 
themselves as well as later events.
 
As Lloyds sold both accounts to Mrs P and Mr P well over a decade ago, I cant tell for sure 
what happened. Instead, I have used the evidence that is available to me to determine what 
is most likely to have taken place. 
Along with other banks, Lloyds was allowed to sell PBAs in two ways. It could do so without 
giving personal advice on an information-only (or non-advised) basis; or as an advised (or 
recommended) sale. In both situations, as well as giving Mrs P and Mr P a choice, I would 
have expected Lloyds to tell them about the accounts costs and benefits clearly; and in an 
advised sale I would also have expected it to check that the account it was selling was 
appropriate for their circumstances. 
On our questionnaire, Mrs P and Mr P told us that Lloyds recommended both accounts to 
them, and Lloyds has accepted that it advised them to buy the Premier account, so I have 
assessed both changes as recommended sales.
From July 1997, one of the main benefits of the Gold account was travel insurance, along 
with other travel-related features such as commission-free foreign exchange for some 
currencies and use of a travel assistance phone line. The account could also provide 
banking benefits such as lower fees for using an overdraft than Lloyds usually applied to 
customers with fee-free accounts, and other features such as extended warranties on 
electrical goods bought with a Lloyds card. 
I dont know exactly when Lloyds sold the Gold account to Mrs P and Mr P, and its benefits 
did vary over the years, but I understand that Mrs P and Mr P travelled from time-to-time and also used an overdraft. So, I think they probably had potential needs for at least some of the 
Gold accounts benefits and it was appropriate for their circumstances. So, I think it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to recommend the Gold account to them.
By 2005, when Lloyds sold the Premier account to Mrs P and Mr P, it had changed the 
benefits of the Gold account in several ways. For example, they now included use of a car 
breakdown service, mobile phone insurance and an interest-free overdraft of up to £100. 
The Premier account offered many of the same type of benefits, but these were often wider 
in scope. For example, the car breakdown service had fewer exclusions and the interest-free 
limit for overdrafts was £250 rather than £100, with lower interest rates for credit above the 
limits. I understand that Mrs P and Mr P drove a car and I have already mentioned that they 
overdrew their account from time-to-time. So, it seems to me that it would have been 
reasonable for Lloyds to recommend the Premier account to them.
Im also satisfied that on both occasions Lloyds gave Mrs P and Mr P a choice. When it sold 
them the Gold account, they had held a fee-free account for some time, and I havent seen 
anything to make me think that it told them they couldnt keep their existing fee-free account. 
Similarly, when it sold them the Premier account, I doubt that it told them they had to change 
accounts or couldnt go back to a fee-free account if they wanted. 
I also think that on both occasions Lloyds probably told Mrs P and Mr P about the costs and 
benefits of the accounts; after all, it was trying to sell them the accounts and it was in its own 
interests to tell them what they could gain in return for the fees. 
I dont think Lloyds mis-sold either account to Mrs P and Mr P, but their concerns about the 
packages becoming more complex and the fees rising are largely about what happened 
afterwards. 
Lloyds was allowed to make reasonable changes to the benefits it provided through its 
packaged bank accounts and to change its fees; but it had to tell its customers what was 
happening and give them fair choices. I have already mentioned some of the changes to the 
Gold account, and Im aware that Lloyds made similar changes to the Premier account while 
Mrs P and Mr P held it. It also increased the fees. Lloyds usually told its customers about 
these changes before it made them and allowed them to decide what to do. It may well have 
suggested that Mrs P and Mr P should accept the changes, but I dont think it failed to keep 
them informed or to give them a choice. 
I wont comment on Mrs P and Mr Ps description of the packages as being complex, but I 
dont think Lloyds behaved unfairly towards them in the changes it made. 
Some benefits were age qualified, Lloyds should have told them about better deals, they had 
no insurance from 2008 to 2019
Firstly, Id like to clarify that the only benefit which had an age qualification on either account 
was the travel insurance, which didnt cover people aged over 80; and that during the period 
in question both Mrs P and Mr P were below that age, so the limit did not affect them. 
However, they have told us very strongly that they believe they were denied travel 
insurance due to their age. I understand that this led to their concern that they were not 
insured for around eleven years. 
Lloyds has records which it says show that Mrs P and Mr P contacted the insurance provider 
several times, and on at least one occasion they paid an extra premium to reduce any 
excess charge in the event of a claim. It also says that they made a claim following loss of 
property while abroad. I dont know the detailed outcome of either of these events. Its possible, for example, that the claim may have been denied or that they couldnt reduce the 
excess charge as much as they may have wanted. However, I have not seen sufficiently 
strong evidence for me to conclude that Lloyds denied them the full range of travel insurance 
that came with the account. I dont think it left them with no insurance in the way they have 
described. 
Finally, I acknowledge Mrs P and Mr Ps view that they would have liked Lloyds to have 
advised them about better deals as they got older. However, Lloyds did not have to do this. 
As I mentioned above, Im satisfied that it kept Mrs P and Mr P informed about changes to 
their accounts, and as it didnt have to give them any further advice, I dont think it failed to 
meet its obligations to them. 
So, in summary, I cant be certain that Lloyds got everything right for Mrs P and Mr P, but I 
dont think it mis-sold either the Gold or Premier account to them. Nor do I think it 
subsequently left them without insurance, misled them about age limits, failed to keep them 
informed of changes to their accounts or denied them reasonable choices. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint about 
Lloyds Bank UK Plc. I am not going to tell it to give them any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2020. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman