DRN-2751241
The complaint
Miss C complains about the way JD Williams & Company Limited (JDW) handled of a debt 
she owed them.
What happened
On 15 August 2018, Miss C contacted JDW to say that she wouldnt be able to make her 
normal payment due to unforeseen circumstances until 28 August. She said future 
payments should be fine. JDW responded on 3 September 2018 acknowledging receipt of 
£80 on 28 August. They said this left her with a balance of £1,894.17 and the next payment 
of £82.90 was due by 15 September 2018. They asked her to contact them if this caused her 
any difficulties. 
Miss C responded to say she could only afford one £80 payment a month on or just after her 
payday on the 28 of the month. JDW said if the September payment wasnt received on 
time, charges may be applied, and credit reference agencies informed in line with their terms 
and conditions. 
Miss C said she suffers with mental health conditions and the payment reminders were 
causing her distress. She said the issue is the payment date and asked that it be changed. 
JDW said payments are due every 28 days in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account and offered to discuss an affordable payment plan with her. To prevent the situation 
worsening, they removed her credit limit. Miss C said she wasnt in financial difficulties and 
just wanted was to change the payment date.
In September 2019, Miss C offered JDW £60 per month. They accepted the offer on the 
basis of payments being received every 28 days as per their billing cycle. They said the 
arrangement would be reviewed in six months.
In March 2020, JDW sold Miss Cs debt to a collection agency. She found out when the 
agency wrote to her. Miss C accepts JDW were able to pass the debt on, but she felt the 
decision to do so was unfair as she was paying regularly and had made them aware of her 
mental health conditions. She says their actions had an adverse effect on her mental health 
and complained to JDW.
JDW looked into her complaint and issued their final response. They said following a review, 
theyd decided to sell a group of accounts which were no longer being used and had been 
placed on long term interest free payment plans. Miss Cs account fitted these criteria so it 
was included in the sale. JDW said the terms and conditions of the account allowed them to 
do so and moving the account to the agency would allow her to pay monthly instead of every 
28 days. They reassured her that no default had been registered, but her credit file would be 
updated to reflect that the debt was now owned by the agency rather than JDW. 
Miss C didnt accept JDWs response. She said the payment plan which had been agreed in 
September 2019, was only in place because she was paid monthly but JDW requested 
payment every 28 days. She said shed stuck by the plan and the sale of the debt had 
caused her a lot of stress and worry. 
As she was unhappy with the response, Miss C referred her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it but she didnt uphold it. She said the terms and conditions of the 
accounts were clear that payment was due every 28 days and allowed JDW to sell the 
account on. Our investigator felt JDW hadnt treated Miss C unfairly and, as the new owner 
of the debt is likely to accept monthly payments, the new arrangement might actually be of 
benefit to her. 
JDW accepted our investigators view of the complaint, but Miss C didnt. She said the 
28 day billing cycle was a frustration but not the main point of her complaint. She said her 
main concern was that the debt was sold on without notice when JDW were aware of her 
mental health issues. Receipt of the letter from the debt collection agency caused her to 
have panic attacks, and shed been paying the agreed amount every month without fail. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C contacted JDW about her payments in August 2018 at which point her balance was 
in the region of £1,900. JDW confirmed that payments were required every 28 days. She 
contacted them again in September 2019 when the balance was around £2,200 and asked 
to pay £60 per month. JDW accepted this but again said payment was expected every 28 
days. They also cancelled interest and charges and said the arrangement would be 
reviewed in six months. 
Miss C has said she made payments agreed every month and I can see she did. But those 
payments were made by calendar month and not every 28 days. Nonetheless, a separate 
review of accounts carried out by JDW led to Miss Cs account being sold on as the terms 
and conditions allow. 
I understand Miss Cs concern that JDW Didnt tell her that they were taking that action, 
especially given that they were aware of her mental health conditions. But I think she ought 
to have been expecting to hear some news of the account, as the six-month agreement was 
coming to an end so I don t think it should have come as a surprise to receive a letter about 
the account. I accept it may have come as a surprise to hear from the debt collection agency 
rather than JDW, but I dont think it was unfair for them to have left it to the agency to explain 
the situation. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest Miss C has suffered a financial loss as a result of JDWs 
actions. Ultimately, in many ways, the change is likely to have been beneficial to Miss C as 
shed be able to pay monthly and the debt would remain free from interest and charges. I 
can see she has been in touch with them subsequently about reducing her payment further.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss C but having reviewed the evidence and arguments put forward 
by both Miss C and JDW, I dont think they have treated her unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman