DRN-3988085
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hatton James Legal Ltd gave him misleading advice and information
before he agreed to use their services to help him with an employment dispute.
What happened
Mr M said he was working on a zero hours contract with a one-week notice period. But said
he was summarily dismissed for "unauthorised access use. In July 2020 he got in touch
with Hatton James after seeing their advert about an unfair dismissal case for someone
working in a similar position. He said he spoke to Hatton James and was told hed a strong
case. He agreed to use their services and paid their fee of £1,000. Mr M said he was given
little notice for preparation for a court hearing. And when he asked for an update Hatton
James asked him to pay a further £300. He said when he questioned the status of his claim
Hatton James said they wouldnt work for him anymore. He complained to Hatton James.
Hatton James said theyd given Mr M an explanation as to the first tranche of fees. And that
theyd kept him updated about the status and progress of his claim. Hatton James said that
they made clear to Mr M that the strength of his claim would only be known once the
respondent had provided disclosure about the case against him. They said that Mr M had
been told about the second tranche of fees and the work theyd do for this. But as hed
expressed his concerns about them, and as the relationship needed to be built on trust and
good communication, they said Mr M should look to instruct someone else to pursue his
claim further. Hatton James said they would offer Mr M £200 as a gesture of goodwill to
bring his complaint to a close.
Mr M wasnt happy with Hatton James response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said he could see a claim had been submitted for a hearing. But he didnt
agree that Hatton James had provided the services they said they would to justify the initial
fee of £1,000. He said Hatton James should reimburse the fee of £1,000 to Mr M.
Hatton James didnt agree they said theyd told Mr M in their initial call about what they
would do and followed this up in subsequent emails and updates. They said theyd been
clear that the strength of Mr Ms claim couldnt be known until they received disclosure from
the respondent. Hatton James asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im currently minded not
to uphold this complaint. I know this will be a disappointment to Mr M so Ill explain why.
In July 2020, I can see that after Mr M enquired about the services provided by Hatton
James, a telephone call was arranged to discuss his situation further. Its clear Mr M had
concerns as to whether his contract could mean he had a claim for unfair dismissal. I can
see from the discussion that Mr M questioned the connection with his dismissal being
associated with some concerns hes previously raised to his employer.
The notes Ive seen of the initial discussions with Mr M show that Mr Ms case was being
considered under discrimination. And an explanation of Hatton James fees and what they
would do was outlined.
Following the call Hatton James emailed Mr M outlining their services, fees and terms and
conditions. This said they offered a bespoke tranche of work to formulate a strategy, issue
the claim, advise on the prospects and amount of likely compensation and advise on the
response.
It goes on to say that there is a fee of £1,000 for this tranche of work. The email provides a
link to Hatton James terms and conditions. And says if Mr M is happy to take this forward,
he needed to agree to their terms and conditions. I think Hatton James gave Mr M clear
information about what the £1,000 would cover and Mr M confirmed his understanding as he
emailed the same day to say hed signed and agreed to Hatton Janes terms and conditions
and had paid the fee. After which Hatton James told Mr M that theyd start to put together his
case.
In September 2020, I can see Hatton James sent Mr M the details of the claim that would be
appended to his Employment Tribunal claim form. Explaining theyd looked to present the
necessary facts succinctly, persuasively and ensuring that they address each element of the
claim. And explained they would lodge the Employment Tribunal claim form and would look
to raising an early conciliation and advising you when we receive the response. They 
asked Mr M to review the form, making any amendments, additions, deletions or comments 
that are appropriate, and ensure that you address each of the points in yellow which are 
meant for you.
I can see that after Mr M returned the form with the necessary amendments. In early
September 2020 Hatton James emailed Mr M about the next steps if he wanted to instruct
them to progress his claim further, and about any future fees. This involved:
dealing with directions that the tribunal sent out;
providing further information  required from the directions,
exchanging documents,
producing a witness statement and
preparing for trial.
Hatton James also explained they wouldnt fully know the next stage until they received the
directions from the tribunal. But gave an estimation of the potential fees.
Hatton James records show Mr M questioned whether the next tranche would be
premature given they didnt yet know what the respondents evidence was. But Mr M
agreed for Hatton James to take the case all the way but with the provision that it was a
strong case after the respondent had disclosed their evidence.
I can see in an effort to clarify the situation Hatton James told Mr M in September 2020 that
theyd lodged his claim, they were noted as his representative, they gave an explanation of
what the first tranche of work covered, the likely amount of compensation he could win. And
that on a response to his claim the first tranche of work would be concluded.A preliminary hearing was set for mid-April 2021. And I can see that Hatton James updated
Mr M about this. They explained that the respondent had asked the tribunal to strike out the
case as they said it had little chance of success, but this hadnt been accepted by the
Employment Tribunal judge. They also explained again that the strength of the case would
be dependent on the disclosure from the respondent. They told Mr M that he needed to pay
an additional £300 to cover for the next tranche of work as his claim progressed. I can see
Hatton James asked Mr M to update them about his current employment status and of any
dates he wouldnt be available.
As Mr M didnt respond to this email Hatton James sent a follow up email asking Mr M to
contact to discuss his case. The email explained there had been a development and gave a
deadline for Mr M to respond for his case to be progressed further.
I can see its at this point that the relationship between Mr M and Hatton James began to
deteriorate. Mr M said hed not been updated about the mid-April hearing, that hed paid fees
for the first tranche and hadnt yet received disclosure. And that Hatton James were now
looking to remove their involvement. But I dont think this was the case at this time. The
development was that the mid-April hearing was postponed  not cancelled  and a later
date was being considered, hence Hatton James request to Mr M for his available dates.
And I think Hatton James were seeking his instruction as there would be additional costs
once the first tranche of work was done. Hatton James did give a deadline for response as
Mr M hadnt responded to their previous email, but I dont think thats unreasonable as they
would have needed Mr Ms instructions to continue.
I appreciate that Mr M has been through a difficult time and it must have been disappointing
for him that Hatton James involvement in his employment claim, hadnt resulted in a
conclusion for him. But having considered his points, I dont think Hatton James has done
anything wrong. In reviewing the evidence, I think Hatton James had formulated a strategy,
issued Mr Ms claim, advised him on its prospects and told him the likely amount of
compensation he could get if his claim was successful. I also think Hatton James had made
clear that there would be other fees associated to his claim.
Hatton James has offered to reimburse Mr M £200 from the first tranche fee  as I dont think
Hatton James has acted unfairly or unreasonably it would be for Mr M to decide whether he
wants to accept their offer.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M didnt agree. In summary he said:
he was led to believe hed a strong case, and hadnt seen any basis or foundation for 
Hatton to have changed this;
he didnt get to see the other sides evidence despite being told by Hatton that he 
would;
Hatton didnt formulate a strategy for his case, their email only covered the same 
information discussed in the initial 40 minute phone call; and
as Hatton hadnt delivered what they said they would for the £1,000 fee he didnt 
agree that the fee was justified.
Having considered Mr Ms response, Ive not been persuaded to change my thinking. I dont 
think Mr M has presented any new representations for me to be consider. The points hes 
raised Ive already addressed in my provisional decision. I know Mr M will be disappointed 
but from what Ive seen, Hatton James did what had been agreed in the scope of work.Mr M disputes that a strategy was formed as nothing was added to the details discussed in 
the initial telephone call. As I said in my provisional decision this call was followed by an 
email that explained Hatton James would, in the first tranche of work, look to formulate a 
strategy, issue the claim, advise on the prospects and amount of likely compensation and 
advise on the response. They also explained that for the first tranche of work theyd charge 
a fee of £1,000. Following this Mr M agreed to Hattons terms and conditions. 
I can see Hatton James, from the first tranche of work, had prepared Mr Ms case ready for 
the tribunal to hear so his case was progressing. A preliminary hearing had been set but the 
respondent had asked the tribunal to strike out. Which the tribunal judge had rejected, this I 
think indicated there was a case to answer. And I think Hatton James were clear throughout 
that the strength of the case was dependent on the disclosure of evidence from the 
respondent, which would have to be supplied as the case progressed. 
In offering Mr M £200 Hatton James recognised that there had been a breakdown in their 
relationship with Mr M that made it difficult to continue. And they advised Mr M to get other 
representation to take his case on. The offer was made to help Mr M towards this. As I think 
Hatton James has shown their fee is justified, its for Mr M to decide whether he accepts the 
£200 offer or not.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman