DRN-3019796
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about a lifetime mortgage they had with Legal & General Home 
Finance Limited (L&G). They are aggrieved at the high cost of the early repayment charge 
(ERC) they paid when they redeemed the mortgage. They believe the amount of the ERC is 
unfair and dont believe it represents the costs L&G actually incurred in repaying the 
mortgage.
Mr and Mrs M are represented in their complaint by an attorney; appointed by the Office of 
the Public Guardian.
What happened
In 2017 Mr and Mrs M arranged their lifetime mortgage with L&G via an independent 
mortgage broker. L&G considered the application and accepted it. It issued a mortgage offer 
that Mr and Mrs M accepted. In relation to ERCs that document said:
Your lifetime mortgage is designed to be repaid when you (or if joint borrowers, both of you) 
have died or leave your home because you need long term care. If you repay your lifetime 
mortgage at any time before that, for any reason other than those listed below you may have 
to pay a substantial Early Repayment Charge. You will also have to pay our Closing 
Administration Fee at the time. This is currently £125.
The Early Repayment Charge is calculated to recover costs that we or our funding providers 
incur when setting up the lifetime mortgage, in transaction costs incurred in reinvesting the 
money, or due to changes in long term interest rates. The Early Repayment Charge will vary 
according to your age(s) at the time or repayment. 
The Early Repayment Charge will reflect any change in the interest rates on government 
borrowing or Gilts. This will be measured using the FTSE UK Gilts 15 Year Index (the 
Index) which is published daily in the Financial Rimes. 
If the Index is lower than the Benchmark Rate for your loan then you will have to pay an 
Early Repayment Charge. The lower the index falls the higher the Early Repayment Charge 
will be. 

The Benchmark Rate for your cash lump sum is fixed at 2.05%. This is 0.3% higher than the 
current Index, to cover mortgage set up costs and transaction costs incurred in reinvesting 
the money.
The attorney has said that in 2019 Mr and Mrs M were unable to continue to make the 
monthly payments theyd committed to pay toward the mortgage. In addition, they felt that 
their home was no longer appropriate accommodation due to Mr Ms deteriorated health. As 
such, they decided to sell their home and buy a more appropriate one. When they paid the 
mortgage off in the spring of 2020, they were charged an ERC of slightly over £30,000. They 
were unhappy with this as it limited their options for an alternative purchase, and so they 
complained to L&G.
L&G responded to the complaint by highlighting the information contained in the 
documentation about the ERC from the time of the sale. It was satisfied it was reasonable for 
it to have charged the ERC. In relation to the comments about Mr and Mrs M having been 
unable to pay the mortgage payments, it asked for further information on this point, as they 
hadnt been required to make any payments. It also provided the attorney with a long-term 
care certificate to have completed, to see if Mr and Mrs M were eligible for a refund of the 
ERC.
The attorney wasnt satisfied with L&Gs response and asked this service to consider the 
complaint.
Two of our investigators considered the complaint. It was confirmed that the advice to take 
out the mortgage had been given by an independent broker. This meant that L&G wasnt 
responsible for whether the advice to take out the mortgage was suitable for Mr and Mrs M.  
It was concluded that the information and documentation from the time of the sale would 
have made it clear that an ERC would be charged if the mortgage was paid off before death 
or a move into long-term care. Whether the ERC was a fair pre-estimate of the costs of the 
mortgage being repaid early was also considered. It was concluded it was. 
While the attorney had raised the fact that Mr and Mrs M were vulnerable at the time the 
mortgage was taken out, the investigators didnt consider there was anything that would 
have alerted L&G to there being such a vulnerability. This included the fact that their 
solicitor, involved in the final stage of the process before acceptance of the offer, didnt raise 
concerns. In addition, it was explained that lifetime mortgages were designed specifically for 
the needs of older consumers; this fact didnt make the provision of them to be predatory, as 
the attorney had suggested.
The attorney remained dissatisfied with the investigators conclusions as he was of the view 
that the ERC was unfair. He didnt accept that the ERC should take account of anything to 
do with the remaining term of the mortgage. In addition, he considered that L&G should have 
checked the advice the broker had given to ensure that it had identified and taken any 
vulnerabilities into account. It was requested that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will firstly address the attorneys comments about the role of L&G in the granting of the 
mortgage. He has effectively said that he considers L&G should have checked that the 
mortgage broker had done its job properly. He believes that if L&G had done that, the 
mortgage wouldnt have been advanced, and L&G should compensate Mr and Mrs M for it 
being unsuitable for them. 
I can understand why the attorney would like this to be the case, but it is not. The mortgage 
broker was authorised by the industry regulator at the time. This means that the broker was 
expected to abide by the same rules about conduct and advice that L&G was. L&G was 
entitled to accept business submitted by a regulated business on the basis that it had done 
its job properly. As such, I dont think it did anything wrong when accepting the application 
from the broker at face value. 
Furthermore, if the attorney believes that the mortgage process was done incorrectly and the 
mortgage was mis-sold, that complaint should rightly be directed to the mortgage broker. 
Any concerns about the actions of the solicitor involved would again need to be directed to the relevant professional bodys complaint scheme.
The core of this complaint is the amount of the ERC charged when the mortgage was paid 
off. The ERC was clearly documented in the mortgage offer that was sent to Mr and Mrs M 
before the mortgage was advanced. They accepted that offer and the ERC that was 
associated with it.
As for the attorneys concern that the amount of the ERC is unfair, I would explain that in 
order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders will usually borrow money themselves. This 
will involve costs to the lender. L&G has confirmed the funds lent come from its annuity 
funds, but the principles are the same  indeed, L&G need the investments it makes from 
this fund to provide a return so that it can pay out on annuities. When the lender decides the 
format of the loans its going to use a tranche of money for, it has to include an assessment 
of the potential risks associated with doing so. Included in those risks is that some 
customers may repay their borrowing early. When that happens some of the money 
expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender remains liable for its own 
costs and L&G remains liable to find the funds to pay out the annuities the return from the 
mortgages would have funded. If the mortgages are repaid early, L&G needs to replace the 
investment to provide the growth within the annuity funds that will enable it to fulfil its 
obligations. 
In light of this, lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs to it of 
consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but 
is more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a similar 
type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the 
lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment and assessment of future conditions. 
The regulations allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way. It also fulfils the lenders 
requirement that a consumer is told in advance of taking the mortgage what the ERC will be 
and is given an example of it in monetary terms. 
The mortgage Mr and Mrs M took out was designed to be a long-term arrangement and 
certainly not designed to be paid off within only a few years of it starting. Given its nature, 
interest rates are long-term ones and so are the associated ERCs, as a lender is anticipating 
its money being tied up for potentially decades. 
L&G has explained that if interest rates have fallen by the time an early repayment is made, 
it will need to invest more funds at lower interest rates to replicate the expected returns from 
the original mortgage investment. L&G uses the yield on gilts to calculate the cost to it of 
replacing the investment. At the point of offer it sets the rate associated with an individual 
mortgage at 0.3% above the benchmark for the index for that date. This reflects the costs of 
setting up the mortgage. 
How ERCs are calculated is set out in the mortgage offer and I am satisfied that 
Mr and Mrs M were made aware that an ERC could be payable, the circumstances that 
would happen and that it might be a significant amount. I am satisfied this method of 
calculation was a reasonable pre-estimate of loss. I dont think the charge should be 
refunded.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 6 December 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman