DRN-1855060
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the level of service received and the cash settlement offered by 
Tesco Underwriting Limited, following an escape of water claim under her home insurance 
policy. 
Mr D, who is Mrs Ds partner, has also been corresponding with this service about Mrs Ds 
complaint. To keep things simple, I have referred to both Mr and Mrs D as Mrs D. 
What happened
Mrs D made a claim for damage to her property following an escape of water in September 
2019. Her kitchen ceiling collapsed, and damage was caused to kitchen doors and some 
other items.
Tesco informed Mrs D of what she needed to do, this included appointing her own plumber 
to repair the leak, and to provide photos of the damage that had been caused. At this stage 
Mrs D was informed that Tesco wouldnt attend her home  rather it would put together a 
scope of works in order to cash settle the claim based on the information she gave it. In 
another call, Tesco explained that for the kitchen doors, it could offer a 50% contribution 
towards any undamaged ones, in addition to the full cost of those which were damaged.
Mrs D spent time looking for a replacement kitchen and says that two weeks later Tesco said 
it would no longer offer the 50% contribution, because it believed matching doors could be 
found. It clarified that the 50% only applies where no match is available. Mrs D didnt agree 
they were a match and felt they were inferior to the damaged doors. She was also unhappy 
with the way Tesco had calculated the settlement. The matter couldnt be resolved so Mrs D 
brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator carefully looked into everything but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He accepted Tesco shouldve been clearer with Mrs D about the 50% contribution 
towards undamaged items from the outset. However, he felt Tesco had acted in line with the 
policy terms by offering to cash settle Mrs Ds claim and only pay for the damaged kitchen 
items and doors given it had found a similar replacement doors online. 
Mrs D disagreed with our investigator. She maintained Tesco offered to contribute 50% 
towards the costs of the undamaged items, and it should honour that. She said she 
purchased new kitchen items on the basis of the information provided by Tesco and has now 
been left out of pocket as a result. 
As no resolution could be met here, the case has now been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no issue taken here that Tesco can decide to settle a claim by offering to pay a cash 
settlement. For clarity, Tescos policy terms state under If you need to make a claim that 
we will decide to: pay you the cash value of the lost, damaged or stolen items. What is in 
dispute here is whether Tesco should increase the settlement amount it offered Mrs D and 
honour the 50% contribution towards the undamaged items.
Ive listened to the calls we hold between Mrs D and Tesco. Having done so, I accept Mrs D 
was informed by Tesco that it would provide a cash settlement for the damaged items and a 
50% contribution to the undamaged items. 
I agree with our investigator here that Tesco couldve been clearer in explaining to Mrs D it 
had the option to pay her a 50% contribution towards any undamaged items if it couldnt 
source a like-for-like replacement for the kitchen doors. I do think it shouldve informed Mrs 
D it was attempting to try to source a similar replacement doors during the claims process. 
But I dont think this means Tesco should increase its cash settlement offer based on the 
fact it couldve been clearer. 
Roughly two weeks into the claims process, after a number of different phone calls between 
Mrs D and Tesco, Tesco emailed Mrs D to tell her it had found a similar kitchen doors 
available online. It provided her with a link to the supplier and told her to order the doors so 
they could be replaced. Because of this it said it would only pay to replace the damaged 
doors, which it thought matched the remaining undamaged doors in the kitchen. This meant 
that it wouldnt contribute 50% towards the undamaged kitchen cupboards, as previously 
discussed. 
I appreciate Mrs Ds frustration here as I know she spent a lot of time sourcing items and 
obtaining quotes from various tradesmen and retailers  which she was informed to do by 
Tesco. However, she said she couldnt source a reasonable match herself. Mrs D also said 
she provided Tesco with a quote for a new kitchen, but it didnt agree to cover these costs, 
or a contribution, under the policy. 
Mrs D said she didnt think Tesco acted fairly by offering a 50% contribution from the outset, 
and later withdrew this. Mrs D also disputed whether the kitchen doors Tesco sourced were 
indeed similar to hers and was concerned of the quality, as she said the price was 
significantly cheaper to what shed paid for her original kitchen doors.  
I understand Mrs Ds argument here. But, whilst I appreciate this will disappoint her as Ive 
seen how passionately shes argued her point of view, I find that Tesco didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably by offering to pay to replace the damage kitchen doors only and not 
contributing 50%.  
I say this because, although I accept Tesco couldve been clearer, it later came to light that 
similar kitchen doors were in fact available. Mrs D argued that the kitchen cupboards 
sourced wouldnt match because of the colour and quality due to the price. But I dont agree 
here that the price of a new replacement kitchen door necessarily means that its not a 
reasonable replacement or not fit for purpose due to its quality. 
Under the policy, Tesco is required to pay Mrs D the costs of replacing the damaged kitchen 
doors to the standards of an effective and long-lasting repair. Ive considered the kitchen 
doors sourced by Tesco, and Im in agreement that its acted fairly and reasonably here.
Ive carefully looked at the photos of both the damaged doors and the replacement doors, 
and Its my view on balance the doors Tesco sourced are of a reasonable style and colour 
match in comparison. So I think it was fair and reasonable in this case for Tesco to only offer 
to replace these as the policy entitles it to do. To settle Mrs Ds claim, Tesco paid her £5,312.23. Part of this payment was for the 
damaged contents Mrs D claimed for under the policy. Mrs D said she incurred a total 
amount of £9,682. If an insurer decides to settle a claim by paying a cash settlement, Id 
expect the cash settlement to reasonably reflect the costs involved to the policyholder rather 
than the rates an insurer would obtain through their own suppliers at more competitive rates. 
During the calls Ive listened to, Mrs D disputed the amount Tesco offered for specific works 
to be completed at her home. Mrs D said she only managed to carry out some of the work by 
sourcing local contractors she knew who carried out the work at a cheaper price.  
Tesco said it used the National Schedule of Rates to compile the scope of works. I also note 
it informed Mrs D during the call if she disputed any amount within the scope of works, it 
would consider any quotes she provided to show what it had offered was unreasonable. I 
dont think it was unreasonable here for Tesco to compile the scope of works remotely given 
this isnt uncommon. I also note part of the settlement paid by Tesco included the cost of 
replacing nine meters of kitchen worktop, but only part of Mrs Ds worktop was damaged due 
to the escape of water. 
Mrs D paid to have her old kitchen ripped out and a new one fitted. I accept Mrs D 
understands this this part of the work she paid for isnt something the insurance policy is 
designed to provide cover for. The policy is intended to put Mrs D back in the position she 
wouldve been in had the loss not occurred. Its my view that Tesco fairly and reasonably did 
this under the policy by offering to replace the damaged doors with similar replacement 
doors.  So I dont require Tesco to do anything further here.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman