DRN-2658826
The complaint
Ms S and Mr S complain that Skipton Building Society delayed implementing a new interest 
rate on their mortgage, meaning they had to go on to the standard variable rate (SVR) for a 
short period. They say this cost them £600 in additional interest and led Ms S to use her 
overdraft to meet the higher payments, incurring charges.
What happened
Ms S and Mr S took out a mortgage with Skipton in 2018. They took a two year fixed interest 
rate, which expired on 31 October 2020. 
On 6 August 2020, Ms S got in touch with Skipton to discuss a new rate. She said she had 
been told by her broker to ask for a valuation to make sure she got the best rate. Skipton 
explained it could look at doing a desktop valuation, but it could only accept a desktop 
valuation if it showed the required degree of confidence.
Ms S agreed. So a desktop valuation was carried out. Skipton explained that the result 
wasnt accurate enough to be relied on, and a physical valuation would be required. Ms S 
complained. She wanted Skipton to accept the result of the desktop valuation.
Skipton responded to the complaint in early September explaining its process for valuations. 
On 21 September, Ms S called Skipton again to arrange a physical valuation. Skipton said 
there was a charge for valuations. As it had been just under two years since the property 
was last valued, Ms S and Mr S were eligible for a reduced valuation fee of £60. Ms S 
complained again because she thought the valuation should be free.
On 12 October, Ms S contacted Skipton again to pay for the valuation. Skipton said that 
because of the time since the last valuation, they had just fallen outside the discount period 
and so the cost of a valuation was now £581. The following day, Skipton agreed to charge 
the reduced figure of £60 even though Ms S and Mr S were no longer eligible for it.
The valuer was then instructed. The valuation was carried out on 28 October and Skipton 
issued new rate offer documents. On 31 October the mortgage reverted to SVR. On 10 
November Ms S and Mr Ss broker returned the offer documents and the new rate was put in 
place with effect from the start of the next month, 1 December.
Ms S and Mr S complained that theyd spent a month on the SVR. Our investigator didnt 
think Skipton had done anything wrong, and so Ms S and Mr S asked for an ombudsman to 
decide their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Skipton has done anything wrong in this case. Ms S contacted 
it in August 2020, which was in good time to arrange a new rate. It explained its process for 
valuations. It was Ms Ss choice to complain rather than agree to go ahead with a physical 
valuation. Ms S has said that she was concerned about a physical valuation during 
coronavirus  but valuers were allowed to work under the restrictions in force at the time. 
And Ms S doesnt live in the property.
It was only several weeks later, with just five weeks to go before the previous rate ended, 
that Ms S decided to go ahead with a physical valuation  but again didnt do so because 
she didnt want to have to pay a fee, even the reduced fee of £60.
Ms S only decided to go ahead with the valuation on 12 October, with less than three weeks 
before the previous rate ended. By then there wasnt enough time to instruct the valuation, 
issue new offer paperwork, get Ms S and Mr S to sign and return it and process the new rate 
by 31 October.
Ms S says that the valuer visited the property on 28 October, three days before the old rate 
expired. But a rate cant be implemented instantly. Skipton needs to assess the valuation, 
generate offer documents, send them out and wait for them to be returned. And  as is 
common practice  Skipton starts new rates at the beginning of a payment period (that is, a 
month).
Im satisfied that 1 December was, realistically, the first opportunity that a new rate could be 
implemented once Ms S finally decided to go ahead on 12 October. And it wasnt Skiptons 
fault that she hadnt decided that before then  it had been clear about what was required 
and its process, but Ms S hadnt accepted that and decided to complain rather than go 
ahead. 
Its unfortunate that Ms S and Mr S were on the SVR for a month. But I dont think that was 
because of anything unreasonable that Skipton did, and I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Skipton to backdate the rate and refund the difference.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman