DRN-2788788
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R, who are represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain 
that they were mis-sold a Childrens Life and Savings Scheme by a predecessor of 
ReAssure Limited (ReAssure).
What happened
In 1993 Mr and Mrs R attended an advice meeting with an advisor. As a result of the 
meeting they took out a 25-year endowment savings plan to benefit their young son. The 
policy was an adaptable savings scheme which would pay out on the occurrence of various 
events. For example, a child reaching the age of 18 or covering the expenses of a wedding. 
Mr and Mrs Rs plan matured in November 2018 and they received just under £15,500. 
In 2019 the CMC complained on behalf of Mr and Mrs R, it said that the policy had been mis-
sold because amongst other things, the plan invested in high risk funds and the term of the 
policy was too long. 
ReAssure investigated this and overall it found that the plan was suitable for Mr and Mrs R. 
However, it said, at the point of sale, the advisor read the attitude to risk score as four rather 
than three which wouldve carried a lower risk. Because of this ReAssure offered £10.00 
compensation to reflect the difference between the return had the premiums been invested 
in a lower risk fund. But it said the term of the policy was suitable as it was a long-term 
savings plan that would ensure Mr and Mrs Rs child had adequate financial protection. 
Unhappy with ReAssures response, the CMC referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think ReAssure needed to do anything more to put things right. In 
short, she said she didnt think the policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs Rs needs and 
although ReAssure invested the money in a higher risk fund, the offer of £10.00 
compensation was enough to put things right. 
The CMC didnt agree, it said the policy was unsuitable because it was too high risk as a 
savings vehicle. It also maintained that the term was too long, the element of life cover was 
unnecessary, and it wanted a refund of premiums plus a return using the Bank of England 
rate plus 1% interest. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the paperwork provided from the point of sale. The scheme was a 25-year 
savings plan which would pay out the sum assured in the event of Mr or Mrs Rs death, 
ensuring their child had adequate protection. I can see Mr and Mrs R had named a child on 
their application form, so its understandable that they wouldve liked some financial 
protection in place. 
The plan could be surrendered free from taxation once it had been held for more than 10 
years or on other milestones such as their son reaching the age of 18 or getting married. It 
could also provide an income and there was a facility for gifting to the child. On balance the 
plan offered flexibility, this is a beneficial feature and I think Mr and Mrs R couldve accessed 
their money before the 25-year term reached maturity if they needed to. Mr and Mrs Rs 
policy did mature in November 2018, paying out a lump sum just under £15,500 which 
returned more than the premiums they had paid in. Im satisfied the plan was financially 
beneficial. 
The plan also provided the additional benefit of life assurance, but the CMC says this was 
unnecessary. 
Having thought about the underlying element of life cover, I think it adds the benefit that Mr 
and Mrs Rs child would receive money from the plan in the event of their death. It also made 
the policy qualifying for tax purposes which wouldve been beneficial in the event it was 
surrendered or paid out upon the plan maturing. ReAssure has also highlighted that Mr and 
Mrs Rs fact find shows that life cover was marked as a priority and given their 
circumstances at the time I think this is more likely than not to have been the case. 
Overall, I dont think, given the specific circumstances of Mr and Mrs R at the time, that the 
length of the plan and inclusive life cover were unsuitable.
ReAssure has accepted it made an error when recording the attitude to risk, so what I need 
to determine is whether it has done enough to put things right. I can see that Mr and Mrs R 
had recorded an attitude to risk of 3-4 so I dont think its unreasonable to say they were 
willing to take a medium amount of risk at the time. The funds that were recommended 
carried a risk rating of 4, whilst on the higher side, does sit broadly within their attitude to risk 
based on the risk scaling provided at the time.
 
From the information I have, I can see Mr and Mrs R had previous investment experience as 
prior to taking out the plan they had several other investments and so Im persuaded that this 
wasnt their first-time investing money.  
The CMC has said it would like ReAssure to refund all premiums paid plus interest using the 
Bank of England rate plus 1% interest. Under the circumstances I think the policy was 
suitable and so I find that its reasonable for ReAssure to have made a comparison with an 
alternative fund that would be slightly more in line with Mr and Mrs Rs likely attitude to risk. 
 
ReAssure has already made an offer to pay Mr and Mrs R £10.00 compensation to settle the 
complaint to cover the fund value difference of £7.47. Its offer was rounded up but does 
reflect the return that wouldve been generated by the funds had ReAssure invested the 
money in a lower risk fund. I think this offer is fair and reasonable as overall the policy was 
suitable.  
Having considered everything its clear that Mr and Mrs R wanted to take out a savings plan 
to benefit their child in the future and I think this plan met with that objective. While there 
may have been other products available, Im considering the suitability of the sale of this product. Having done so, I find it was broadly consistent with Mr and Mrs Rs objectives and 
their wider circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that ReAssure Limited should pay Mr and 
Mrs R £10.00 to settle this complaint as it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman