DRN-4506148
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on her motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
For the year from late March 2022, Mrs R had a comprehensive policy with Aviva.
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle. Mrs R acquired 
the car new in early June 2022 on a finance agreement.
From early June 2022, Mrs R put the car on the policy. Any claim for damage (except a 
glass claim) was subject to a policy excess of £300.00.
Unfortunately, in mid-December 2022, Mrs R reported that a third party vehicle had hit the 
rear of her car and shunted it into a parked vehicle.
At first, Mrs R dealt with the third partys insurer.
From late January 2023, Mrs R asked Aviva to deal with her claim.
By mid-April 2023, Mrs R had complained to Aviva about delay, poor communication and 
poor service.
Aviva said the car was a total loss.
In early June 2023, Aviva offered Mrs R £25,350.00 as the pre-accident value of the car.
Avivas file says that on 9 June 2023, it told Mrs R of her right to bring her complaint to us.
Mrs R asked us to investigate.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that 
Aviva had made a fair offer of £25,350.00. However, he thought that Mrs R struggled to 
communicate with Aviva on several occasions, there were avoidable delays in getting the car 
from the third partys insurer and in assessing the car and reaching a reasonable settlement. 
The claim process has had a serious effect on Mrs Rs health, the investigator said.
The investigator recommended that Aviva should pay Mrs R £300.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs R   
and to Aviva on 27 November 2023. I summarise my findings:
I wouldve expected Aviva to make payment within a month of receiving the claim. So 
(in the absence of a copy of the finance agreement) I was minded to find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Aviva to pay Mrs R interest at our usual rate on the figure of 
£25,350.00 from 28 February 2023 to 6 June 2023.
Avivas shortcomings caused Mrs R extra upset and inconvenience at an already 
difficult time for her. I was minded to agree with the investigator that £300.00 is fair 
and reasonable in line with our published guidelines. 
Subject to any further information either from Mrs R or from Aviva, my provisional decision 
was to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs R:
1. simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on the amount of £25,350.00 from 28 February 
2023 to 6 June 2023. If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs R how much its taken off. It 
should also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
2. £300.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs R disagreed with the provisional decision. Her representative says, in summary, as 
follows:
The accident happened outside her property.
Our investigator increased the offer to £500.00.
They have provided medical evidence.
She has suffered excessive stress and anxiety. Her doctor will support this.
Aviva did lose her vehicle. 
Aviva hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initial claim-handling
At first, Mrs R was dealing directly with the third partys insurer. I think that insurer provided 
her with a hire vehicle. The third partys insurer was treating the damaged car as a total loss.
I dont hold Aviva responsible for anything that happened before Mrs R asked Aviva to 
handle her claim  in late January 2023. From Avivas file, I think that it supplied a hire car 
from early February 2023.
Im satisfied that Aviva contacted the third partys insurer promptly.
The third partys insurer and its vehicle salvage company were responsible for the location of 
the damaged car. So I dont accept that Aviva lost the car. I dont hold Aviva responsible for 
the salvage companys delay in responding to Aviva.
In late March 2023, Aviva considered terminating the hire car, but decided to extend it.
In mid-April 2023, the third partys insurer confirmed to Aviva that it accepted liability.From about 19 April 2023, Aviva looked into new car replacement.
New car replacement
Avivas policy terms included the following:
New car replacement
We will replace your car with one of the same make, model and specification 
(providing one is available in the UK) if the principal policyholder, vehicle policyholder 
or partner are the first registered keeperand within 12 months of buying it from 
new:
 any repair cost or damage in respect of one claim is more than 60% of the cars UK 
list price (including car tax and VAT), or
 it is stolen and not recovered.
We will only replace your car if the principal policyholder, vehicle policyholder or 
partner purchased it:
 outright, or
 under a finance agreement where ownership passes to the principal policyholder, 
vehicle policyholder or partner and the Finance Company agrees.
So Aviva would replace a damaged car if those criteria were met.
In mid-May 2023, the finance company agreed to accept new car replacement. However, 
Aviva found that the UK list price of the car was over £30,000.00. Its engineer estimated the 
cost of repairs at about £12,500.00.
So the estimated cost of repairs was much less than 60% of the list price and Mrs R didnt 
meet the criteria for new car replacement. I dont consider that Aviva treated Mrs R unfairly 
by applying its criteria. 
Total Loss
I can see why Mrs Rs representative said that Aviva should repair the car. But I havent 
seen enough evidence to support his statement that Aviva agreed to do a repair. Rather Ive 
seen evidence that Aviva wanted to assess the vehicle.
Avivas policy terms allowed it to decide whether to repair the car or to pay its pre-accident 
market value. Nevertheless, we would expect an insurer to treat a damaged vehicle as a 
total loss if the estimated cost of repairs was a high percentage (say 60-70%) of the vehicles 
pre-accident value.
In Mrs Rs case, the estimated cost of repairs was about £12,500.00 which was about 50% 
of the pre-accident value of about £25,000.00.
However, the third party insurer had already treated the car as a total loss. Aviva made the 
same assessment. The vehicle had suffered damage to its rear and front. Aviva said it had 
structural damage.
I dont consider that theres enough engineering evidence to say that both insurers were 
wrong to treat the car as a total loss. I dont consider that Aviva treated Mrs R unfairly by 
treating the car as a total loss rather than repairing it.
Aviva waived the policy excess of £300.00. It paid the finance company an early settlement 
figure of £24,124.98 and paid Mrs R the balance of £1,225.02.Delay and Service
Ive reviewed the emails form Mrs Rs representative and Avivas file. I consider that Aviva 
shouldve communicated more clearly about important issues such as the third partys 
acceptance of liability and the waiver of the excess. Overall, Aviva shouldve been more 
proactive in settling Mrs Rs claim before early June 2023.
Financial loss and interest
From its file, I find that Aviva asked Mrs R for a copy of the finance agreement, but she didnt 
provide it. Nevertheless I have no reason to doubt her representatives statement that Mrs R 
was paying about £450.00 per month.
Mrs R had, no doubt, committed to make such payments (including an element of interest) or 
to settle the agreement early. Its not uncommon for an early settlement figure to exceed the 
current market value of the vehicle. (That can be covered by GAP insurance but I 
understand that Mrs R had no such cover.)
Also Aviva provided a hire car (albeit probably smaller than hers).
So I wouldnt find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to reimburse any of Mrs Rs monthly 
payments or road tax during any identifiable period of delay.
However, I wouldve expected Aviva to have made a total loss valuation much sooner, and 
to have made at least an interim payment to Mrs R much sooner than early June 2023. I 
wouldve expected Aviva to make payment within a month of receiving the claim.
So (in the absence of a copy of the finance agreement) I find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Aviva to pay Mrs R interest at our usual rate on the figure of £25,350.00 from 28 February 
2023 to 6 June 2023.
Distress and inconvenience
In my view, the accident and the need to make a claim were bound to cause Mrs R upset 
and inconvenience including the need to contact Aviva and to provide information. I dont 
find it fair and reasonable to hold Aviva responsible for that. Also I dont hold Aviva 
responsible for the acts and omissions of the third party, their insurer or (while it was acting 
for that insurer) the salvage company.
I have no reason to doubt that Mrs R has suffered a great deal. However, theres not enough 
medical evidence to show cause and effect between the shortcomings in Avivas service and 
Mrs Rs mental health.
Nevertheless, I accept that Avivas shortcomings caused Mrs R extra upset and 
inconvenience at an already difficult time for her. I conclude that £300.00 is fair and 
reasonable in line with our published guidelines.
Response to the provisional decision
After his opinion in July 2023, our investigator asked Mrs Rs representative whether she 
would accept £500.00, in which case he would try to mediate that with Aviva. But the 
representative said Mrs R would not accept such a settlement.
As Ive said, theres not enough medical evidence to show cause and effect between the 
shortcomings in Avivas service and Mrs Rs mental health.As Ive said, the third partys insurer and its vehicle salvage company were responsible for 
the location of the damaged car. So I dont accept that Aviva lost the car. 
Putting things right
Overall, I conclude that its fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay Mrs R:
1. interest at our usual rate on the figure of £25,350.00 from 28 February 2023 to 6 
June 2023; and
2. £300.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs R:
1. simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on the amount of £25,350.00 from 28 February 
2023 to 6 June 2023. If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs R how much its taken off. It 
should also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
2. £300.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman