DRN-3156993
The complaint
Ms D and Mr Q complain that AWP P&C SA has turned down a cancellation claim Ms D 
made on their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
In April 2019, Ms D booked a holiday abroad in a country Ill call N. She arranged a retreat 
through an international provider. She was due to travel between 2 and 10 April 2020. Ms D 
and Mr Q took out a Trailfinders annual travel insurance policy though a broker in 
December 2019. Cover under the policy began on 1 January 2020.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On 
15 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the 
FCO) advised against all but essential travel to N. And on 17 March 2020, the FCDO 
advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad. 
These restrictions remained in place at the point Ms D was due to travel and therefore, her 
trip had to be cancelled. Ms D sought a refund of her cancellation costs from her trip 
provider, but this was declined. So Ms D made a claim on her travel insurance policy for the 
costs associated with cancelling her holiday. 
AWP turned down Ms Ds claim. It said the circumstances of it werent covered by the policy 
terms and conditions.
Ms D and Mr Q were unhappy with AWPs decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator thought that this complaint should be upheld. He accepted that
the policy didnt cover cancellation due to a change in FCDO advice. But he noted that the
policy specifically excluded any cover at all if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice.
This meant Ms D wouldnt have been covered if shed cancelled and she wouldnt
have been covered if she travelled. He didnt think the policy terms made the combined
effect of these terms clear. And he considered that if Ms D had been aware that she
wouldnt be covered if FCDO guidance changed before she travelled, she and Mr Q 
wouldve been unlikely to take out the policy. So he felt it would be fair for AWP to assess 
Ms Ds claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
AWP didnt respond to our investigators assessment by the deadlines we gave. So the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for AWP to turn down Ms Ds claim and Ill
explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for
Business) say:
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to:
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
customer;
handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an
informed decision about the arrangements proposed. Appropriate information includes the
information that must be set out in an IPID, which gives customers an at a glance summary
of their cover. This includes a summary of the insurance cover, including the main risks
insured, the insured sum and, where applicable, the geographical scope and summary of
excluded risks.
Relevant regulatory guidance (the FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors
for the Fair Treatment of Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions 
or inactions  on the customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided.  
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On
page 2, it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Travel Advice Unit of
the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised
against travel, unless agreed otherwise with the insurer.
Page 18 of the policy terms and conditions set out the listed, insured events which AWP
covers if a policyholder curtails their trip. These are:
1 The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders of a 
treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under current redundancy legislation, 
cancellation of leave for British Forces, police or government security staff, summoning to 
jury service or witness attendance in a court of you or your travelling companion.
2 The death, serious injury or illness of,
a a close relative, or
b the person with whom you intend to reside at the
holiday or journey destination, or
c a dependent business partner;of you or your travelling companion which necessitates the presence of the person 
concerned.
3 Hijack.
4 Adverse weather conditions making it impossible for you to travel to initial point of 
departure at commencement of outward journey.
5 Major damage or burglary at your home or place of business which at the request of an 
emergency service requires your presence.
The policy also sets out a list of specific things AWP doesnt cover and which apply to the
whole policy. This includes the following, on page 14 of the policy:
You travelling to a country, specific area or event to which the Travel Advice unit of the
British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised
against travel, unless agreed by or on behalf of the insurer.
Was it unreasonable for AWP to turn down the claim?
Ms D cancelled her trip because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to N. 
Thats not something that is covered under the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a 
specific or listed insured event. However, taking into account the relevant law and industry 
guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of 
this case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Ms D had travelled to N (in
the event that it was possible for her to do so), shed have not followed FCDO advice. So
it seems she wouldnt have been covered by any of the policy terms and conditions.
But, under the terms and conditions of the contract, cancellation of a holiday due to changes
in FCDO guidance also isnt covered by the policy. 
I dont think that was made sufficiently clear to Ms D and Mr Q. They wouldve needed to 
read the full policy terms and conditions in order to understand that this set of circumstances 
wasnt covered. And, regardless of the presence of a cooling off period in the contract, I 
dont think that this information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent 
way. So, I dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear.
In my view, this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Ms D and 
Mr Q and AWP. I think its unlikely that Ms D and Mr Q wouldve purchased the policy if 
theyd realised that there was no cover under the contract if the FCDO guidance changed 
after theyd bought it. And, at the time Ms D and Mr Q bought the policy, they wouldve been 
able to find cover elsewhere which did cover the circumstances Ms D subsequently found 
herself in.
It's clear that the situation which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 was unprecedented and
couldnt have been foreseen by either insurers or policyholders. But for the reasons Ive
outlined, and in these circumstances, I think the fair and reasonable outcome here is for
AWP to treat Ms Ds claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy and to 
assess it in line with the remaining terms and conditions.
  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
I direct AWP P&C SA to treat Ms Ds claim as covered under the cancellation section
of the policy and to assess it in line with the remaining terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman