DRN-2258998
The complaint
Mr S says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mr S between June and 
December 2018. Mr Ss borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 23/06/2018 04/12/2018 4 £200.00 £109.20
2 04/12/2018 Outstanding 6 £200.00 £76.53
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint and thought Mr Lenders checks for the loans 
went far enough. Mr S disagreed and said he was struggling financially. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators view because he thought Mr Lenders checks didnt go 
far enough and it should have been aware that he was struggling financially. So, it shouldnt 
have lent to him.
Mr Lender has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mr S about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of £1,300. Mr Lender also checked Mr Ss normal 
monthly living costs. Mr S declared these to be between £700 and £772 per month. Mr 
Lender says it also searched Mr Ss credit file. Ive seen a copy of those results and there 
werent any recent adverse entries like defaults, county court judgements (CCJs) or 
excessive borrowing from short-term lenders recorded on it at the time each of the loans 
were taken out. So, I dont think there was anything that should have prompted Mr Lender to 
do further checks
Mr Ss history of borrowing with this lender was relatively early on  he only borrowed from 
Mr Lender two times over a six-month period. And even though he had to make monthly 
repayments, the highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the 
information he declared to Mr Lender. And there wasnt anything in the information Mr S 
provided which would have given Mr Lender cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable 
of Mr Lender to have relied on what Mr S told it. 
I think the time Mr S had been indebted to Mr Lender and the information hed provided to it 
had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for Mr Lender to carry 
out. Given these, I think the checks Mr Lender carried out before lending the loans went far 
enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth checks. 
The information Mr S declared to Mr Lender at the time of the loans may not have been an 
accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think Mr Lender was entitled to rely 
on that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Mr Lender knew about     
Mr S, I wouldnt have expected Mr Lender to verify the information Mr S gave it. This 
therefore means, I cant say that its done something wrong in lending Mr S these loans.
Ive noted Mr Ss comments about the fact we have not asked to see copies of his bank 
statements or credit report. We would normally only ask to see these types of documents if 
we thought a lender hadnt done proportionate checks before lending to a consumer and we 
needed to see what the consumers financial situation was like at the time. But as explained 
above, in this case, I dont think Mr Lender needed to do anymore than it had, so I dont 
need to see what Mr Ss finances were like. 
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr S, and Im very sorry to hear about 
his current financial difficulties. However, I hope my explanation will help him understand 
why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint and make no award against PDL Finance Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman