DRN-4322533
The complaint
Miss F complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund the money she lost in a 
romance scam.
What happened
Miss F says that she started to chat to someone she met on a dating site. Ill refer to this 
person as D in this decision. The chat moved from the dating site to a messaging app. When 
Miss F first started to talk to D, he was in the UK but a few weeks later he said he needed to 
go aboard for a prosperous work project. D presented himself as a rich man and said he 
owned a company that Miss F looked up online. D also said that his wife had died.
After around a month of chatting D told Miss F that he was unable to gain access to his 
Swiss bank account while he was abroad. He said hed tried to resolve the matter by phone, 
but the bank said it could only deal with him in person. D gave Miss F access to this account 
and asked her to transfer funds for him, but she was unable to do so. Miss F was able to see 
that D had a substantial balance in his account though and agreed to lend him some money 
for general expenses. In December 2020 Miss F transferred 3,004.25 USD and in January 
2021 she made a further payment. 
D then said he planned to come to the UK to visit but before he came, he told Miss F that 
one of his employees had been involved in an accident when a piece of equipment failed. 
The employees family was threatening to kill D if he didnt pay compensation. The family, 
police and Ds lawyer came to an agreement about the amount D would need to pay but D 
said he couldnt leave until the matter was sorted out. He asked Miss F to lend him further 
funds and told her hed pay her back double what she lent him. D said a friend had also 
taken out a loan to cover some of the £50,000 the family demanded.
D arranged for a lawyer who pretended to be based in the UK to speak to Miss F and explain 
that when D was back in the UK, he would repay her. The lawyer also drew up a loan 
agreement. 
Miss F took out a loan with another business and then transferred 30,048.11USD to D on 29 
January 2021. D then asked for further funds and said he was in jail and Miss F realised she 
was the victim of a scam.
I have set out in the table below the payments Miss F made to D.
Date Amount in USD Recipient
31/12/20 3,004.25 1
06/01/21 5,004.25 1
29/01/21 30,048.11 2
Miss F reported the scam to Wise on 15 February 2021. At that stage Wise said it had 
blocked the recipient and advised Miss F to report the matter to the police. Miss F brought a 
complaint through her representative in December 2022. Wise referred to its terms of use 
and said that it cant get involved in disputes between senders and recipients and that once 
it became aware of the scam it blacklisted the recipient. 
Miss F was unhappy with Wises response. She said that Wise had failed to pick up on out of 
character payments that were indicative of fraud and that had it done so the scam would 
have been exposed. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in part. He 
said that prior to the scam the account had been used for small retail payments below £100. 
The first scam payment was higher, but this alone wasnt enough to alert Wise to potential 
fraud. But by the third payment there was a clear change of account usage and Wise should 
have intervened. Given that Miss F was paying an account on the instructions of someone 
shed recently met on social media and the far-fetched nature of the request for payment the 
investigator felt the scam would have been uncovered.
But the investigator felt that Miss F should only receive 50% of the second and third 
payments. He said this for a number of reasons including:
- Miss F should have been wary about someone shed never met sharing financial 
information.
- It was odd that someone who presented as being rich only had one bank account 
with all his funds in.
- There was nothing to connect the social media pictures Miss F saw with D and the 
checks she completed didnt confirm she was communicating with the genuine 
person. 
- If Miss F had checked the business addresses provided, shed have been led to 
question what she was being told. 
-  The story about an employee dying was farfetched and should have led Miss F to 
ask questions.
In response to the investigators view Wise put forward a new offer  to reimburse half of the 
third payment plus interest. Wise didnt feel that it should have intervened when the second 
payment was made because the recipient wasnt new, and the transaction didnt cause any 
concern. Wise said it could possibly have sent an online warning but given the nature of the 
scam it was unlikely to make a difference. But Wise recognised it could have done more 
when the third payment was made. 
Miss F also didnt agree with the investigators findings. She asked for the 50% deduction to 
be reconsidered for the following reasons:
- Wise had significantly more knowledge of romance scams than Miss F and the view 
didnt take into account the pernicious nature of romance scams and the emotional 
hold romance scammers have on their victims. 
- Scammers in romance scams play on loneliness and vulnerabilities. Miss Fs 
representative said that Miss F had been diagnosed with depression and during the 
pandemic when she was particularly lonely some of her medication had been 
doubled.  
- Providing access to his account was a ploy by D to show he was rich.
- The inability to gain access to his funds was a solid reason for the scammer to ask 
for funds.
- Miss F wasnt good with technology and couldnt have done things like checking 
addresses. 
- The employee death story may seem far-fetched to someone who isnt being 
manipulated but in her vulnerable position Miss F didnt question what she was told. The complaint was passed to me, and I issued my provisional decision on 13 September 
2023. I said I was provisionally minded to require Wise to reimburse half of the final payment 
plus interest. In the What Ive provisionally decided - and why section I said, 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where the evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of 
probabilities  which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the 
evidence available and the surrounding circumstances.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. And a customer will then be responsible for 
those transactions that they have authorised. 
Its not in dispute here that Miss F authorised the payments. She accepts she made them 
herself, as instructed to by the scammer. So, while I recognise that she didnt intend the 
money to go to a scammer, the starting position in law is that Wise was obliged to follow her 
instructions and process the payments. So, Miss F isnt automatically entitled to a refund. 
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice at the time, also set out an 
expectation for account providers to consider the interests of their customers and treat them 
fairly. And I think this included monitoring accounts to look out for unusual activity and trying 
to protect customers from fraud and financial harm. So Ive also thought about whether Wise 
did enough to try to keep Miss Fs account safe.
Having considered Miss Fs account activity for the 12-month period before the scam I agree 
with the investigator that the first payment didnt stand out given its value and the fact Wise 
is an international money transfer platform. The second payment was made six days later 
and was to the same payee Miss F set up at the end of December. At this stage I dont 
believe there was an unusual pattern of transactions The amount was greater than the first 
transaction but still relatively low and not one I think Wise ought reasonably to have had 
concerns about, particularly given the nature of the service it provides. 
The third payment though was out of character, and I note that in its response to the 
investigators view Wise accepts it could have done more and has offered to refund 50% of 
this payment. So I dont need to go into any detail about why I think Wise should have 
intervened. For completeness though Ill add that Im persuaded that had Wise intervened I 
believe the scam would have been uncovered as I have no reason to believe Miss F 
wouldnt have been honest. There were many hallmarks of a romance scam that I think Wise 
would have rapidly uncovered. 
I turn now to whether Miss F should be held partly responsible for her loss. My assessment 
of Miss Fs actions is hampered by the fact that I havent been provided with the messages 
Miss F exchanged with D. All I have seen are some emails exchanged after Miss F has lost 
her money.
Ive considered the matter carefully and have provisionally decided that a 50% liability split is 
fair. Ill explain why:
-The initial request for payment was unlikely and ought reasonably to have caused 
concern. If D really was the CEO of a successful business as he led Miss F to believe 
I find it hard to understand why he wouldnt have access to funds via any other 
means, like a personal account or savings accounts. 
-Theres no suggestion that Miss F questioned why D was asking someone he had 
exchanged messages with online for a short period to provide funds for expenses 
rather than using an alternative account or turning to friends and family.-The reason given by the scammer for the second payment is particularly far-fetched 
and ought reasonably to have led to a much greater degree of scrutiny, particularly in 
the absence of any proof. No messages between Miss F and D have been provided 
but my impression is that D was due to come to the UK and was unexpectedly 
prevented from doing so following the death of an employee. If an accident had 
occurred as described by D there would be an investigation before any fine or other 
payment so the immediate payment D requested was strange.  The story that an 
agreement was reached between D, the police and Ds lawyer was also very unusual 
and ought reasonably to have caused concern. 
-D told Miss F he would pay her back double what he had borrowed. This is a huge 
amount which seems too good to be true. And Miss F needed to take out a loan to 
provide these funds.
-There is nothing to link D to the business he said he was the CEO of, and a quick 
search shows that Ds claims are untrue. I appreciate Miss Fs technology skills were 
limited but think a basic search of this nature could have been performed if Miss F 
was able to navigate a dating site and exchange messages with D. 
-Miss F never saw D on a video chat to link him to the social media pictures he 
provided.
-Miss Fs representative has referred to a lawyer who drew up a loan agreement. I 
have seen an agreement, but its dated 8 February 2021. As this was after Miss F 
sent D the funds from the loan she had taken out. it cant have had any influence on 
her decision to trust what D told her. And in any event, Miss F said she didnt take 
any steps to check the law firm was genuine.    
I appreciate that Miss F suffered with depression and had increased her medication and 
thought she was in a relationship with D. I have no doubt this impacted her decision making 
to some degree, but I think she placed a huge amount of trust in someone she had never 
met and hadnt communicated with for very long. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Miss F should share responsibility with Wise for the 
final payment.
It seems that Wise took much longer than it should to recall the funds but in this particular 
case I think this is unlikely to have made a difference as the payments were international.
Both parties responded to say they accept my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision (reproduced above), so I see no reason to 
depart from it.
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I require Wise Payments Limited to:
- Refund Miss F 15,024.06USD converted to GDP at the rate that applied on the day 
of the transaction;
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
the transaction to the date of settlement. 
If Wise Payments Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss F how much it has taken off. It should also give Miss F a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman