DRN-4177960
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc didnt make it clear to him that his current account 
was overdrawn, and this impacted his credit file. Hes also unhappy that it was fees and 
charges associated with a transaction made abroad which took the account overdrawn, and 
these costs werent highlighted to him. 
In addition, Mr H is unhappy that he incurred international call costs in trying to sort things 
out and this matter has taken up a lot of time for him. 
What happened
Mr H was living abroad at the time in question, but was using his Bank of Scotland account 
for some of his banking needs. 
On 23 March 2022 Mr H used the account to purchase some tickets abroad. The transaction 
was for £1,689.39 which was verified with Bank of Scotlands fraud team. The associated 
costs with the transaction were a 2.99% foreign currency transaction fee based on the 
transaction amount (£50.51), and a foreign currency purchase fee of £0.50. These costs 
took Mr Hs account overdrawn by £41.72 into an unarranged overdraft. 
The account returned to credit on 9 May 2022 following a faster payment that was made into 
the account. 
Mr H says he became aware that the account was overdrawn after he checked his credit file 
in June 2022. He also says hed not been made aware of the costs associated with the 
transaction as he didnt regularly use that account. He made several calls (from abroad) to 
Bank of Scotland on 17 June 2022 about the matter which took up a lot of his time, and 
included having to repeat himself when calls kept dropping. 
Mr H complained to Bank of Scotland who concluded theyd not done anything wrong in 
terms of applying the costs associated with the transaction, or how the account was being 
reported to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). Bank of Scotland also said a SMS alert 
had been sent to Mr H on 24 March 2022 letting him know the account had gone overdrawn. 
They also said Mr H could access his account statements through the banking app and 
through telephone banking, and that Mr H had a responsibility to monitor his account. So 
Bank of Scotland didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint in this regard. 
However, Bank of Scotland did offer Mr H £180 to cover the cost of calling them from 
abroad, and £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the service hed received 
from them in relation to these calls. 
Our Investigator thought the offer put forward by Bank of Scotland was fair in the 
circumstances, and they felt Bank of Scotland had been reasonable in trying to notify Mr H 
that his account had gone overdrawn. 
Mr H didnt agree. He maintained that Bank of Scotland had not adequately notified him that 
his account had entered into an overdraft and he said Bank of Scotland was wrongly 
reporting the account to the CRAs. This was because he said the overdraft was being 
reported as missed payments, and this was misleading. 
Our Investigator further explained to Mr H it was generally accepted that customers have a 
responsibility to check the status of their accounts, and they said that Bank of Scotland had 
an obligation to inform CRAs about the status of an account. 
As a resolution could not be reached, the complaint came to me to decide. And after an 
initial review of the case, Mr H was approached for some further information.
Mr H was asked to provide a copy of his credit file, as well as evidence of the call costs that 
hed incurred. In addition, Mr H was asked to comment on some of the information below 
contained in his current account statements. 
Firstly, Mr H was asked about payments to and from his holiday account to the account in 
question. £100 was paid from the holiday account into the current account on 7 February 
2022; a payment for £1,700 was then received into the current account (from someone else) 
on 21 March 2022; and a further £300 was paid from the holiday account into the current 
account on 21 March 2022. However, on the same day (21 March 2022) £400 was then 
removed from the current account as a faster payment back into the holiday account. 
It was noted that the removal of the £400 on 21 March 2022 left Mr Hs current account with 
a balance of £1,698.68 effectively meaning the £1,700 was being used to cover the cost of 
the tickets, therefore suggesting more likely than not these were a planned purchase. It was 
also noted that there appeared to be a variable foreign exchange rate applicable to the 
transaction, so that even setting aside the associated transaction costs it was still possible 
that the £1,700 may not have been enough to cover the ticket costs. 
Secondly, Mr H was also asked to comment on the fact that his statements showed several 
previous international transactions which had all incurred the same associated costs.  
In view of these observations it was suggested to Mr H that factoring in the need to 
accommodate the exchange rate, given the small margin between the ticket costs and the 
available balance, it would have been reasonable to check this particular transaction on his 
statements. Not least because the transaction had also initially been stopped for fraud 
checks. 
Mr H was asked to comment on all of the above. However, he did not respond to the request 
for further comments, and it was explained to Mr H that if there was no reply, a decision 
would be reached based on the available evidence and submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has said Bank of Scotland should have told him his account had entered into an 
unarranged overdraft. 
Bank of Scotland have provided a copy of a guide booklet available to their customers. This 
says that unarranged overdraft alerts will be sent out if Bank of Scotland have a mobile 
number for the customer. So an alert would be sent out when the customer is about to use 
or has started to use an unarranged overdraft. The guide further explains that customers can stop and start this service at any time. And 
that a customer can check Bank of Scotland hold a valid mobile number for them, or set one 
up by using Internet Banking, going into branch, or calling Bank of Scotland. The guide also 
explains more information is available about alerts on Bank of Scotlands website and that if 
going abroad, the customer may still receive alerts but they should check for any charges 
with their mobile provider.  
From the available submissions, it seems more likely than not that Mr H was enrolled in 
Bank of Scotlands service to receive alerts to his phone should he be about to use or start 
using an unarranged overdraft. And Bank of Scotland say that on 21 March 2022 Mr H was 
informed he could change his number using telephone banking and a security number. 
The transaction in question went through on 23 March 2022, and Bank of Scotlands 
submissions are that the SMS alert was sent to Mr H on 24 March 2022 and it said, Youre 
using an unarranged overdraft. If you can, please pay cleared funds in by 2:30pm to keep 
making payments. Bank of Scotlands submissions are limited, so it's not clear what number 
was used, or whether it was successfully delivered. But I think in the circumstances, given 
the available information, its fair to say it seems more likely than not that an alert was sent in 
relation to Mr Hs account. 
Bank of Scotlands submissions are that they checked with their telephone and internet 
banking services during the course of the investigation to see if Mr H had contacted them to 
change his phone number, but they were unable to find any record of such a request. So it 
doesnt appear that Mr H attempted to change his phone number with them. 
Unfortunately the phone calls from 21 March 2022 havent been made available, and Bank 
of Scotland have not provided any account notes from March 2022, so its difficult for me to 
know what was said between Mr H and Bank of Scotland when the discussion around his 
phone number took place. But I would note that customers also have a responsibility to keep 
their contact details up to date with their bank, and Ive not seen enough to make me think 
Bank of Scotland have acted unfairly towards Mr H in terms of sending the SMS alert to the 
last number Mr H confirmed to them.  
Im mindful that as well as having a responsibility to ensure their contact details are up to 
date, customers also have a responsibility to ensure they are managing their accounts 
responsibly.
There are two different types of overdrafts. These are referred to as authorised and 
unauthorised overdrafts. An authorised overdraft is something agreed by the banking 
provider for the customer to use as a form of borrowing  so it is not automatically applied to 
all accounts. Where a customer doesnt have enough money in their account, and does not 
have an authorised overdraft, the bank may allow a payment or transaction to still go through 
by using an unauthorised overdraft. However, an unauthorised overdraft can impact an 
individuals credit file. 
Mr H did not have an authorised overdraft, so when the cost of the tickets exceeded the 
available balance in his account, I think Bank of Scotland acted reasonably by allowing the 
transaction to still go through  although it then meant Mr H was using an unauthorised 
overdraft. 
As noted earlier, Mr H had a responsibility to check how he was managing his account. Ive 
not seen anything to suggest Mr H was unable to access his statements to do this. He could 
access them online, through the banking app or he could have called Bank of Scotlands 
telephone banking service. I also think, in the circumstances, this particular transaction would have been of more 
interest to Mr H to ensure it had gone through. This is because the tickets were for a one-off 
event (so this was a planned purchased), the transaction had undergone fraud verification 
checks, and the available balance in the account allowed a small margin for error to 
purchase the tickets (given it needed to factor in an exchange rate and the associated costs 
for making purchases abroad in a foreign currency - which are set out in Bank of Scotlands 
terms and conditions online). 
I think Mr H was more likely than not aware of the balance in the account given the 
transactions leading up to the ticket purchase, and I think he wouldve more likely than not 
known such a transaction would be subject to interest exchange rates and costs (because of 
his previous usage of the account). 
So it seems reasonable to say there was nothing preventing Mr H from being able to see his 
account for himself, and given the transaction Mr H was making I think this wouldve more 
likely than not been the time that he would do so. 
As part of his complaint Mr H has said the account was not being reported correctly on his 
credit file as he said it was showing as missed payments which he says is misleading to 
prospective lenders. As Mr H did not provide a copy of his credit file when asked, Ive not 
been able to see exactly what was being reported  although within the submissions 
available to me, Bank of Scotland and Mr H have both referred to missed payments. 
Bank of Scotland have an obligation to provide accurate and up to date information to CRAs 
about the status of accounts they hold for their customers. And as Mr H was using an 
unauthorised overdraft, I think it would be reasonable for this to be reported on Mr Hs credit 
file  particularly if he didnt quickly clear it. So overall, Im unable to say Bank of Scotland 
are doing anything wrong by reporting the use of the unauthorised overdraft. 
It may help to explain that an unauthorised overdraft will appear on a credit report as a debt 
to be repaid, and so I dont think Bank of Scotland would be unreasonable or unfair by 
reporting the account as having had missed payments. And Ive not seen any evidence, as 
mentioned by Mr H, that a default was recorded in relation to this matter. In the 
circumstances, I would consider a default to have been unlikely given the account was, at 
most, likely to have only shown use of an unauthorised overdraft for two months. 
Bank of Scotland offered to pay Mr H £230 in total for the cost and customer service he 
experienced when calling Bank of Scotland in June 2022. I understand Mr H did not accept 
this offer as it did not involve correcting his credit file. Ive not seen any record of how much 
the calls in question did cost Mr H, however, having reviewed a range of potential cost of 
calls for the call times Bank of Scotland have noted  using mobile services  between the 
country Mr H was residing in at the time and the UK, I think the offer of £180 to cover these 
is not unreasonable in the circumstances. And it also doesnt appear Mr H has disputed this 
part of Bank of Scotlands offer. I also think the £50 for the customer service relating to the 
calls on 17 June 2022 doesnt seem unreasonable either, based on the available 
submissions. 
Putting things right
To settle this matter Bank of Scotland plc should pay their offer of £230 to Mr H. If Bank of 
Scotland plc have already made any payment of this offer to Mr H, this should be deducted 
from the £230.  My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I think Bank of Scotlands offer to recognise 
the experience Mr H had with the calls associated with this matter is fair in the 
circumstances. 
I think Bank of Scotland acted reasonably by applying the associated costs for the 
transaction abroad and reporting the account to the CRAs. I also think that in the 
circumstances it was reasonable for Bank of Scotland to send the SMS alert to the number 
they had available.  
Bank of Scotland plc should put things right as Ive described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman