DRN-2780871
The complaint
Mr W (by the way of a representative) has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as 
Lending Stream) gave him unaffordable loans. 
What happened
Mr W took seven instalment loans from Lending Stream between August 2015 and April 
2017. A summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from the lender 
can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo. of Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount Borrowed
1 22/08/2015 24/02/2016 6 £100.00
2 31/10/2015 14/04/2016 6 £620.00
3 28/12/2015 14/04/2016 6 £160.00
gap in lending 
4 28/12/2016 outstanding 6 £500.00
5 07/01/2017 outstanding 6 £380.00
6 21/03/2017 outstanding 6 £250.00
7 14/04/2017 outstanding 6 £100.00
The most recent correspondence from Lending Stream shows there is an outstanding 
balances for loans 4-7 but these appear to have been sold to a third-party.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ws complaint. He didnt think Lending Stream were 
wrong to provide loans 1-6 based on the information it gathered about Mr Ws circumstances 
and the information we held on file. 
Whilst the adjudicator thought that further checks were warranted from loan 6, Mr W had not 
provided information showing what his circumstances were like at the time of his application. 
So, the adjudicator was unable to conclude that loan 6 was unaffordable for Mr W. But when 
Mr W applied for loan 7, he already had three outstanding loans with Lending Stream by this 
point which the adjudicator thought was a sign that t Mr W was having problems managing 
his money. So the final loan was upheld. 
Lending Stream agreed with our adjudicators opinion and offered to settle in-line with the 
recommendation for loan 7.
Mr W, by the way of his representative disagreed and provided the following complaint 
points to consider:
Loan 4 was never repaid but Lending Stream continued to lend money knowing
payments could not be met, and as such, Mr W has incurred huge interest and 
default costs.
The increased in borrowing at loan 2 shouldve prompted further checks. 
The representative said its possible loans 2 and 3 could only be repaid by Mr W 
taking other lending. 
This service should be looking at Mr Ws further borrowings with other lenders and 
repayments to a third-party debt company.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time these loans were provided. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr W could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for Mr W. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loan was provided.
Lending Stream has already agreed to settle loan 7, in-line with our adjudicators 
recommendation. So, this decision will focus solely on loans 1-6 and whether it was 
reasonable for the lender to have approved these loans.
Loan 1
When Mr W applied for his first loan, Lending Stream asked him to declare his monthly 
income and expenditure, and it completed a credit check. Mr W declared that he had a 
monthly income of £1,875 and that his monthly expenditure amounted to £504. Lending Stream completed some checks into Mr Ws income and credit expenditure, and it 
adjusted Mr Ws declared figures accordingly. Subsequently, Lending Stream recorded 
Mr Ws income as £1,875 and his expenditure as £586. This would have left Mr W with a 
sufficient disposable income to meet the largest monthly repayments of no more than 
£42.40. So, I think the repayments appeared affordable based on the information declared 
by Mr W and the adjustments made by Lending Stream to these figures.
Lending Stream also completed a credit check to understand more about Mr Ws credit 
expenditure. The results of the credit checks show Mr W had three active accounts. But 
Lending Stream was not privy to which other types of accounts Mr W held i.e. short-term 
loans, credit cards etc. I acknowledge that Mr W believes Lending Stream shouldve seen he 
was borrowing from other lenders. But Lending Streams credit checks did not show this 
information - so I cannot conclude it would have known about his other borrowing based on 
its credit checks alone. 
I can also see that Lending Stream were aware that Mr W had one account in default. But 
based on all the information Lending Stream gathered, I dont think this was likely to have 
concerned it.  And I havent seen any other information which makes me think Mr W could 
not afford the repayments he was committing to make.
So, for loan 1 I think Lending Stream carried out a proportionate check and the check 
showed Mr W was likely to be able to afford the repayments he was committed to making. 
Loan 2
Mr W applied for his second loan more than two months after he took out loan 1. Ive 
considered the fact that Mr W was repaying more than one loan at the same time. The 
combined repayments for loans 1 and 2 totalled £334.40. So, Lending Stream needed to 
take the total repayments for these loans into consideration when considering its affordability 
check. 
Lending Stream assessed this loan on Mr Ws income being £1,750 and his expenditure 
being £473. Again, I think the combined monthly loan repayments, also of £334.40, 
appeared affordable. The credit checks showed Mr W now had five active accounts, but one 
of these accounts was most likely to have been his first loan with Lending Stream. There 
wasnt any other concerning information contained with the report which ought to have led 
Lending Stream to either ask Mr W further questions or to have prompted it to have declined 
the application. 
Whilst the amount Mr W requested to borrow had significantly increased compared to his 
previous loan, at this early stage of the lending relationship, I dont quite think it had yet 
reached the stage where Lending Streams checks needed to go further than they did. So 
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint about loan 2. 
Loan 3
When Mr W applied for his third loan, he was still repaying his previous two loans. Lending 
Stream allow a customer to have multiple loans running at the same time. But it needed to 
consider the combined repayments for each outstanding loan, along with the repayments for 
Mr Ws new loan. The repayments for all three loans totalled £303.52 which was actually 
slightly less than the amount Mr W was repaying when he took out loan 2. This is likely to 
have been caused by the fact this loan was taken after the first two repayments were due for 
loans 1 and 2, which given the way these loans are structured was likely to be Mr Ws 
largest repayments. Ive considered the income and expenditure information declared by Mr W about his 
finances, along with the results of the credit checks completed by Lending Stream. And I still 
think the loan repayments appeared affordable. At this stage of the lending relationship, I 
dont think Lending Streams checks needed to go as far as verifying the information Mr W 
gave to it about his circumstances. I think the lender was entitled to rely on the information 
Mr W told it, and the loan repayments appeared affordable. So, I cant conclude that Lending 
Stream were wrong to approve loans 1-3.
Loans 4-6
Firstly, I would like to start by saying Im satisfied there are two lending chains  loans 1-3 
and loans 4-7. I say this because Mr W took out loan 4 more than eight months after he 
repaid loans 2 and 3.  So, I think this amount of time was enough for Lending Stream to 
have reasonably assumed that Mr W had overcome whatever financial reason he had for 
taking out his earlier loans.
When Mr W applied for loans 4 and 5, Lending Stream completed the same level of checks 
as it had for his previous loans.  Mr W declared his monthly income remained at £1,750, the 
same for both loans. And his monthly expenditure was recorded as £474 and £373 for loans 
4 and 5 respectively. The monthly repayment for loan 4 was £212. But when Mr W applied 
for loan 5, he was still repaying loan 4, so the combined repayment totalled £373.12.
The credit checks for both loans show Mr W had four active accounts, one of which was in 
default. But as the default had been applied at least 40 months prior to his applications, I 
dont think this was something which ought to have concerned Lending Stream. And there 
was no other adverse information showing from the credit check results. So, I dont think it 
was unreasonable that Lending Stream decided to lend to Mr W as the loan repayments 
appeared affordable for both loans and the checks it carried out were proportionate. 
Mr Ws representatives said Lending Stream continued to lend to Mr W although he had 
missed his repayments on loan 4. Lending Stream has provided the Statement of Account 
for each of Mr Ws loans. And I can see Mr W made his repayments on time for each of his 
loans up until after his last loan was granted. So, I do not think Lending Stream would have 
been aware that Mr W was experiencing financial difficulties repaying his loans before each 
of his loans were approved.
But when Mr W applied for loan 6, I think the information Lending Stream gathered about 
Mr Ws circumstances ought to have prompted it to have verified the information he was 
telling it. Whilst the information Mr W provided about his income and expenditure suggested 
the repayments were affordable, the repayments for loan 6 were the largest loan repayments 
to date. It was also his third loan in a little under three months.  This was because Mr W had 
two outstanding loans to consider in addition to loan 6s monthly repayment, so the 
repayments for all three loans totalled around £394. 
Furthermore, Mr W was continuing to borrow in the same manner as he did for his three 
earlier loans.  So, I think Lending Stream should have done more to understand Mr Ws 
circumstances, and why he was coming back for further loans.  One way the lender could 
have done this, was by verifying Mr Ws circumstances by requesting copies of his bank 
statements. Or it couldve asked Mr W for a copy of his payslip and evidence of his 
outgoings. 
But Mr Ws representatives havent provided us with a copy of Mr Ws credit file or bank 
statements showing what his circumstances were likely to have been at the time he took out 
loan 6. I acknowledge that Mr Ws representatives have told us Mr W was borrowing from 
other lenders, but without any information showing this and or what his circumstances were like at the time, I cant say further checks wouldve made a difference to Lending Streams 
decision to lend.
Based on the information we have received from both parties, I dont think it was 
unreasonable that Lending Stream made the decision to approve loans 1  6. I understand 
that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr W, but I hope my explanation will help him 
understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it not provided Mr Ws last loan, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr W may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, Mr W may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr W would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Lending Streams liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I think Lending Stream were wrong to approve loan 7.
Lending Stream should remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the 
outstanding loan balance on loan 7.
Lending Stream should rework the account so that Mr W only has to repay the 
principal borrowed for loan 7. It should treat any repayments made by Mr W (and the 
third party if applicable) as if it went towards the principal balance.
If and when Mr W has repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment
should be refunded to him. To this overpayment, 8% simple a year interest should
be added from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding principal balance remains, Lending 
Stream should try and come to an affordable arrangement with Mr W to repay the 
balance. But Id remind Lending Stream of its obligation to treat him fairly.
Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded about loan 7 from 
Mr Ws credit file.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Lending Stream 
should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint about loans 1  6. 
But in line with what Lending Stream has already agreed to do it should put things right for 
him for loan 7.
Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) should put things right for Mr W as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman