DRN-3396204
The complaint
Mr H complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) for declining his 
claim for a damaged carpet and for the way it displayed exclusions within policy 
documentation. 
Specifically, he thinks that the exclusions were not featured prominently enough within the 
policy documentation. He wants LV to reimburse him for the cost of the damaged carpet, to 
pay him compensation for his distress and inconvenience and to reflect on the way it 
presents information. 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr H purchased his home insurance from LV. He was a tenant in the 
property he insured, and he made LV aware of that. 
He selected the optional extra of full accidental damage in addition to the standard policy 
cover. 
In June 2021, Mr M walked dirt into the light-coloured carpet at his home. He attempted to 
clean the carpet but this was unsuccessful and some discolouration and staining remained 
on the carpet where cleaning products had been used. 
He submitted a claim to LV for a replacement carpet of the same type, costing around 
£1170. 
LV considered his claim and declined it. LV pointed to a general exclusion within the policy 
which excluded any claim arising from any process of cleaning, repair or alteration. 
Mr H was not happy with this and complained. LV sent its final response maintaining its 
decision to decline the claim.  LV acknowledged a delay in responding to Mr H and offered 
him compensation to reflect that delay.
Mr H was not happy with this and contacted us. He felt that the general exclusions, and the 
exclusions which applied to accidental damage, were not sufficiently prominent in the policy 
documents and had not been properly brought to his attention. He felt that they ought to 
have been made clear in the at a glance policy cover details.  
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
He considered that the terms were clearly expressed in the policy wording and this had been 
sent to Mr H. He noted that consumers are expected to read policy wording to determine 
whether cover is appropriate for them. He therefore did not think that LV had done anything 
substantially wrong. 
Mr H did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I can very much appreciate why Mr H is upset. He has noted that as a tenant he was 
concerned to make sure that the property was maintained well and when mud was walked 
onto the carpet, as a responsible tenant he made immediate efforts to clean it. He has then 
faced substantial costs in replacing the carpet and is understandably very frustrated by this. 
I do, however, agree with the view set out by the investigator, that LV has not acted 
unreasonably in the way it has set out its policy information and how it then applied its 
exclusions. 
The policy was sold on a non-advised basis and LV sent the policy schedule to Mr H by 
email. This email included links to the policy documentation, including the full policy wording 
which detailed the conditions and exclusions. The policy schedule included some details for 
Mr H to check and confirm, and a product information sheet. Mr H did not raise any concerns 
with that information and so agreed to be bound by that information. 
The product information sheet does not detail the general exclusions, but the full wording 
makes clear that it is a summary and that full details are given in the document of insurance. 
The full wording then details, in the section for full accidental damage, that it excludes any 
loss or damage shown as not insured elsewhere in this document of home insurance. The 
general exceptions, which LV relied upon here, are then set out in the main section 
discussing cover. 
I appreciate why Mr H feels that he was not adequately told that damage caused in cleaning 
would not be covered, but I think it was clear and given proportionate prominence in the 
policy documentation. As my colleague considered, consumers in non-advised sales are 
expected to check the policy documentation and assure themselves that the policy is 
appropriate for them and their particular needs. I sympathise with Mr H that he did not 
observe this exclusion early on, but I cannot conclude that LV hid this or did anything wrong 
in its consideration of his claim. 
Consequently, and whilst I realise that this will be disappointing for Mr H, I agree with the 
investigators view and do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. I do not ask LV to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and I do not ask Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman