DRN-1693390
 
The complaint
Mr W has complained about esure Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the way it valued 
his car after a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W made a claim under his car insurance policy and esure looked to settle his claim, but 
he wasnt happy with the valuation of his car. So, Mr W complained to esure as he felt that 
the £5,000 offered wasnt enough. And as esure didnt change its position he complained to 
this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She thought that 
esure had acted reasonably in valuing Mr Ws car. But as Mr T didnt agree the matter has 
been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr W, but Ill 
explain why.
I can understand Mr Ws position, as he clearly feels his car is worth a lot more than esure 
have offered him. And he feels the way esure has valued his car has left him out-of-pocket. 
Mr W says that he feels cars like his sell for more than he has been offered, and he 
highlights the car had brand-new tyres on it which he doesnt feel has been reflected in the 
valuation.
But this service has an established approach to how it approaches valuation cases. When 
looking at the valuation placed on a car by an insurance company I consider the approach 
they have adopted. And decide whether the valuation is fair in all the circumstances. But I 
must highlight that it isnt the role of this service to come to an exact valuation for a 
consumers car, we just look to ensure that the insurer has acted reasonably in making a fair 
market value offer. 
I pay attention to the various trade guides used for valuing cars. And I look at any other 
evidence provided by both sides. This evidence might include advertisements for the sale of 
similar cars. But I place less weight on these than on the trade guides, as cars dont 
normally sell for the price at which they are advertised. The condition of the car at the time of 
the incident is also an important factor to consider. And I must emphasise that I will only 
order a business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
I know Mr W doesnt agree with the offer esure has made. But he hasnt provided any 
evidence in support of his position that his car is worth more than esure has offered, 
although he has highlighted that his car had new tyres. However, the trade guide valuations work on the basis that a car is in a good roadworthy condition so the additional point he has 
raised, about new tyres, wouldnt add to the overall value of his car. 
I have looked at the trade guide valuations and some advertisements myself. And having 
done so I cant conclude esures offer is unreasonable as they are in line with the offer esure 
has made. I can see that some of the trade guide valuations are slightly less than esure 
offered and some are slightly more. But esure used an average of the guide valuations and 
then rounded them up, so I cant say that it acted unreasonably.
So, Im satisfied esure has looked to value Mr Ws car in a fair and reasonable way and 
looked to pay him the market value of his car in line with the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman