DRN-4389614
The complaint
Ms O is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim she made under her train 
ticket cancellation insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms O bought a train ticket cancellation insurance policy on 20 August 2023. The policy 
provided cover in certain circumstances for one day  23 August 2023  when Ms O was 
due to take the train, within the UK, on a return trip.
Ms O has explained that her trip didnt go to plan, and she was at a loss of £100. So, she 
contacted Great Lakes, to make a claim under her insurance policy.
In her claim form, Ms O said that her outbound journey hadnt happened as it should have, 
because the train was delayed preparing at the station. Ms O said she was refused another 
ticket  so was unable to travel as planned. And this meant the inbound ticket booked for 
later that day was also unusable.
Ms O said that in addition to this, she received an alert for the inbound journey, noting 
disruption to it. This train ended up stopping short of the full return journey. So, Ms O said 
this also rendered the return journey unusable. 
Great Lakes asked Ms O for more information on the journeys. Ms O responded and 
provided emails saying that she needed to contact the actual train operator, who would 
provide her with that information. Nothing else in respect of the reasons for the disruptions 
was provided to Great Lakes, including anything from the train operator.
Great Lakes declined Ms Os claim. It said Ms Os policy provided cover for train ticket 
cancellation, as well as stranded traveller cover, in certain, listed, circumstances. Great 
Lakes said the situation Ms O found herself in wasnt one of those listed circumstances. And 
so, there was no cover under the policy for the situation being claimed for. Therefore, no 
settlement would be offered.
Great Lakes also said Ms Os outbound ticket would have allowed her to get on the next 
available train to her destination. And if she was told otherwise, she should raise these 
concerns with the relevant train company. And Great Lakes noted that the inbound train 
journey had been refunded to Ms O in full.
Ms O remained unhappy with Great Lakes position, so she raised a complaint with it. Great 
Lakes responded and maintained its position on the matter. As Ms O remained unhappy, 
she referred her complaint to this service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
that Great Lakes had acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms of the policy 
Ms O had purchased.
Ms O didnt agree. And said she felt the disruption alert sent to her, about her inbound train 
journey, amounted to adverse weather conditions or mechanical failure, as this was what the 
alert was warning of. Ms O also referred to schedule 8 which she said automatically makes 
train operators financially responsible for issues such as delays. Ms O said she felt her 
situation fell under that schedule.
Because Ms O disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
I understand this will be a disappointment to Ms O. But Id like to reassure the parties that 
Ive considered all the information provided to me, when coming to my decision. However, 
when explaining my decision, Ive only referred to that which is necessary to explain my 
reasoning. This isnt intended as a discourtesy but reflects the informal nature of this service.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules, and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Great Lakes acted in line with these requirements when it 
declined to settle Ms Os claim.
Ive also reviewed Ms Os insurance policy, to see what cover it provided. On doing so, I can 
see there are two sections of cover, which may be relevant here. One is called Section 1: 
Train ticket cancellation and the other Section 2: Stranded traveller. So, Ive considered 
these sections, and whether Great Lakes acted fairly or not, in respect of these.
In terms of Section 1: Train ticket cancellation, I can see this provides a refund of the cost 
of travel documents and official ticket fees, if the policyholder is unable to take the insured 
journey, due to one of the reasons listed in the section as covered.
The reasons include accidental bodily injury, illness, being summoned for jury service or 
redundancy. As is usual with insurance policies of this nature, if the reason for the 
cancellation isnt listed, then it isnt covered.   Based on the information provided to me, 
Ms Os circumstances dont fall into any of those listed reasons. Instead, Ms O has 
explained the reason for the disruption of her outbound trip was the train preparing to leave 
the station. 
I can also see, that under the What is not covered part of this section, its explained that if 
an insured journey is cancelled, abandoned, delayed or re-routed by a train operating 
company than it isnt covered under this section.
Given the above, Im satisfied Great Lakes acted fairly in declining Ms O claim under the 
cancellation section of the policy  it doesnt cover the situation as presented. So, Im not 
requiring it to do anything more here.
In terms of Section 2: Stranded Traveller, Im aware this provides cover if a policyholder 
fails to get to their departure point in time  because of reasons listed in that section of the 
policy. It also provides cover for missed connections, or overnight stays in certain listed 
circumstances.Ive thought about whether any cover in this section applies to Ms Os circumstances. And 
based on the evidence provided to me, it doesnt. Ms O didnt fail to get to her departure 
point in time, didnt miss connections, or have an overnight stay because of failure to get to 
her final destination. So, Im satisfied Great Lakes also acted fairly when declining the claim. 
There was no cover for it, based on the information supplied.
Ms O has said she considers the alert was sent about her inbound train journey constituted 
adverse weather conditions or mechanical failure, as it was warning of potential disruption 
due to these things. And this meant her claim is covered under the policy.
But I dont agree. As above, Ms O needed to have failed to get her departure point or missed 
a connection, due to these reasons. And I havent seen any evidence that Ms O failed to get 
to her departure point in time, and there were no missed connections.
I also havent seen any evidence to show the reason for the disruption of the inbound train 
journey was due to adverse weather or mechanical issues. The information provided just 
notes the train was disrupted and didnt reach its destination. It doesnt say why. Great 
Lakes did ask for further information in this respect, and it didnt receive any. So, Im 
satisfied it acted fairly in its claims decision. If Ms O does receive further information from 
the train operator, she may wish to provide that to Great Lakes to consider.
Ms O has referred to something called schedule eight, and pointed to this meaning there 
was financial responsibility that lies with rail operators.  Its important to point out that 
schedule eight isnt part of the insurance policy. And my role is limited to considering 
whether the insurer has acted reasonably, in line with the policy. So, it isnt for me to 
comment or make any findings in relation to this. So, it doesnt make a difference to the 
outcome of this complaint.
My final decision
Given the above, I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require Great Lakes Insurance SE 
to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman