DRN-3929460
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Studio Retail Limited, trading as Studio, irresponsibly lent to 
her.
What happened
Miss W opened a shopping account with Studio in 2013. Its not known what her credit limit 
was at that time, however by September 2015 her limit was £1,395. In October 2016 her limit 
was increased to £1,795.
 
Miss W complains that Studio didnt take reasonable steps to assess her ability to make 
repayments in a sustainable manner and that she couldnt afford the credit. Miss W suggests 
if Studio had done proportionate checks on her financial situation it would have realised she 
couldnt pay it back in a sustainable way. Miss W say she has incurred charges as a result of 
financial difficulty.
Studio says that it doesnt have some of information relating to Miss Ws complaint because 
it was so long ago. However, it says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Miss W 
and before it increased Miss Ws credit limit and that it acted appropriately and fairly.
Our investigator looked only at Miss Ws lending since September 2015, because that was 
Miss Ws concern. The investigator thought that Studio ought to have asked Miss W for more 
information about her financial circumstances. Our investigator asked Miss W for copies of 
her bank statements to help them better understand what Studio might have seen if it had 
done proportionate checks. Miss W wasnt able to supply these, so our investigator 
concluded that they could not safely say if Studio had done more checks it would have seen 
information which would have indicated it shouldnt increase Miss Ws credit limit.
Miss W did not agree. But she didnt provide the information requested or explain why she 
disagreed. The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Ws complaint.
Studio needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
W could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could have taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts, how quickly the debt was being paid off and Miss Ws income 
and expenditure. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of 
lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
Studio hasnt retained any evidence of the checks it completed prior to August 2016. 
Businesses arent allowed to keep data indefinitely, so I dont think this is surprising. But at 
the time of the first available data about Ms Ws account management it seems that Ms Ws 
credit limit was £1,395 and she had a balance of £412.
Her credit limit was increased in October 2016, so this is effectively the first lending decision 
for me to consider. There is no evidence of any financial difficulty in the preceding few 
months. Our investigator thought that Studio ought to have done further checks to make sure 
the lending was appropriate. I dont think the increase, combined with the relatively low 
utilisation of her existing credit and Miss Ws good management of the account to that point, 
would have warranted more than enquiries of Miss W about her income and essential 
expenditure.
In the absence of any information about what Studio might have seen our investigator asked 
Miss W to provide copies of her bank statements from the time to help establish what her 
financial circumstances were like. Miss W didnt provide these, so I cant know whether 
Studio would have found anything of concern if it had asked Miss W about her income and 
expenditure.
I note, however, that Miss Ws utilisation of her account was generally less than 50% of her 
available credit. Following the increase, it never exceeded the original credit limit of £1,395. 
So even if I had considered the increase to have been unfair, Miss W would not have 
received any compensation. This is because it would be our normal approach if upholding a 
complaint of this nature to direct a business to pay back interest and charges incurred as a 
result of the increase. In Miss Ws case she didnt incur any interest or charges as a result of 
the increase. 
Following our investigators initial view, Miss W disagreed with the outcome. But she didnt 
explain what she thought was wrong about the view and nor did she provide the information 
requested. So, I dont think there is any reason to depart from our investigators view.
In summary, I dont have enough information to satisfy me that had Studio completed 
proportionate checks it would have seen anything which might have made it act differently. 
And I cant say that Miss W lost out as a result of anything Studio might have done wrong. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Ws complaint so it follows that Studio Retail Limited, trading as Studio, 
doesnt have to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman