DRN-2717405
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have 
handled their home insurance claim for subsidence. 
What happened
In January 2019, Mr and Mrs E made a claim to RSA after they discovered some cracking 
on their gable wall. They had had a structural engineer come out to their home who had 
confirmed the cracking was the result of subsidence caused by clay shrinkage exacerbated 
by nearby vegetation. RSA accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster to manage it. 
The loss adjuster visited Mr and Mrs Es property in March 2019. It reported to RSA that 
there was damage to north, east and west elevations and external cracks mainly on the 
north elevation. It categorised the damage as slight (in accordance with an industry 
guideline) and said it had been caused by subsidence which was the result of clay 
shrinkage. It said the shrinkage was root induced dehydration which it said was reversible. 
The loss adjuster also said that it expected the clay soils to re-hydrate in the winter months 
causing the clays to swell and the cracks to close. It didnt anticipate any recurrence of 
movement. 
The loss adjuster recommended obtaining an arboricultural report to confirm the scope of the 
tree management required to stabilise the property after which it intended to undertake a soil 
risk analysis to confirm the implicated trees to be removed. It said it would check out if any of 
the trees had tree preservation orders and liaise with the neighbour as required. Finally, the 
loss adjuster said that providing the tree management works were completed expeditiously, 
consideration could then be given to carrying out the necessary repairs. 
The arborist visited a few weeks later and sent its report to RSA in April 2019. It advised the 
removal of trees and vegetation on both Mr and Mrs Es property and on their neighbours 
property. RSA sent the report to Mr and Mrs E in late May 2019. Having reviewed it they 
contacted the loss adjuster to say that the report contained a number of errors  for 
example, some trees close to the house had been omitted from the removal list.
In June 2019, the loss adjuster wrote to Mr and Mrs E to say there were no tree preservation 
orders on any of the trees designated for removal and that it had referred their query about 
the fruit trees to the arborist. The loss adjuster noted Mr and Mrs E had mentioned they had 
further queries and encouraged them to send them in. It said that once their queries had 
been resolved they should review the report and complete the tree works outlined. The loss 
adjuster said their policy didnt cover them for the cost of removing the trees. 
Mr and Mrs E replied immediately with their queries about which trees should be removed 
and the loss adjuster sent them a letter in reply about a month later. 
Unhappy with the loss adjusters reply, Mr and Mrs E contacted their own structural engineer 
for further advice. He reported in October 2019 that there were some clear inaccuracies in 
the arborists report and recommended that all the trees identified for removal on the 
neighbours property should be felled by Spring 2020. The structural engineer noted in the 
letter that the arborist was due to revisit shortly to address Mr and Mrs Es concerns and to 
revise its report. 
That visit took place in the first half of October 2019 and the report was duly revised to Mr 
and Mrs Es satisfaction. The report noted that Mr and Mrs E had removed all the 
recommended trees in mid-September 2019 but that the neighbour hadnt. 
The loss adjuster contacted the neighbour on numerous occasions about the need to 
remove the trees but its letters all went unanswered. As the neighbour was refusing to 
engage, the loss adjuster put the neighbour on notice that they could be liable for any future 
damage if they didnt remove the offending vegetation. Having done all it could do with 
regard to the neighbour, the loss adjuster wrote to Mr and Mrs E in February 2020 to say the 
required mitigation work had been completed and it was recommending that repairs 
proceed. The loss adjuster sent Mr and Mrs E a schedule of works.
 
Mr and Mrs E noted that the schedule didnt include any repairs to the garage, to some 
cracked external paving or the tiled porch floor. They also noted that no mention had been 
made of the damaged drainage. And Mr and Mrs E told the loss adjuster that they werent 
happy to proceed to repairs whilst implicated vegetation was still in situ. In March 2020, 
Mr and Mrs E complained to the loss adjuster about the way their claim had been handled. 
In an effort to address Mr and Mrs Es concerns, the loss adjuster agreed to undertake crack 
monitoring for six months to confirm that the property was indeed stable. RSA looked into 
Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
In the meantime, sometime in the spring of 2020, the neighbouring property changed hands 
and the new owners immediately removed the implicated trees on their land. 
RSA issued its final response to Mr and Mrs Es complaint in July 2020. It said it didnt think 
the loss adjuster had done anything wrong. RSA said that the neighbour had ignored the 
loss adjusters requests to remove their vegetation so the loss adjuster had correctly 
followed standard practice by placing the neighbour on notice and proceeding to move to 
repairs. RSA said that, as far as the loss adjuster was concerned, the mitigation was 
complete as itd done all it could to get the vegetation removed and placed the neighbour on 
notice. Finally, RSA said that because Mr and Mrs E were concerned that the property was 
still moving the loss adjuster had agreed to monitor the cracks for a further six months. So 
RSA didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
Unhappy with the outcome of their complaint to RSA, Mr and Mrs E complained to this 
service. They said they were unhappy about a number of issues and that they wanted RSA 
to: 
Deal with them directly instead of through the loss adjuster;
Use an appropriately qualified engineer or surveyor to prepare a new schedule of 
works;
Obtain tenders for the works;
Appoint a suitable contractor to carry out the work;
Not ask them to sign the Authorisation and Payment Mandate;
Reimburse their professional and contractor fees and expenses;
Offer them accommodation if they needed to vacate the house during repairs.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Es complaint and recommended that it was upheld 
in part. He thought RSA should:
Reimburse the cost theyd incurred in felling the trees;Reimburse the cost theyd incurred in obtaining the two structural engineers reports;
Prepare a new schedule of works now the property was stable.
RSA accepted our investigators findings but Mr and Mrs E didnt. They said that they 
wanted this service to tell RSA to deal with their claim directly without using the loss adjuster 
and that they wanted an independent surveyor/engineer appointed to prepare the revised 
schedule of works and oversee the repairs. Our investigator looked at the complaint again 
but wasnt persuaded to change his mind. He said he didnt think it was the role of this 
service to tell RSA what its internal processes should be, nor did he think an independent 
surveyor/engineer was necessary for simple superstructure repairs and decoration works. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
who should deal with the claim?
Its up to RSA how it chooses to handle the claims it has to deal with. The internal processes 
adopted by insurers are not something this service will interfere with. Most insurers either 
deal with a claim by utilising their own internal claims handlers or, for some claims, they will 
appoint a loss adjuster. It is commonplace with subsidence claims for a loss adjuster to be 
appointed. Subsidence claims are often some of the most complicated and protracted claims 
insurers are presented with so a loss adjuster with the requisite experience and capability to 
deal with such claims will typically be appointed. Despite a loss adjuster being appointed, it 
is RSA that retains full responsibility for the claim so I cant see that any detriment has been 
caused to Mr and Mrs E. 
So whilst I note it is Mr and Mrs Es preference that their claim is handled directly by RSA 
and not its appointed loss adjuster, I cant fairly or reasonably require it to do so.
schedule of works, contractors and tenders
Mr and Mrs E have asked RSA to agree that their claim is settled as per the proposal set out 
by their structural engineer, namely that a new schedule of works is prepared and that a 
suitable contractor is appointed to carry out the repairs under appropriate professional 
supervision. 
The policy terms set out how claims will be settled. They state: 
We take pride in the claims service we offer our customers. Our philosophy is to repair or 
replace lost or damaged property, where we consider it appropriate, and we have developed 
a network of contractors, repairers and product suppliers dedicated to providing claims 
solutions 
When you call us, at our option we will:
-Ask you to get estimates for building repairs or replacement items or
-arrange for the damage to be inspected by one of our Claims Advisors or an 
independent loss adjuster or other expert
-arrange for the repair or a replacement as quickly as possibleThe policy terms therefore give RSA the choice about how to settle the claim and, although 
Mr and Mrs E may prefer that it was settled in accordance with their structural engineers 
proposal, RSA isnt obliged to accede to their request. I dont think thats unreasonable. 
Although Im not aware that Mr and Mrs E have asked that their claim be cash settled, if they 
were to do so, RSA is only required to pay them an amount equivalent to what it wouldve 
cost it to use its own contractors to do so. But its my understanding that RSA has a 
contractor available to carry out the repairs. Thats in line with its obligations under the policy 
terms and is reasonable in all the circumstances. 
And whilst the policy the provides cover for the cost of a surveyor, it must be necessary to 
appoint one in order that the damage can be repaired and Ive not seen evidence that this is 
the case with this claim. So whilst Mr and Mrs E may prefer the reassurance provided by a 
professional overseeing the repairs I dont think the appointment of one in such 
circumstances is covered by the policy terms. I think RSAs loss adjuster is able to get its 
contractor to draw up the schedule of works. 
In response to our investigators opinion, Mr and Mrs E said they wanted an appropriately 
qualified surveyor or engineer to draw up a new schedule of works because they wanted a 
fair resolution of the claim and to know that the work specified would be delivered. They said 
that to achieve this they would require the involvement of competent and unbiased 
professionals. 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr and Mrs Es claim cant be fairly resolved, or that the works 
specified in any (new) schedule of works cant be competently delivered by RSAs 
contractors. I cant fairly require RSA, when it has yet to even attempt a repair, to agree to 
this request. RSA must first be allowed to draw up a new (post mitigation) schedule of 
repairs and be permitted to carry out the repairs specified. If Mr and Mrs E are unhappy with 
the works carried out, they can make a new complaint to RSA should that happen. 
There is nothing about Mr and Mrs Es claim that has been identified as requiring the 
involvement of a structural engineer or any particular specialist advice. So whilst I 
understand they would prefer a third-party to prepare a schedule, Im unable to agree it is 
reasonably necessary.
The first schedule of works was prepared before any mitigation works (tree removal) took 
place and RSA has said it was provisional and by way of a guideline for the contractor. As 
far as Im aware, the contractor hasnt visited again to revise the schedule post-mitigation. 
So I think it would be fair for RSA to reassess the damage that needs repairing now that the 
property has been confirmed as stable.
There is no contractual term either requiring RSA to put the repairs out to tender.
authorisation and payment mandate
RSA has explained the mandates it has asked Mr and Mrs E to sign gives authorisation for 
its contractors to proceed with repairs as detailed in the schedule of works. I dont think 
these forms are unreasonable or unusual or place Mr and Mrs E in an unfavourable position. 
I think the mandate will simply authorise RSAs contractor to carry out the works if thats how 
Mr and Mrs E agree that their claim is settled. 
professional and contractor fees and expenses
Mr and Mrs E have asked for RSA to cover the cost of two reports they paid for during the 
course of the claim. Mr and Mrs E first raised concerns with RSA about errors in its arborist report in June 2019, 
and they didnt get a response until October 2019. In the meantime, not unreasonably, they 
engaged their own expert to support their concerns when it seemed RSA wasnt responding 
within a reasonable time frame. Their first report supported their claim that RSAs arborists 
report had not identified the closest trees to the damage for removal. And it identified that the 
height and distance in RSAs arborists report were wrong. 
After receipt of Mr and Mrs Es report, RSAs arborist changed its recommendations which 
materially affected the mitigation required. Given Mr and Mrs Es report altered the outcome 
of the claim, and given the time it took to get a response from RSA to their reasonable 
concerns, I think it would be fair for RSA to cover the cost of Mr and Mrs Es report.
The second report Mr and Mrs E obtained was in order to review RSAs repair proposal. 
Since RSA had made a settlement offer based on a schedule of works prepared before any 
mitigation work (tree removal and monitoring I dont think it was unreasonable that they 
sought such professional advice. So, I think in these circumstances RSA should reimburse 
Mr and Mrs E the cost of this report too.
In response to our investigators opinion, RSA agreed to pay for both reports.
As Mr and Mrs E have paid for these reports already, and thus have been effectively left out 
of pocket, RSA should also pay them interest on the amounts they paid at this services 
usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date they paid the invoices to the date RSA settles 
my award.
accommodation
Mr and Mrs Es policy provides for alternative accommodation if their property becomes 
uninhabitable due to damage covered by the policy terms. Uninhabitable means more than 
just being inconvenienced and is usually taken by this service to mean being left without any 
washing or cooking facilities.
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs Es property has been rendered uninhabitable by 
the damage its sustained. If, during the repairs, the property is left without essential facilities 
then Mr and Mrs E should ask RSA then to consider whether alternative accommodation 
would be appropriate. 
cost of external repairs
Mr and Mrs E have disputed whether some of the external damage theyve noted should 
also be covered by the policy. 
The policy terms set out the extent of the cover Mr and Mrs E have. It says they are covered 
for subsidence of the site of their buildings, but not, for damage to patios, paved terraces, 
footpaths unless their home is damaged by the same cause at the same time. So, if the 
external damage Mr and Mrs E are claiming for was caused by the same occurrence of 
subsidence that damaged their house then it should reasonably be covered by their policy. 
Mr and Mrs Es surveyor commented as follows about the external damage: 
Whilst it is not possible to be certain that the cracked paving is entirely due to the same 
causes as those which have damaged the building itself, given its proximity to trees (on both 
the left and right) the removal of which was advised by the arboriculturalists and requested 
by [the loss adjuster], it would not be unreasonable to include it as part of the remedial 
works. On a similar basis, damage to the tiled porch floor that is directly adjacent to internal cracking at the front of the hallway and in the front right bedroom could sensibly be 
considered to be connected and therefore to form part of the necessary remedial work.
RSAs loss adjuster said the following in June 2020:
External path to the left and front elevation has various historic cracks, with historic
distortion/settlement and some historical localised repairs. The concrete path has no 
movement joints cut in at any point, to assist in the preventing of normal thermal movement.
The tiled floor to the main entrance looks to have historic distortion/settlement and the tiles 
have become loose. This does look more age related rather than due to current movement 
by subsidence of the site.
Front right concrete driveway has various historic cracks, historic distortion/settlement and 
some historical localised repairs. The concrete drive again has no movement joints cut in at 
any point, to assist in the preventing of normal thermal movement.
This damage to the above paths and driveway is gradual deterioration and is clearly age 
related and beyond the scope of policy cover and will not be repaired or investigated as part 
of this claim.
Based on its loss adjusters comments, RSA has declined to cover the damage to the paths 
(and the tiled entrance) and the driveway, on the grounds that the damage reported is 
historic; in other words, its not related to the occurrence of subsidence that damaged Mr and 
Mrs Es home. 
Ive thought about the opinions of the two experts and I am more persuaded by what the loss 
adjuster has said about how the external damage was caused than I am about what Mr and 
Mrs Es surveyor said. Principally, thats because Mr and Mrs Es surveyor said he wasnt 
certain that the cracked paving was due to the occurrence of subsidence that damaged the 
house. So it follows that I dont think that RSA has unreasonably relied on the conclusions 
reached by its loss adjuster and declined to cover the external damage claimed (or that to 
the entrance porch) as it is excluded from cover by the policy terms.
 
tree removal and drain repairs
Mr and Mrs Es policy covers them for damage to their building caused by subsidence. In 
order to make an effective and lasting repair RSA needs to identify the cause of the 
movement and carry out any mitigation required to stabilise the property (such as the 
removal of any trees that are causing an issue). However, RSA is not required to prevent 
any future movement, so anything recommended to prevent future movement, rather than 
stabilising any current movement, is something the policyholder has to arrange at their cost. 
For example, Mr and Mrs Es surveyor indicated some drain repairs needed addressing 
because it may cause problems for them in the future. As the monitoring has now finished 
and showed there had been no movement, its clear that any drain repairs arent required in 
order to stabilise the property and so are not be covered by the policy.
When the loss adjuster visited Mr and Mrs Es property it found clay shrinkage to be the 
most likely cause of the movement. So, it instructed an arborist to investigate and 
recommend actions to mitigate the problem. A number of Mr and Mrs Es trees were 
identified as causing dehydration of the soil, along with a number of their neighbours trees. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs Es neighbours removal of their trees has caused a delay, the fact it did 
was outside of RSAs control. The Association of British Insurers (ABI) has protocols in place 
that set out how insurers should deal with domestic subsidence claims. One protocol sets 
out how to deal with tree roots belonging to a neighbour and states that an insurer wont take legal action against an individual unless they are aware that their tree(s) was causing 
damage and they fail to act to prevent it from occurring. 
So I dont think RSA has acted unreasonably by not starting legal proceedings against Mr 
and Mrs Es neighbour. In the first instance, it must request the trees are removed. If the 
neighbour refuses, it should put them on notice for any future damage. So in this respect I 
think RSA has done what it was supposed to do.
However, because RSAs arborist report recommended a number of trees be removed from 
Mr and Mrs Es garden  in order to mitigate movement and to permit a lasting and effecting 
repair  I think that RSA should cover the cost Mr and Mrs E incurred in complying with the 
arborists recommended mitigation. 
In response to our investigators opinion, RSA agreed to pay for the removal of the trees.
As Mr and Mrs E are out of pocket for the cost of removing the trees, I think that RSA should 
pay that cost. I also think that RSA should pay them interest on any amounts they paid at 
this services usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date they paid the invoices to the 
date RSA settles my award.
Monitoring
RSAs monitoring data covers September and November 2020 and January 2021 and shows 
no movement. This demonstrates that the property is now stable. After the claim has been 
completed RSA should provide Mr and Mrs E with a certificate of structural stability.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr and Mrs E, I think that RSA should do the following:
Subject to production of the necessary proof (invoices etc.) reimburse them the cost they 
incurred to remove the trees on their property;
Subject to production of the necessary proof (invoices etc.) reimburse them the cost they 
incurred in obtaining the two reports Ive referred to above;
Pay interest at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year on the amounts they paid 
out to remove the trees and obtain the two reports from the date Mr and Mrs E paid the 
invoices to the date RSA settles my award.
If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs E how much its taken off. It should also give 
them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Prepare a new schedule of works now that the property is stable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
UK Plc to take the steps Ive set out in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman