DRN-2223598
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc didnt make it clear it would be closing one of its 
branches early during the Covid-19 pandemic. He said this prevented him paying money into 
his account, which he said he needed to, so he could transfer funds to his father. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr B visited a branch of Santander to pay cash into his account. But 
unfortunately, upon reaching the branch, he found it had closed early. 
Mr B said as a result, he had to drive for around two hours to deliver the money in person, as 
his father needed it that day to pay bills and buy medicine. He said it was not displayed 
anywhere on Santanders website that the branch would be closing early, and that not being 
able to carry out the transaction caused him undue stress.
Santander has said that unfortunately, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, its branches have 
changed their opening hours and may close at very short notice. It said it was trying to keep 
its website updated, but as things were changing very quickly, it wasnt always possible to do 
this straight away.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr B brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into the matter but didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He 
said he thought Mr B had been inconsistent with his testimony, as he gave two different 
accounts of what had happened. And he thought that Mr B had sufficient funds in his 
account to make the transfer, without needing to pay in more that day. He also thought Mr B 
could have paid money into his account using the automatic teller machine (ATM) outside of 
the branch if he felt it necessary. 
But ultimately, the investigator concluded that even if Santanders website didnt reflect the 
branches most up to date opening hours, given the changing landscape in respect of 
Covid-19, it may have not always been possible for Santander to update this immediately. 
And he felt this was understandable, and that he wouldnt hold Santander responsible for the 
transfer not going thought that day because of this. 
The investigator accepted that this situation would been stressful for Mr B, but he thought 
Santanders explanation was a sufficient response to his complaint. So he didnt ask it to do 
anything further. 
Mr B rejected the investigators findings and re-iterated that he didnt have enough money for 
the transfer and asked for a final decision on the matter. So the case has come to me, as an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Mr Bs initial call to the investigator, he said he made a specific trip to the branch to deposit 
cash that day, having checked online to see if the branch was open. He said he visited the 
branch at around 2.30pm, expecting it would be open until 3pm. But when he got there, it 
turned out the branch had shut at 2pm.  He said he didnt have enough money in his 
account, so he needed to pay in cash so he could make a transfer through his banking app 
to his father, so that he could pay for things the following day. 
But when Mr B complained to Santander on the day of the attempted transaction, he said he 
needed to go to the branch that day but couldnt go until after 4pm. He said he expected the 
branch to be open until its usual time of 5pm, so he was upset that it wasnt. He also said 
that he noticed the branch was closed when he was walking past it on the way home.  
Im unsure as to why there are two different testimonies from Mr B regarding his branch visit. 
And Im also unsure as to why, when he first spoke with the investigator, he said he thought 
the branch would close at 3pm, if the website had not been updated regarding its opening 
hours, and it usually closed at 5pm. But what isnt in dispute, and both parties agree on, is 
that at the time Mr B visited the branch, it had closed earlier than normal. And as a result, 
Mr B was unable to pay in cash over the counter at this point. 
Mr B has said the early closure of the branch meant he had to drive for hours to drop off the 
cash to his father in person, as he was unable to transfer the money due to a lack of funds. 
But Santander said that it told Mr B that he could pay in money through the ATM outside if 
he needed to credit his account that day. Mr B acknowledged this on his call with the 
investigator, but he has since argued that the machine was not allowing cash deposits. 
Whether or not the machine was accepting deposits is still in dispute, but I dont think it 
matters, as Santander has now sent in statements for Mr Bs bank account. The statements 
show Mr B had an available balance of over £400 for more than two weeks leading up to 
20 March 2020, and a similar balance remaining for at least a week after. So given the 
length of time this money was available, I dont think he needed to access the branch to 
deposit cash that particular day, as I think he had adequate funds available to carry out the 
£120 transfer needed.
Mr Bs since said the online banking system wasnt working that day to carry out the transfer. 
But I havent seen anything in addition to Mr Bs testimony to support this. And this was not 
what he said during his initial call with the investigator. So Im not persuaded this was the 
case.
But, even after taking the above into account, in March 2020 many businesses were having 
to adjust at a fast pace and make changes to their normal business operations (including 
opening hours), in light of the pandemic that had just begun in the UK. And I think its 
understandable that it may not have always been possible to update their websites to reflect 
these changes immediately. So I dont think in this instance, it would be fair to hold 
Santander responsible for any inconvenience the short notice branch closure caused Mr B.
While I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Mr B, ultimately I dont think it was 
necessary for him to deposit cash on 20 March 2020 in order to process his transfer. And Im 
not holding Santander responsible for him being unable to do so. So for the above reasons, I 
wont be upholding his complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman