DRN-3493170
The complaint
Ms P complains that an international payment she sent through HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC) resulted in charges being deducted from the amount received by the recipient.
 What happened
Ms P has a bank account with HSBC. In December 2021, Ms P arranged an international 
payment to a recipient located in the USA. The payment amount was for £400 but required 
converting into US$s. Ms P instructed the payment using HSBCs online banking service. 
She says she elected to pay all the charges. When the payment didnt initially appear on her 
account, she contacted HSBC. They told her there may be a delay in the transaction 
showing and it wouldnt appear as a pending transaction.
Ms P says she subsequently received confirmation of the transaction confirming US$511.89 
would be received by the recipient of the payment. But she was later advised that the 
recipient only received US$486.81. She also said the recipient confirmed theyd not been 
advised of any other charges being deducted. Unhappy with this, Ms P contacted HSBC to 
complain. She wanted to know why the payment was short US$25.
HSBC responded to Ms Ps complaint in an email. They said that when payments overseas 
are made, Ms P needs to elect who pays HSBCs fees and who pays any other banks fees. 
They said Ms P elected to only pay HSBCs fees. HSBC said payments may be made using 
intermediary banks who may apply their own charges. In Ms Ps case those charges were 
deducted from the payment before the recipient received it by the bank(s) who charged 
them. HSBC said theyre unable to advise what intermediary bank charges are.
Ms P wasnt happy with HSBCs response to her complaint. She insisted shed received 
notification the recipient would receive US$511 and believed any further deductions 
shouldve been advised to her. She thought HSBC shouldve been aware of the charges 
other banks make. 
Ms P decided to refer her complaint to this service. She said that because her payment 
wasnt enough, she had to make another payment which incurred further costs. She wanted 
HSBC to refund the additional charges incurred over and above what she said shed been 
quoted. 
Having considered Ms Ps complaint, our investigator didnt believe HSBC had done 
anything wrong. Ms P didnt agree with our investigators findings. She wouldnt accept that 
HSBC couldnt know how much intermediary bank charges would be. She said other money 
transfer services were able to affect the same transaction without additional unknown 
charges being incurred.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Ms Ps complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In their view, our investigator referred to HSBCs account terms and conditions relating to 
international payments. I dont propose to repeat these here. However, I have looked at 
HSBCs website to establish what guidance is available to their customers.
There is a section on their website headed International Payments. There is a further 
heading, How much does it cost to transfer money internationally. Selecting the option, 
Sending money outside the UK gives full cost details. In particular, for Payments outside 
the EEA it explains you can either pay all the fees or share the fees. It goes on to say, If 
we send money toplaces outside the EEA we may use an intermediary bank. They and 
the receiving bank may also impose charges, which could include payments sent through, or 
to, another HSBC bank. An intermediary bank is used where HSBC dont necessarily have 
direct access to the receiving bank. I think this information was easy to find and was clear 
and easy to understand.
Ms P says that HSBC confirmed their charge of £5 to send the payment shed instructed, 
which she agreed to pay. But they didnt provide details of any other charges or fees. HSBC 
have confirmed that Ms P instructed the payment using their online service. They said she 
selected to pay HSBCs fees only. So, in the event that additional charges or fees were 
imposed by other banks involved in the payment process, Im satisfied those fees would be 
deducted from the payment before it reached the beneficiary. 
Ms P suggests that HSBC shouldve been aware of all fees and charges levied by other 
intermediary banks they use. HSBC undoubtedly make many international payments during 
the course of a business day. These will be sent to and received from many countries and, in 
particular, countries outside the EEA. Each country and jurisdiction may operate its own 
banking system, involving many different banks around the world. Each system can differ 
greatly from those in other jurisdictions. And as a result, so can the charges the banks make.
I dont think it would be reasonable to expect HSBC to be able to quote fees and charges for 
a particular bank in a particular country on a particular day. There would be too many 
variables. Therefore, its generally accepted that any additional fees and charges may not be 
known until after a payment has been originated. Thats what happened here. And because 
Ms P elected to only cover HSBCs charges, I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible for 
any further costs deducted by another bank involved in completing the payment. They 
wouldnt have had any control over that.
I do appreciate and understand Ms Ps frustration. But even if she had elected to pay all 
charges, I wouldnt have expected HSBC to have known what they were until after the 
payment had been completed. I do recognise that Ms P will be disappointed. But I cant 
reasonably say that HSBC have done anything wrong here or treated Ms P unfairly.
Ms P has referenced other money transfer services in her response to our investigator. 
Unfortunately, Im unable to comment specifically on the process and procedures used by 
other organisations not directly involved in Ms Ps complaint. I can only consider the facts of 
what actually happened here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman