DRN-2645243
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined their claim against their travel 
insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs L have travel insurance as a benefit of a bank 
account. They booked a trip with intended departure and return dates of 14 March 2020 
and 4 April 2020 respectively. Mr and Mrs L intended to arrive at their destination in 
South America, travel around that country by car and on 28 March 2020, join a cruise  
around islands which form a national park. Mr and Mrs Ls travel provider was a 
company based outside the UK. They paid for the trip by bank transfer. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 a 
pandemic. On 13 March 2020, Mr and Mrs L were aware of the changing situation in 
their destination country and that from 15 March 2020, travellers arriving from the 
country in which Mr and Mrs Ls connecting flight started would have to self-isolate for 14 
days. They were also aware that travel to the islands was going to be suspended, so 
their cruise couldnt go ahead.  
Mr and Mrs L say that in the early hours of 14 March 2020, they decided not to travel 
due to the emerging travel difficulties caused by government responses to Covid-19. 
Subsequently, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised 
against all but essential travel abroad. On 23 March 2020, the FCO advised all UK 
tourists to return to the UK.
Mr and Mrs L made a claim against their travel insurance policy in relation to their cruise 
costs, car hire and accommodation. AXA declined their claim. It ultimately rejected       
Mr and Mrs Ls claim on the basis that the FCO hadnt advised against travel to their 
destination on 14 March 2020, when Mr and Mrs L cancelled their trip. 
In response to Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, AXA maintained its decision to decline their 
claim but paid them compensation of £75 in relation to the service they received.           
Mr and Mrs L pursued their complaint. They want AXA to deal with their claim under the 
policy. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that AXA had 
treated Mr and Mrs L unfairly as there was no FCO advice against travel to their 
destination when Mr and Mrs L cancelled their trip. 
Mr and Mrs L accepted, with reluctance, the investigators view in relation to their claim 
for accommodation and car hire. They agreed that they decided not to travel before the 
FCO advised against travel. But Mr and Mrs L said that AXA should settle their claim for 
their cruise. They said that on 13 March 2020, their travel provider told them that national 
parks would close on 15 March 2020, so their cruise which was due to start on              
28 March 2020 couldnt go ahead. So, there was no point leaving the UK on                 
14 March 2020. Mr and Mrs L say that they booked the cruise as a separate trip and that 
their cruise costs arent recoverable from elsewhere. 
The investigator considered what Mr and Mrs L said but it didnt change his view.          
Mr and Mrs L asked that an ombudsman consider their claim, so it was passed to me to 
decide.
As Mr and Mrs L accepted the investigators view in relation to their claim for 
accommodation and car hire costs, in this decision, Im considering their claim for cruise 
costs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows:
Section A  Cancellation or curtailment charges and early return
What is covered
We will pay You up to £5,000 (inclusive of any valid claim payable under [] Section Q  
Travel disruption cover) for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs 
(including excursions up to £250) and other pre-paid charges [] which You have paid or 
are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if:  
cancellation of the Trip is necessary and unavoidable [] 
as a result of any of the following events occurring:
[]
7. A government directive prohibiting all travel to, or recommending evacuation from, the 
country or area You were planning to visit or were staying in provided such a directive came 
into force after You have left the United Kingdom.
Section Q  Travel disruption cover
[]
What is covered
Before You reach Your destination
We will pay You up to £5,000 for Your unused travel, accommodation (including excursions 
up to £250) and other Pre-paid Charges that You cannot claim back from any other source if 
You cannot travel and have to cancel Your Trip as a result of:
[]
The Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or other 
regulatory authority in a country to/from which You are travelling advising against all 
travel or all but essential travel to the country or specific area You are travelling to 
providing the advice came into force after You opened Your account or made Your 
travel arrangements for this Trip (whichever is later) and was within 28 days of Your 
departure date []Trip
means any holiday, business or pleasure trip or journey within the Geographical 
Limits, during the Period of Insurance, commencing and ending in Your Home Area, 
with a maximum duration of 62 consecutive days.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive considerable sympathy for the situation in which Mr and Mrs L found themselves. They 
decided to cancel their trip for reasons I quite understand but Im not upholding their 
complaint because I dont think that AXA treated them unfairly. I say that because:
Mr and Mrs Ls travel policy doesnt cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer 
will decide what risks it is willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on Mr and Mrs L to show that their 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. 
Like most travel insurance policies, Mr and Mrs Ls policy defines a trip as starting 
and ending in their home area. So, I think its right to look at their trip as a whole, 
which was to start and end on 14 March 2020 and 4 April 2020 respectively.  
Mr and Mrs Ls claim for cancellation of their cruise doesnt come within the 
cancellation or travel disruption provisions Ive set out above. Thats because when 
Mr and Mrs L cancelled their trip on 14 March 2020, there was no  government 
directive prohibiting all travel or all but essential travel to, or recommending 
evacuation from, their destination. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L have now provided evidence that they cant recover a 
full refund of the cruise costs from their travel provider but Im afraid that doesnt alter 
the outcome here. Thats because theres no insured event. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ls argument that if they had begun their trip they would 
very likely have curtailed it, which would have led to a claim against their policy. But 
Im looking at whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim            
Mr and Mrs L made, not a claim they may have made if they had chosen a different 
course of action. I dont think that it would be fair and reasonable in this case to direct 
AXA to deal with a claim that isnt covered by the terms and conditions of the policy.  
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman