DRN-1758128
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK Plc. Specifically, hes 
unhappy he was given incorrect information about how to upgrade his account. Hes also 
complained he wasnt notified what he could do with his account when he turned 16, and 
that hes missed the opportunity to open a Help to Buy ISA.
What happened
Mr C has an account with Barclays. He opened this account when he was 12 years old. 
When he turned 16 years old, he had an opportunity to upgrade his account. Mr C wanted to 
upgrade his account to use online banking, and to apply for a Help to Buy ISA before 
Barclays stopped offering the account. But he wasnt able to do this.
Mr C feels Barclays should have notified him about what he could do when he turned 16, but 
it didnt. And when he called on 22 November 2019 to upgrade his account, he was told hed 
receive his online banking details by letter and email. But the email didnt arrive so he called 
later that day. Barclays then told him that he wouldnt receive an email but gave him his 
online banking details over the phone. Mr C was able to log in that same day.
When Mr C logged in, he applied for his ISA. However, his account then became inactive. 
Mr C called Barclays and it told him that to upgrade his account fully hed need to go to 
branch to provide identification. Mr C said he couldnt do this and felt it was unnecessary 
given the identification hed provide is the same he provided when he opened the account. 
But Barclays explained its a requirement. Mr C complained about the following:
He expected Barclays to send him a letter upon turning 16 years old with the options 
for upgrading his account. But it didnt do that, instead it sent one in March 2020, 
explaining the upgrade would happen in June.
He was told that he would receive an email, then told he wouldnt. He eventually did 
receive the email with online banking details and complained that Barclays had given 
him incorrect information.
He shouldnt have to visit branch with the same identification. And because of this, 
hes missed out on opening a Help to Buy ISA.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. She explained that Barclays only upgrade 
those accounts automatically in June. And as Mr C wasnt 16 in June 2019, he didnt receive 
the letter and upgrade until 2020. She said whilst that is frustrating for Mr C, it wasnt her role 
to comment on how its processes work. Our investigator also acknowledged that Barclays 
had given incorrect information about receiving an email. But Barclays had given Mr C £15 
compensation for this and she felt that was reasonable given he was able to get those 
details over the telephone.
Lastly our investigator understood Mr Cs issue around providing identification in branch. 
Especially as that identification is likely to be the same as the one he provided when he 
opened the account. But, Barclays has a requirement to ensure that it keeps up to date 
records for its customers and our investigator explained this wasnt something wed say it got 
wrong here. So, whilst it was frustrating, she didnt feel Barclays had made an error.Mr C said he understood the investigators view but wanted an ombudsman to review this 
complaint, so it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator for similar reasons. I 
dont think Barclays needs to do anything more here. Ill explain why.
Account upgrade notification
There are two issues here. Firstly, whether Barclays shouldve told him around his 16th 
birthday about the upgrade options. And secondly, the conflicting information Mr C was told 
about whether hed receive an email about his online banking.
I can see why it would be very useful for Mr C to have been notified about the options 
available to him once he turned 16 years old. However, Barclays has explained that it 
upgrades these types of account automatically every June. So, it follows that if Mr C wasnt 
16 by June 2019, then he wouldnt have his account upgraded automatically. Barclays 
processes are something it can decide in line with its regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority  and its not for this service to tell it to change them. But rather to ensure it has 
followed its processes fairly. In this case, I can see that it has.
Ive also seen that Barclays terms say that the accounts are upgraded in June, and that if a 
customer turns 16 after June, the upgrade would happen the following year. So, I dont think 
Barclays did anything wrong when it didnt send a notification to Mr C. And when it did so, in 
March 2020, this appears to be following its processes.
Ive listened to the call recordings, and I accept that Mr C was given conflicting information. 
Its clear that he was told hed receive his online banking details in an email and in a letter. 
However, no timescale was given as to when hed receive this email. I can understand why 
he thought that would be instantaneous, as this is how many things happen over email. So, I 
can understand why he then called Barclays again. It wouldve been helpful to have been 
given that timeframe earlier. However, when he called Barclays he was told he wouldnt 
receive an email. This was likely to have made Mr C lose some faith in everything hed been 
told up to that point. But I can see that Barclays gave Mr C his online banking details during 
the call, so he was able to log in on that day. 
Its unfortunate that Mr C then received the email he was told he wouldnt get. As it showed 
hed been given incorrect information when he wanted some clarity. But I can see that Mr C 
had been paid £15 for the incorrect information initially. And I dont think Barclays needs to 
do anything more here. Whilst it was frustrating, he had been given his online banking 
details and I dont think receiving the email then caused Mr C any further inconvenience. 
Appointment in branch
It appears to me that this is the main issue for Mr C. And I can understand why. He was 
keen to open a Help to Buy ISA before it was no longer available, and there were only a few 
days left to do this. Because he wasnt able to get into branch, he missed out on this 
opportunity. Ive considered whether Barclays has made an error here, but I dont think it 
has.Barclays has regulatory requirements to ensure it has up to date identification for each of its 
customers. Its shown me that if a customer wants to upgrade their BarclayPlus account to a 
Young Persons account earlier than the yearly automatic upgrade then it requires the 
customer to go into branch. This is what has happened here. Mr C called to upgrade his 
account earlier than Barclays automatic upgrade the following June. He was told he had to 
go into branch to do this, after this hed be able to open the ISA.
Mr C only had around a week to visit a branch before the ISA became unavailable and hes 
explained he wasnt able to do so in this timeframe. I can understand how disappointing this 
was for Mr C, but it doesnt mean Barclays has done something wrong. Ive already 
explained why it didnt have to notify him about how he could upgrade his account at the 
time he turned 16 years old, so its not Barclays error that he only found out about it so close 
to the ISA cut-off date. It was following its processes.
Barclays has said it felt Mr C had enough time to visit branch to open his ISA before the last 
date it was available. And Mr C has said he wasnt able to do this, and that the branch 
couldnt given him an appointment. I dont think the time issue is relevant here. Barclays 
didnt need to tell Mr C about the upgrade any earlier than it did, and so whilst the timing was 
unfortunate I dont think Mr C missed out on his ISA because of an error. He decided he 
wanted to upgrade his account earlier than the June after his 16th birthday, and to do that he 
needed to visit the branch. It wouldnt be reasonable to ask Barclays to go against its 
processes in this situation, and I hope Ive explained why.
It appears Mr Cs account will be upgraded automatically in June 2020 but he may wish to 
contact Barclays to ensure whether it needs him to visit branch still. I do hope Mr C was able 
to find a suitable ISA for his future savings goals.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman