DRN-2012865
The complaint
Mrs A complains that QIC Europe Ltd voided her home insurance policy after she made a 
claim for water damage to her property.
What happened
Mrs A took out a home insurance policy in March 2016 and it was automatically renewed 
each year up to, and including, 2019. In January 2020 Mrs A reported to QIC that her 
property had suffered water damage and so made a claim under her policy. 
As part of their claims process, QIC carried out a search on the occupants of Mrs As 
property and found that a county court judgment had been registered against her husband. 
QIC said that they wouldnt have offered cover to Mrs A if theyd known about this at the 
point of renewal. Because of this, they voided Mrs As policy and returned the premiums 
shed paid since it renewed in March 2019.
Mrs A complained to QIC about their decision to void the policy as she said her husband 
doesnt live at her property.
QIC didnt change their position. They said, when Mrs A first applied for home insurance in 
2016, she was asked whether any of the occupants had been served with a county court 
judgment in the last five years, to which she answered no. And prior to each renewal she 
was sent documentation advising her to check the details shed provided were correct. But 
they hadnt received any contact from Mrs A to inform them otherwise. 
QIC further explained that Mrs A confirmed her property was occupied by her and her 
husband when she raised the claim in January 2020. And they wouldnt have offered cover 
to Mrs A when the policy was renewed had they known her husband had a county court 
judgment registered against him in May 2017 at the insured property. QIC added that theyd 
given Mrs A and her husband the opportunity to show he lived elsewhere, such as providing 
a utility bill addressed to him at his new address, but they hadnt received anything. So, the 
policy was voided and deemed to have never existed.
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator looked in to the matter but she 
didnt think QIC had acted unfairly by voiding Mrs A policy. She said while Mrs A had since 
explained that she separated from her husband around five years ago, Mrs A confirmed he 
occupied the property during the January 2020 telephone call. Because of this, she didnt 
think it was unreasonable for QIC to request further evidence to show Mrs As husband 
doesnt reside at the property, but this wasnt provided. And so, our investigator thought a 
misrepresentation had been made when Mrs As policy was renewed and that  in line with 
QICs underwriting criteria  had this been disclosed at the time then cover wouldnt have 
been offered. Our investigator thought a refund of premiums was fair in the circumstances.
As the county court judgement was registered against Mrs As husband in May 2017, and so 
prior to the 2018 policy renewal, QIC also offered to treat this policy year as void and refund 
the premiums as well.Mrs A remained unhappy and so the matter was passed to me to review. I spoke with Mrs A 
and I explained that I agreed with the conclusions reached by our investigator for largely the 
same reasons. And so, I didnt think QIC had to do anything further. 
Mrs A requested the refund of premiums for the 2018 policy, as offered by QIC, but she 
remained dissatisfied with the outcome and requested a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know how strongly Mrs A feels about this matter but, Im afraid, I dont think QIC acted 
unfairly by voided her policy. And I think their offer to refund both the 2018 and 2019 policy 
remains is fair. Ill explain why.
In order to treat Mrs As policy as though it never existed, QIC has to show that the 
provisions of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) 
have been met. Mrs A had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when she renewed the policy. But for there to be a qualifying misrepresentation under 
CIDRA, QIC has to show that they asked clear questions to which Mrs A gave inaccurate 
answers. They must also show that if shed given the correct answers, they wouldve acted 
differently  by not offering the policy to Mrs A at all, or by doing so on different terms.
On 1 March 2019, Mrs A was sent a policy renewal letter. It said:
A document called Your Details and Requirements is enclosed, which 
summarises your request for cover, what you have to us about your home and 
confirmation for the total rebuild cost and total sum insured limits. This document, 
together with the details in your policy schedule, forms the basis of your renewal 
quote. You need to let us know now if anything is incorrect or your circumstances 
have changed, otherwise your insurance may be invalid.
The Your Details and Requirements document said:
What you have told us

Are all of the following statements about you correct?
We asked you Your answer was
  
None of the occupants have been served with a 
County Court Judgment within 5 yearsI agree
Im satisfied QIC made Mrs A sufficiently aware of the importance for the information she 
provided to be correct. And the implication if it wasnt is that it could invalidate her policy  
thereby resulting in claims being declined. Im also satisfied that QIC asked a clear question 
to Mrs A about whether any of the occupants have been served a county court judgment in 
the last five years. But, while a county court judgment was registered against Mrs As 
husband in May 2017 at her property, she disputes that he resides there. Ive carefully considered what Mrs A has told us about her relationship with her husband and 
that he hasnt lived at the property for several years now. But, having listened to the January 
2020 call, Mrs A clearly confirms that her husband occupied the property. And she also 
explained during the call that her husband was at the property and it was he who had 
informed her of the water damage. So, I think it was reasonable for QIC to rely on this 
information when assessing the claim. And, when Mrs A informed them otherwise, I think it 
was fair for them to ask for Mrs A or her husband to evidence that he lives elsewhere. 
Mrs A, and her husband, didnt provide any evidence to QIC to show he lived elsewhere and 
so they voided the policy. Mrs A has since provided a council tax bill for the 2018/2019 year 
in her name and which shows a single person discount. Although this shows Mrs A resides 
at her property, I dont think this sufficiently demonstrates that her husband doesnt. Instead, 
it simply confirms that Mrs A resides at the property and that she claimed a single occupancy 
discount for her council tax. And so, based on the information currently available, I dont its 
been sufficiently evidenced that Mrs As husband doesnt occupy the property. On balance, I 
think its more likely than not that Mrs As husband did reside at the address. It therefore 
follows that I think Mrs A ought to have disclosed her husbands county court judgment to 
QIC at the point of renewal.
QIC has provided us with the underwriting criteria to show Mrs A wouldnt have been offered 
a policy had they known her husband had a county court judgment registered against him in 
May 2017 (in the last five years). And so, in line with CIDRA, I think there was a qualifying 
misrepresentation here. I therefore think it was reasonable for QIC to have treated the policy 
as if it never existed  and thereby not consider the claim for water damage.
QIC refunded the premiums Mrs A paid for the 2019 policy and have since offered to also 
void and refund the previous policy year too. I think this is fair in the circumstances. I 
appreciate Mrs A feels shes been treated unfairly as a result of her spouse being unable to 
evidence his residence. But, while I understand why she may think QICs decision is harsh, 
given the consequences, I dont think theyve acted unreasonably by voiding the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman