DRN-4172195
The complaint
Mr M complains Lloyds Bank PLC didnt promptly update the credit reference agencies 
(CRAs) once he paid off his credit card balance. And hes unhappy that after Lloyds did tell 
the CRAs this, one of them didnt update the balance to zero because they said Lloyds had 
told them there was still an outstanding balance.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
On 15 October 2020 Mr M contacted Lloyds to complain that hed paid off his credit card 
balance on 3 August 2020, but none of the CRAs were showing this. He understood this 
was the reason hed been turned down for a credit card application. He asked that the 
balance be updated with all of the CRAs. 
When checking this later, he found itd been updated with two of the CRAs, but not a third  
who Ill refer to as E. Mr M was told by E when raising a dispute about this data that Lloyds 
had continued to report an outstanding balance.
In January 2021 Lloyds said theyll usually update Mr Ms credit file on a monthly basis, but 
sometimes that isnt possible and it takes a little longer. They said Mr M had paid off his 
balance on 3 August 2020, and theyd reported this information to the CRAs on 
20 October 2020. They didnt think this was an unreasonable amount of time. They didnt 
know why E was still reporting an outstanding balance as theyd updated it with them, but 
Lloyds said theyd do another update to E to resolve this issue.
The update in January 2021 did resolve the outstanding balance issue with E, but Mr M 
remained unhappy and asked us to look into things. 
One of our Investigators did so, but ultimately found Lloyds hadnt unreasonably delayed the 
original updates to the CRAs. She also found Lloyds had properly updated E, so didnt think 
Lloyds were responsible for the incorrect information being shown by E.
Mr M didnt accept this, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint only addresses Lloyds actions  Es actions are to be addressed in a 
separate decision.
There are two issues to address here:
Delay in updating the CRAs
Whether Lloyds gave the correct information to E
Delay in updating the CRAs
Lloyds have explained theyd usually update Mr Ms credit file every month. Here there 
doesnt seem to be any dispute Mr M paid off his credit card on 3 August 2020, but as of 
15 October 2020 when he contacted them, they hadnt updated his credit file.
Thats around two and a half months. So, I do think there was a delay, and although it can 
take some time, I think its likely this is outside of the usual timescales Id really expect.
Ill consider the impact of this at the end of the decision.
Whether Lloyds gave the correct information to E
Lloyds have said they did the updates to all the CRAs on 20 October 2020  and as 
evidence of them having done this correctly, say two of the other CRAs did update Mr Ms 
credit card balance to £0.
Unfortunately, Lloyds have said theyre not able to evidence what update they sent to E.
Where information is incomplete, missing or contradictory, as some of it is here, then I need 
to decide what I think is more likely than not based on the information I do have.
As Lloyds cant provide evidence of them doing the update, that does immediately put them 
on the back foot somewhat  because they simply cant prove they did the update correctly.
And while I understand their point about two other CRAs doing the update correctly, I dont 
think this automatically means they updated E correctly. And the main reason I say that is 
because of a screenshot provided by E.
Lloyds were provided this screenshot in September 2021 for comment. The screenshot has 
Mr Ms name, credit card number, update date and current balance amongst other 
information. 
The credit card number matches the one Mr M is disputing, the update date is 
20 October 2020, and the current balance is reported as £4,328. I cant see any reason 
why the current balance would be reporting as that if it should have been £0  unless Lloyds 
had made an error.
So, based on all the information Ive seen, I think its more likely than not Lloyds did report 
Mr Ms credit card balance as £4,328  rather than the £0 it was  when they did the update 
on 20 October 2020 to E. In January 2021 Lloyds did another update, and this did fix the 
balance. 
Summary
Overall then, I do think Lloyds took too long to update the CRAs, and I think they did report 
the incorrect information about Mr Ms credit balance to E.
So, next I need to consider the impact of this. Mr M has said these issues resulted in him not 
being accepted for a credit card application and hed like compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience.
In relation to the credit card applications, I cant reasonably say in most instances that 
incorrect information on a credit file is likely to be the sole reason someone has been turned down for lending. Thats because there are many factors lenders take into account when 
deciding whether to lend or not. In addition, I can see on the credit reports Mr M has given 
us, that he was able to successfully take out a credit card in October 2020  so it seems 
unlikely the incorrect information being reported for longer than it should have been caused 
those issues.
I do though think Mr M has been caused some inconvenience. Hes had to raise complaints 
to Lloyds and E, as well as bringing the matter to our service, before it was recognised an 
error had been made.
Overall, I think a payment of £100 to reflect this inconvenience is a fair way to resolve 
matters.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M said:
This complaint came out of another one where Lloyds had told the CRAs hed 
passed away.
Lloyds couldnt show theyd updated E on their systems, but we accepted they had.
There seems to be this notion that if he hadnt contacted Lloyds on 15 October 2020 
then the balance would have been updated to £0 in the normal course of business  
but he doesnt believe that.
There isnt any mention of the various disputes he raised with E about the balance, 
who then contacted Lloyds only to be told the balance was outstanding.
Mr M then asks if Lloyds have provided their responses to the many disputes, and also asks 
how the disputes process is supposed to work as it clearly failed many times to resolve this 
issue.
Lloyds replied and said theyre prepared to offer £100 to resolve matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Thinking about Mr Ms points I think the key ones to address are points three and four. I do 
agree that based on what Ive seen its unlikely Lloyds would have told E to update the 
balance to £0 without Mr Es efforts. Although Lloyds were of the opinion theyd not done 
anything wrong, I didnt agree with that based on the evidence Ive seen.
In relation to the many contacts Mr M had with E, although I may not have explicitly 
mentioned it in my findings, this was something I was factoring in when I said Mr M had to 
raise complaints to Lloyds and E. And Lloyds should have answered his disputes correctly, 
and also should have resolved the issue at the first time of asking  as thats how this 
process is supposed to work.
Overall, I dont think Lloyds would have updated Mr Ms credit file with E without his 
persistence, and I do think he was caused inconvenience as a result of Lloyds errros. I 
remain of the opinion £100 is a fair way to resolve matters.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC 
to pay Mr M £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman