DRN-2904238
The complaint
Mr D complains that NewDay Ltd wouldnt refund a payment he didnt make from his card 
account.
What happened
Mr Ds card account was in credit and a payment of £546.36 out was made to a bank 
account. Mr D said he didnt authorise this and that he had been the victim of fraud. He 
contacted our service when he didnt receive a refund.
NewDay decided to refund the credit to his account when it submitted its business file to this 
service. It said that this was because it had identified errors in the handling of its 
investigation and there were delays in reviewing the case properly. It said that this applied to 
a similar complaint Mr D had made with a differently branded card account. And that it would 
pay him total compensation of £150 to cover both of the issues.
Our investigator recommended that NewDay pay Mr D £100 in relation to this card account 
alone. He said that hed be considering the other card account in a separate complaint. On 
13 February 2019 NewDay had received a call from someone who said he was Mr D. And 
that person arranged for the credit balance on the account to be refunded to a bank account. 
Mr D contacted NewDay on 14 March 2019 to say that he hadnt made any of the calls to 
NewDay between 12 February and 6 March 2019. And so, a fraud claim was registered. On 
27 April 2019 Mr D told NewDay he hadnt requested the refund. And the amount repaid had 
gone to an account different to the one he made direct debit payments to NewDay from. He 
called NewDay in May 2019 to say he hadnt received a refund and registered a complaint. 
On 18 July 2019 NewDay issued a final response saying that it wouldnt be refunding the 
money as the bank account it was paid to was directly connected to Mr D.
Our investigator said that NewDay had concerns in February 2019 about potential fraud on 
Mr Ds accounts. Although it said that the bank account used for the payment was connected 
to Mr D it hadnt provided evidence to support that. And he thought that it ought to have 
realised much sooner that it wasnt Mr D who made the credit balance payment. So, he 
thought that the further £100 for this complaint was appropriate. He noted that NewDay said 
it had applied a protective marker at CIFAS, the national fraud database to alert other 
businesses that Mr D had been the victim of fraud.
NewDay disagreed on the basis that it thought the compensation should still cover both 
complaints. Mr D didnt agree that the amount for this complaint was sufficient. He said that 
he was subject to the most harrowing of ordeals. It took over a year before he got his money 
back and this has a significant financial effect on him. He also described the emotional 
impact and how he never got an apology and he felt despair about things. He called multiple 
times and the compensation wasnt enough to reflect this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr D has been the victim of fraud. I dont doubt that this was very 
distressing for him and Ive listened to a call he had with our investigator in which he 
described in a very poignant way how NewDays actions have compounded those of the 
fraudster in the first place.
Im looking at this complaint and a separate one about his other account. And there were 
very similar issues and so I still need to think about what is fair overall. And my reasoning 
will also be similar even though the complaints have been split.
It isnt now in dispute that a refund should have been applied much earlier to Mr Ds account. 
I am not clear if Mr D received the final response for this complaint. But I think that NewDay 
had made its position then clear and he could have referred it to us. Mr D continued to 
persevere and make multiple calls and as he says at times felt like he was being treated as a 
fraudster and not taken seriously. And he contacted our service about this in January 2020. 
Putting things right
NewDay has refunded the money to him and recalculated interest on that payment on the 
basis that it would have reduced any debit balance. NewDay confirmed that there were no 
insurance premiums applied on this account.
The issue I need to decide on is the appropriate amount of compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused and the length of time Mr D was without this money. We dont 
make punitive awards and we think about the overall impact of what happened. There were 
clearly parallel issues in these complaints. Having taken into account our published guidance 
about trouble and upset and applied my own judgement I think that the amount 
recommended for this complaint  of £100  is reasonable. I know Mr D will be very 
disappointed by my conclusion about that. But I think that the overall amount across the two 
complaints fairly reflects what happened.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require NewDay Ltd to pay Mr D a further 
£100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman