DRN-2621323
The complaint
Mr G says Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat lent to him irresponsibly. He says that 
Cashfloat didnt make proper checks, if it had done then it would have seen he was in 
financial difficulty and not lent to him. 
Mr G also says that he had problems contacting Cashfloat during the Covd-19 pandemic and 
it used his work email address. These issues caused him some trouble and upset. 
What happened
This complaint is about six payday loans Cashfloat provided to Mr G between January 2019 
and March 2020.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(months)date ended
1 24/01/2019 £200 1 31/01/2019
2 03/02/2019 £400 2 29/03/2019
3 10/04/2019 £700 3 30/04/2019
4 02/05/2019 £800 3 06/05/2019
5 07/05/2019 £1,000 4 10/09/2019
6 01/03/2020 £600 3 01/04/2020
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He said that by loan 4 Cashfloat should have 
made better checks. If it had done this it would have seen that Mr G was having problems 
managing his money and not lent to him. So, it should pay compensation in respect of loans 
4 to 6. 
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that the checks it made were 
proportionate. It verified the information Mr G provided with third parties such as credit 
reference agencies, which showed it the loans were affordable. 
Mr G agreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mr G didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to uphold his irresponsible lending 
complaint about loans 1 to 3 and the complaints hes made about his contact with Cashfloat. 
Because of this I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these issues. So, I 
wont comment further on them, save to say I agree with what the adjudicator said for the 
same reasons. And loans 1 to 3 were part of the borrowing relationship Mr G had with 
Cashfloat. So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans 
he took.
At loan four Mr G had now taken four loans in a relatively short period of time. The amount 
he had borrowed had increased from £200 to £800. This was a very large increase over the 
few months he had been lending form Cashfloat. And I think this does indicate that Mr Gs 
financial problems may be worsening. 
So, I think Cashfloat couldve realised at that time that Mr G may have had some longer term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. Cashfloat shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough about 
Mr Gs true financial situation.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Mr Gs financial situation And I think 
that Cashfloat needed to verify the information it found out where possible. This is to make 
sure Mr G was in position to make the repayments sustainably.
I dont think Cashfloat did this. Ive taken on board what it said about the checks it did. But it 
didnt really get to the bottom of why Mr G was borrowing these increasing amounts over a 
relatively short period of time. I think it needed to do this before continuing to lend. So I need 
to think about what Cashfloat wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Mr G has provided some information about his financial circumstances which include his 
bank statements. I accept that they may not be exactly what Cashfloat wouldve seen at the 
time. But I think it wouldve found out similar information if it had made proportionate checks, 
so I think its reasonable to rely on this information.The information I have shows that Mr G was spending a significant amount of his income on 
gambling. And I think that if Cashfloat wouldve seen this, it wouldnt have thought it was 
responsible to lend to Mr G because of this. This is because Mr Gs ability to repay the loans 
was dependent on his gambling returns. I dont think this was sustainable. 
I think that Cashfloat wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate checks. 
So I think that Cashfloat shouldnt have given loans 4 to 6 to Mr G and I think hes lost out as 
a result of this. So, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint about loans 4 to 6.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr G from loans 4 to 6, as Im satisfied it 
ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr G may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr G in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr G would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Cashfloat shouldnt have given Mr G loans 4 to 6.
If Cashfloat has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Cashfloat is not able to buy the debts back then Cashfloat 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Cashfloat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr G towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Cashfloat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr G 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Cashfloat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr G as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr G having made 
overpayments then Cashfloat should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Cashfloat should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Mr G. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Cashfloat should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr G. Cashfloat shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off.
E) Cashfloat should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Bs credit file in 
relation to loans 4 to 6.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to deduct tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
should give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax Cashfloat has deducted, if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Western Circle Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman