DRN-4134213
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) shut his local branch where he carried 
out his banking. Mr W would like Santander to reopen the branch.
What happened
Mr W carried out his banking at a local branch of Santander. Santander made the decision to 
close this branch in June 2021.
Mr W complained to Santander about this. Santander explained that following review of its 
customers banking habits it made the business decision to close the branch and provided Mr 
W with the details of alternative branches or ways he could continue to bank with it.
Mr W was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Santander was entitled to make the decision to close branches and that we dont have the 
power as an organisation to ask a bank to reopen them as it was a commercial decision of 
Santander.  
Mr W has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr W has experienced and see if Santander has done 
anything wrong or treated him unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr W back 
in the position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
In this case following consideration and review of customers using one of its branches and 
their banking habits, Santander took the decision to close this branch. The branch was Mr 
Ws local branch and has inconvenienced him and others he knows as for some the nearest 
alternative branch it is a bus ride away.
I sympathise with Mr W and appreciate how this decision has inconvenienced him  but 
ultimately, as has already been explained, the decision taken by Santander is a commercial 
decision and not something that I can look at or help with. I cant tell Santander where it 
should operate, nor can I force Santander to keep providing a service from a particular 
location. 
I would however expect Santander to support customers who are affected by this change. I 
can see that Santander have provided Mr W with information on alternative branches he can 
visit and available ATM machines locally, as well as other ways of banking - including online 
and phone banking which dont require a visit and may be easier. Santander has also 
provided a phone number where Mr W can get support which I think is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
I accept this is not what Mr W wants, but as I cant tell Santander how it should run its 
business including whether to keep a branch open, I cant say Santander has done anything 
wrong. And as Santander has provided Mr W with what I consider reasonable banking 
alternatives, I dont think it has treated Mr unfairly. So it follows I do not uphold Mr Ws 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman