DRN-4112102
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice given by Radcliffe & Company (Life & Pensions) Limited 
(Radcliffe) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme along with two defined-contribution (DC) pensions, to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
Mr L approached Radcliffe in 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Mr L was 
prompted to seek advice because one of his colleagues had recently died leaving his partner 
with a reduced pension and nothing for his children  Mr L didnt want the same thing to 
happen to his family.   
Radcliffe completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ls circumstances and 
objectives. Amongst other things this recorded that Mr L was married; he was 55; he was 
employed; he owned his own home; he had three pensions  one of which was a DB 
scheme - he wanted to review; he was looking to retire at age 60 if affordable  he needed at 
least £1,000 a month; and death benefits were a major concern of his. Radcliffe also carried 
out an assessment of Mr Ls attitude to risk, which it deemed to be low medium  a score of 
four out of ten.
On 16 April 2018 Radcliffe advised Mr L to transfer his DB and DC pension benefits into a 
SIPP and invest the proceeds using the services of a discretionary fund manager (DFM). 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that Mr L was looking to 
retire early at age 60 and it was important for him to have the ability to draw his pension 
benefits flexibly according to his future needs. Mr L also wanted to provide death benefits for 
his dependants. Radcliffe also recommended that because Mr L was contributing to one of 
his DC pension schemes, he should leave the plan open to receive the ongoing 
contributions. It said once the funds had built up each year a further transfer to the new SIPP 
would be made.
Mr L accepted the recommendation and around £233,000 was transferred to his new SIPP 
and invested in line with the recommended strategy.
Mr L complained to Radcliffe in 2022, via a representative, about the suitability of the 
transfer advice. Mr L said he believed the advice he received was negligent and as a result 
hed suffered a loss.
 
Radcliffe didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It provided a substantive response  but in 
summary it considered the advice it provided to Mr L was suitable - it met his needs, 
objectives and aspirations despite the risks, which it made Mr L fully aware of and he agreed 
to. It said it didnt believe Mr L had suffered a financial loss.
Mr L then referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
required Radcliffe to pay compensation. In summary they said given the growth rate or 
critical yield required to match Mr Ls DB scheme benefits it was likely he would receive 
substantially lower overall retirement benefits as a result of transferring and investing in line 
with his attitude to risk. They said Mr L had no firm retirement plans and he didnt know what 
his expenditure in retirement was likely to be so he shouldnt have been advised to give up 
his guaranteed benefits at this time. They also said there was nothing to indicate Mr L 
needed flexibility or a variable income in retirement; death benefits shouldnt have been 
prioritised over Mr Ls security in retirement; there was nothing to suggest Mr L needed 
control over his pension; and there was no genuine reason for Mr L to be concerned about 
the financial stability of his DB scheme. So they didnt think it was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr L to transfer out of his DB scheme.
They went on to explain that given the higher charges Mr L would incur by transferring his 
DC schemes to the recommended investment strategy, together with the fact that they 
werent persuaded Mr Ls DC schemes were invested unsuitably given his attitude to risk, 
they thought Mr L was better off leaving his DC pensions where they were.
Radcliffe didnt respond to the investigators opinion. So because things couldnt be resolved 
informally, the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Radcliffe's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Radcliffe 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ls best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Transfer of Mr Ls DB scheme
Financial viability 
Radcliffe carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing 
how much Mr Ls pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr L was 55 at the time of the advice and he indicated he wanted to retire at 60 if it was 
affordable. The critical yield required to match Mr Ls benefits at age 60 was 21% if he took a 
full pension and 16% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. Radcliffe also 
produced figures based on Mr Ls schemes normal retirement age of 65  the respective 
yields were 12% and 10%. The critical yields to match the benefits available through the 
PPF at age 60 were quoted as 11.8% per year if Mr L took a full pension and 10.2% per year 
if he took a reduced pension. And at 65 they were 6.6% and 5.8% respectively.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.0% per year for four years to retirement (age 60) and 3.7% per year for nine years to 
retirement (age 65.) Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained 
unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ls 
assessed low medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. I can see the 
investigator considered Mr L was a low-risk investor. But I think whether Mr L was a low risk 
investor or a low medium risk investor, given the definitions on Radcliffes attitude to risk 
scale, I think more broadly Mr L can be considered a cautious investor. 
In my view there would be little point in Mr L giving up the guarantees available to him 
through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. But here, based on Mr Ls target retirement date of age 60, the lowest critical yield 
was 16%. And at age 65 it was still 10%. Given this, I think Mr L was likely to receive 
benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement as a result of 
investing in line with a low medium attitude to risk. The returns required were significantly 
above both the discount rate and the regulators upper projection rate. 
In my view, to have even come close to achieving the level of return required wouldve 
required Mr L to take significant investment risk  and even then I think its likely Mr L would 
be no better off by transferring. I dont think the position was very different if the scheme 
moved to the PPF .
I can see from the suitability report that Radcliffe believed it was more appropriate to use 
reasonable assumed future investment returns because Mr L wasnt considering an annuity 
purchase on retirement. Radcliffe produced analysis which showed that by taking the same level of income at age 60 as Mr Ls DB scheme provided within a flexible drawdown, to have 
sufficient funds until age 85, Mr L needed an investment return of 3.7% a year.
But Radcliffes analysis was based on taking the same level of income as Mr Ls DB scheme 
would provide. As I said above, there would be little point in transferring to achieve a position 
no better than if Mr L had remained in his DB scheme. So If Mr L took a higher income, it 
wouldve required a greater level of investment return or Mr L wouldve run out of money 
sooner. Im also mindful that this analysis did not take into account any stress testing for 
periods of poor performance to show the effect this would have on Mr Ls fund. So Im not 
persuaded this demonstrates the financial viability of the transfer.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ls best interests. But I 
accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations, which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
Mr L indicated that he wanted to retire at age 60 if it was affordable. Radcliffe recommended 
Mr L transfer his pension because of this and because it was important to him to have the 
ability to draw his pension benefits flexibly - i.e. to vary his income according to his future 
needs.
But Ive not seen anything to show that Mr L had made any firm plans at this stage such that 
Mr L wouldve understood that he needed flexibility  so I cant see why it was important to 
him. I also dont think he had a strong need for variable income throughout his retirement. 
Its recorded in the fact-find that Mr L didnt have a set target income  his income need was 
purely based on meeting his current expenditure of £1,000 a month. So its clear that Mr L 
hadnt yet given this any detailed thought. And I cant see that Radcliffe considered this in 
any detail. No detailed income and expenditure in retirement analysis was carried out to 
determine what Mr Ls likely income need would be or whether he truly had a need for a 
variable income. It therefore didnt help Mr L answer the important question of whether 
retiring at 60 was affordable for him.
I accept Mr L was likely keen to retire early  I think if asked most people would say the 
same thing. But Radcliffes role wasnt simply to facilitate a customer's objective and what 
Mr L might have thought he wanted. Mr Ls desire to want to retire early didnt outweigh 
Radcliffes responsibility to provide him with suitable advice and act in his best interests.
I dont think Radcliffe should have advised Mr L to transfer out of his DB scheme, giving up 
guaranteed benefits in doing so, for the possibility of him being able to retire early when I 
dont think he had concrete plans to do so at this stage and when Radcliffe hadnt 
established whether it was realistic or affordable for him. Because of this Im not persuaded 
Mr L had a genuine need for flexibility in how or when he took his pension benefits, or that it 
was a real objective at this stage  I think it was simply a consequence of transferring out to 
a different arrangement.
Notwithstanding this, it appears Mr L already had a degree of flexibility in how and when he 
accessed some of his pension benefits  so he didnt need to transfer his DB scheme to 
achieve this. Mr L didnt have a retirement income target  but his current expenditure was 
recorded as being £1,000 a month. If Mr L took benefits from the DB scheme at 60, 
according to Radcliffes analysis he would be entitled to an annual income of around £8,300  
 albeit another document it has provided shows an annual income of around £8,600. This 
would not have met Mr Ls £1,000 a month expenditure need. But I still think Mr L had a 
better chance of achieving things by remaining in the DB scheme until his state pension became payable.
Mr L had two DC schemes, one of which he and his employer were contributing to. The 
value of this pension was around £25,000 at the time. And based on another five years 
contributions (to age 60) based on Mr Ls annual income at the time, this wouldve added 
another £10,000 or more. So not accounting for growth, this couldve been worth upwards of 
£35,000. Mr Ls other DC scheme had a value of just under £15,000. So at age 60 Mr L 
would have a combined flexible pension provision of £50,000 or possibly more. If Mr L did 
want to retire at 60, I think he couldve achieved things by taking income and/or lump sums 
from these pensions to supplement the income from his DB scheme  he already had the 
option of early retirement through his scheme. And I think this wouldve likely enabled him to 
meet his income need  at least until his state pension became payable. Of course if Mr L 
delayed his retirement until 65, with an expected DB scheme income of around £11,500 a 
year, there was greater potential for Mr L to meet his retirement income by adopting this 
approach.
Ultimately, Radcliffe had to determine whether giving up the secure, guaranteed benefits 
available through Mr Ls DB scheme was in his best interest. And for the reasons above, I 
dont think Radcliffe did act in Mr Ls best interests  I dont think the recommendation to 
transfer was suitable.
Death benefits
The advice paperwork records that Mr L was keen on providing death benefits for his family 
 this appears to be one of the key reasons he sought advice.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr L  particularly given what 
had happened to his friend and colleague. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are 
important to consumers, and Mr L might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr L about 
what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement  it is not a legacy planning tool. And I dont think Radcliffe properly 
explored to what extent Mr L was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange 
for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr L 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr L predeceased him. I dont think Radcliffe made the value of this benefit 
clear enough to Mr L. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
So if investment returns were lower than expected and/or Mr L lived a long life, there might 
not be much left to pass on anyway. In any event, Radcliffe should not have encouraged 
Mr L to prioritise the potential for higher or different death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr L genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which as Ive already 
said appears to have been his motivation for seeking advice in the first place, and which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his, I 
think Radcliffe shouldve instead explored life insurance. And it neednt have been the case 
that the sum assured had to be based on the combined transfer value  that would assume 
Mr L would pass away on day one following the transfer, which although possible, wasnt 
likely. The starting point ought to have been to ask Mr L how much he would ideally like to 
leave to his spouse and/or children, and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be cheaper to provide. Ive not seen anything to 
show or suggest this wasnt affordable for Mr L, so I think this shouldve formed part of 
Radcliffes advice and recommendation. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension arrangement justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr L. And I dont 
think that insurance was properly explored as a viable alternative.
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
The advice paperwork refers to Mr Ls concerns about the funding position of his DB scheme 
 the suitability report says: You have confirmed that you have serious concerns regarding 
the financial stability of the pension scheme therefore you wish to break all ties...and would 
prefer to move your funds away from them.
Im not persuaded that the funding of his previous employers DB scheme was in a position 
such that Mr L should have genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension. But 
it was Radcliffes role to give Mr L an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests. I think to allay any concerns Mr L might have had, Radcliffe couldve better 
explained the role of the PPF and that even if the scheme did end up moving to it, this 
neednt have been a concern for Mr L. As Ive explained above, Mr L was still unlikely to 
match, let alone exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if he transferred out to 
a personal pension arrangement.
So I dont consider Mr Ls concerns about the future funding position of the DB scheme 
justified the recommendation to transfer.
Use of DFM 
Radcliffe recommended that Mr L use a DFM to manage his pension funds. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr L, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr L should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the DFM would 
not have had the opportunity to manage his funds if suitable advice had been given.
Transfer of Mr Ls DC pensions
Part of Radcliffes advice included Mr L transferring his two DC pension scheme benefits to 
the SIPP. But I dont think this was necessary or was suitable advice for Mr L in the 
circumstances. My reasons for this are essentially two-fold.
Firstly, because the intended investment management of Mr Ls funds was utilising the 
services of a DFM, the charges Mr L incurred were higher. The advice paperwork shows that 
Mr L was currently being charged annual management charges of 0.24% on one pension 
and 0.47% on the other. By transferring Mr L would incur the DFMs annual charge of 0.70% 
plus VAT (a minimum of £250 per quarter), the SIPP fee as well as the ongoing advice fee. 
This meant that, according to Radcliffes analysis, Mr Ls new SIPP would have to 
outperform his existing DC schemes by 1.10% a year and 0.90% a year respectively just to 
match the projected growth rate of 2.44% (net) to age 65. So to exceed the expected growth 
would require consistent returns in excess of that. In my view this was unlikely to 
consistently be achieved given Mr Ls low medium attitude to risk and the term to retirement.
Secondly Mr L already had flexibility in how he ultimately took the benefits from his DC 
schemes. So he wasnt gaining anything here by transferring. Im mindful too that Mr Ls DC schemes were invested in lifestyle type strategies, where the 
level of investment risk reduces the closer to retirement in an attempt to preserve capital and 
growth and avoid large fluctuations in values. In my view Mr Ls existing funds in terms of 
asset class and the percentage allocated to them was not significantly out of line with the 
attitude to risk hed indicated he was prepared to take such that there was benefit in moving 
them. Im also mindful that Radcliffe doesnt appear to have been too concerned with the 
fund choice of Mr Ls employer DC scheme because they recommended Mr L maintain it to 
receive his contributions and allow the funds to build up each year before making a further 
transfer.
In any event, Radcliffe noted that Mr L had a not insignificant range of investment funds he 
could choose to switch into within the existing plans. So if Radcliffe believed there was a risk 
profile mismatch and Mr L would benefit from a switch, I think it couldve advised him on 
using these alternative funds, which wouldve been at a lower cost to Mr L.
For these reasons I dont think the recommendation to transfer Mr Ls DC pensions to a 
SIPP using a DFM was suitable - I think he was better off leaving them where they were.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher or different death benefits on 
offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr L. But 
Radcliffe wasnt there to just transact what Mr L might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr L needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr L was suitable. By transferring his DB scheme 
benefits he was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, 
Mr L was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other 
particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. I dont think Mr L 
shouldve been advised to transfer out of the scheme for flexibility and because of Mr Ls 
desire to retire early when he had no firm plans or idea about his income needs at this stage. 
And the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated 
with his DB scheme. I also dont think Mr L was better off by transferring his DC pension 
benefits to a SIPP either given the extra charges hed incur as a result and the term to 
retirement.
So, I think Radcliffe shouldve advised Mr L to remain in his DB scheme and leave his DC 
pensions invested where they were.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr L would've gone ahead anyway, against Radcliffe's 
advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr L wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Radcliffes advice. 
I say this because Ive seen nothing to indicate Mr L was an experienced investor who 
possessed the requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to go against the advice they were 
given, particularly in complex pension matters. Mr L had a fairly cautious approach to 
investment risk and his pensions accounted for all of his private retirement provision. So, if 
Radcliffe had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of his DB and DC 
schemes, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that 
advice.Im not persuaded that Mr Ls concerns about his death benefits and the financial standing of 
his DB scheme were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a 
professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it 
was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Radcliffe had explained that Mr L could likely 
meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension or incurring higher charges 
on investing his DC pension funds, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont 
think Mr L would have insisted on transferring out of the DB and DC schemes.
In light of the above, I think Radcliffe should compensate Mr L for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mr L as far as possible in the position he would be in 
now if Radcliffe had given him suitable advice. I think Mr L would have remained in the DB 
scheme. I also think, more likely than not he would have retained his existing personal 
pension arrangements.
What should Radcliffe do?
To compensate Mr L fairly, Radcliffe must determine the combined fair value of his 
transferred pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual 
value is greater than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
fair value  step one
If Mr L had been given suitable advice, I think he would have remained in the DB scheme. 
Radcliffe must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mr L lost as a result of 
transferring out of his DB scheme in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the 
regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
For clarity, Mr L has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, the 
calculation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ls 
acceptance of the decision.
fair value  step two
Radcliffe should compare the value of Mr Ls SIPP with the notional value of both of the DC 
pensions to determine the fair value of Mr Ls defined contribution pensions if suitable advice 
had been given. 
The notional value is the value of the defined contribution pensions if they had remained with 
the existing provider. Radcliffe should request that the provider calculate these values.In the event that it isnt possible to obtain any notional value from the provider involved,  
Radcliffe should compare the total value of the DC pensions transferred to the SIPP with that 
of the benchmark shown below to determine the fair value of Mr Ls DC pensions if suitable 
advice had been given.
Investment
nameStatus Benchmark From (Start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Value of the 
DC pensions 
transferredStill existsFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Radcliffe 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out
of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number
of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Radcliffe totals all those
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Radcliffe should:
always calculate and offer Mr L redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr L before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr L receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr L accepts Radcliffes offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr L for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
andtake a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ls end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr L as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Radcliffe may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ls likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr L wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr L's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr L into that position. It does not mean that Mr L 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr L could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Radcliffe & Company 
(Life & Pensions) Limited to pay Mr L the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Radcliffe & Company (Life & Pensions) Limited pays Mr L the balance.
If Mr L accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Radcliffe & Company 
(Life & Pensions) Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr L can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman