DRN-3567694
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Platform Funding Limited would not offer them a new interest 
rate on their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Platform in 2011. They borrowed £180,000 over 20 
years on a repayment basis, with a loan to value of under 60%.
Their mortgage was on a tracker rate. For the first two years, it tracked the Bank of England 
base rate with a margin of 2.19% and a floor of 2.69%. After two years it reverted to a 
tracker margin of 4.25% above base rate with a floor of 4.75%. From that point onwards, 
there was no early repayment charge applicable. This happened in December 2013. 
In July 2014, Mr and Mrs M asked Platform for a new interest rate. It said that it didnt offer 
new rates to existing customers, and so Mr and Mrs M remained on the higher reversionary 
tracker rate.
In 2016, their mortgage was transferred from Platform to another lender in the same group. 
What happened thereafter is the subject of a separate complaint against that lender. 
Mr and Mrs M complained that they were not given access to a new interest rate in 2014 as 
an existing customer of the sort that Platform made available to new customers. They said 
theyd paid too much mortgage interest as a result.
Platform said it had no obligation to offer new rates, and it didnt offer them to any existing 
customers. There was nothing to stop Mr and Mrs M moving their mortgage to another 
lender if they thought they could get a better rate, and no early repayment charge (ERC) 
applied after the end of the initial two year tracker period.
Mr and Mrs M told our investigator that they didnt think there was any reason why they 
wouldnt able to move to another lender; rather, they had decided not to do so as they 
thought it likely the savings wouldnt outweigh the costs and inconvenience of switching 
lender.
Our investigator didnt think Platform had acted fairly in making new interest rates available 
to new customers but not to existing customers. He said that Platform could have offered to 
take Mr and Mrs M through a new customer application and offer them a new mortgage to 
replace the old one.
Platform didnt agree. It said it did not, at the time, offer new rates to existing customers. And 
it had never suggested, in the mortgage offer or otherwise, that it would. There was no 
obligation on it to do so. And the position was the same for all existing customers, so Mr and 
Mrs M had not been treated unfairly.
Platform explained that it was an intermediary only lender, and did not accept applications 
from customers direct. It said Mr and Mrs Ms broker should have advised them of that when 
they took their mortgage out in 2011, and should have contacted them in 2013 to help them 
find a new rate with a new lender if that was what they wanted. So while it could have 
considered a new customer application from Mr and Mrs M in 2014, that would need to come 
from a broker not from Mr and Mrs M direct.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the case. I said:
At the relevant time, Platform was an intermediary only lender. That means it did not deal 
directly with customers  at least as far as mortgage applications were concerned.
Customers had to go via a mortgage broker, as indeed Mr and Mrs M did when taking out 
their mortgage in 2011. This is a business model that some lenders adopt, and is not of itself 
unfair or in breach of regulation.
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage offer says that their initial tracker rate ends after two years, at 
which point the mortgage moves onto the higher reversionary tracker rate for the remainder 
of the term.
Theres nothing in the terms of the mortgage contract that says that Mr and Mrs M are 
entitled to a new interest rate after the initial two year period, or that Platform has to offer 
them a new rate.
And there was nothing in the rules of mortgage regulation that required Platform to offer new 
rates either. Although its a common feature of the mortgage industry that lenders offer new 
rates to existing customers, and for that reason customers might expect their lender to do 
so, not all lenders make new rates available to their customers and theres nothing that says 
that a lender has to do so.
There are, in general terms, two main reasons for a lender offering preferential interest rates 
 to attract new customers, and to retain existing customers. Depending on an individual 
lenders business model, it may put more or less emphasis on each of those  and price its 
products accordingly. Thats a legitimate commercial decision for a firm to make and  
provided that doing so does not result in unfairness in the circumstances of an individual 
complaint  not one for me to interfere in.
Platform says that at the relevant time, it would not consider direct applications for new rates 
from existing customers whose previous rates had come to an end. Customers would 
instead need to consult a mortgage broker who could advise them on their options. Those 
options might include applying to another lender to move their mortgage elsewhere, or 
applying to Platform for a new mortgage to replace the existing one. But this was the only 
route by which an existing customer could take a new rate.
Im satisfied that this was in fact Platforms business model, and therefore that in refusing to 
consider a new rate when Mr and Mrs M contacted it directly in July 2014 Platform was 
operating in line with its policy and procedure. So Ive then gone on to consider whether that 
resulted in unfairness in the specific circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms case.
As I say, there is no regulatory or contractual requirement for a lender to offer its customers 
new rates.
There are however regulatory requirements aimed both at fair treatment more widely, and 
aimed at fair treatment between different borrowers of the same lender when seeking 
interest rates.The rules specifically for mortgages are found in the mortgages section of the regulator, the 
FCAs, Handbook, known as MCOB.
MCOB 11.8.1 E says
Where a customer is unable to:
(1) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan or vary the 
terms of an existing regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan with the 
existing mortgage lender or home purchase provider; or
(2) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan with a new 
mortgage lender or home purchase provider,
the existing mortgage lender or home purchase provider should not (for example, by 
offering less favourable interest rates or other terms) take advantage of the customers 
situation or treat the customer less favourably than it would treat other customers with 
similar characteristics. To do so may be relied on as tending to show contravention of 
Principle 6 (Customers interests).
Principle 6, one of the overarching principles for businesses, says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
The E means that 11.8.1 is not a rule (suffixed R) or guidance for firms (G); it means it is an 
evidential provision. Conduct of the sort set out in the provision may tend to show unfairness 
and a breach of Principle 6. However, depending on the circumstances, it may also not be 
unfair or a breach.
Ive thought about this provision carefully. However, I dont think it is engaged in the 
particular circumstances of this case.
I say that for two key reasons. In the first place, 11.8.1 E only applies to customers unable to 
a) enter into a new mortgage or vary their existing mortgage with their existing lender, or b) 
unable to move to a new lender.
Im not persuaded, on the evidence, that Mr and Mrs M meet these criteria. When they took 
their loan out with Platform in 2011, they passed a full affordability and credit risk 
assessment. At that time Platform was a mainstream lender (albeit only accessible via a 
broker) with mainstream lending criteria. Im not aware that Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances 
had changed by 2014 such that they would be unable to pass the affordability and credit risk 
assessments of either Platform or any other lender.
Even if their circumstances had changed, after April 2014 there was flexibility in the rules 
which meant an existing lender did not need to carry out an affordability assessment when 
replacing an old mortgage with a similar new one. So this need not have been a bar to 
Mr and Mrs M applying for a new mortgage (via a broker) with Platform to replace the old 
one.
But in any case, it seems Mr and Mrs M didnt consult a broker or make an application, either 
to Platform or another lender, for a new mortgage.
I dont think I can fairly say that Platform should have done anything differently when no 
application was made to it. And Mr and Mrs M told our investigator that they didnt think there 
would have been anything about their circumstances stopping them moving to another lender. But they decided not to do so because they didnt think the inconvenience and fees 
associated with moving lender would have been worth it.
Im not therefore persuaded that Mr and Mrs M were unable to move their mortgage to a new 
lender had they wished to do so. And while they were unable to vary their existing mortgage 
with Platform  because it did not offer rates to existing customers  there was nothing to 
stop them applying to Platform, via a broker, as new customers and entering into a new 
mortgage with Platform. Ive not seen anything to suggest that its likely such an application 
would have been turned down, had Mr and Mrs M made it.
MCOB 11.8.1 E is primarily aimed at borrowers unable to shop around for a better deal than 
their reversionary rate  where other similar customers can do so, and are also treated more 
favourably by their existing lender, that might cause unfairness. But thats not Mr and Mrs 
Ms situation.
And, looking at matters in the broader terms of Principle 6 and whats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances, Im still not persuaded that Platform acted unfairly. It was not required 
to offer preferential rates to existing customers. And in choosing not to offer them to any 
existing customers (other than through taking out a new mortgage), it treated all existing 
customers in the same way.
Mr and Mrs M were not prevented, either by anything Platform did or by their own 
circumstances, from shopping around and moving to another lender for a better deal  or 
from re-applying to Platform for a new mortgage to replace this one. There was no 
requirement for Platform to offer them a new deal on their existing mortgage. And there was 
nothing Platform did, or anything in their circumstances, that prevented Mr and Mrs M from 
shopping around to get a better deal.
In all the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept my provisional decision. They responded to say:
While they accepted that Platform was entitled not to offer new rates to existing 
customers, if that was the case it should clearly have advised them of this when they 
took out their mortgage;
Had they been told this, they might not have taken the Platform mortgage in the first 
place  they dont want to have to move their mortgage to a new lender every few 
years as thats a time-consuming and expensive process;
In 2014, Platform told them it couldnt offer them a new rate on their existing 
mortgage. It should also have told them that it would have considered a new 
mortgage application via a broker. Had it done so, Mr and Mrs M would have 
consulted a broker to make that application. They believe Platform didnt do this to 
force them to remain on the SVR and pay too much interest;
An important part of fair treatment is giving customers sufficient information to make 
informed choices, and Platform didnt do this. 
Platform said it had nothing further to add to what had already been said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered again what I said in my provisional decision, and Ive taken careful note of 
the points Mr and Mrs M made in reply. For reasons Ill explain, I havent changed my mind. 
And so for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, reproduced above, I dont think I 
can fairly uphold this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs M took their mortgage out, the mortgage offer made clear that for the first 
two years they would be on a tracker rate, and at the end of that time, the mortgage would 
move onto a higher tracker rate. Theres nothing in the mortgage offer that suggests or 
promises that Platform would make a new rate available to them at that time.
I dont therefore think Platform misled Mr and Mrs M when offering them the mortgage. It 
didnt need to tell them that it definitely wouldnt offer them a new rate in the future  apart 
from anything else, it might change its policy on this over the full 20 year term, so it wouldnt 
be right to set out a definitive position in the offer. 
A new rate later on isnt something thats built into a mortgage offer from the start. Rather, 
its an application, made later on, to vary the mortgage by putting it on different terms. The 
mortgage Mr and Mrs M took out was for a two year tracker rate at a low margin followed by 
18 years on a higher margin. Taking a new rate later would involve changing the terms of the 
mortgage  swapping a period on the higher tracker rate for a new fixed rate (or lower 
tracker rate). So its not something thats set out in the mortgage offer from the start  either 
as a guarantee that a new rate definitely will be available, or as a warning that one definitely 
wont. 
Platform needed to give Mr and Mrs M clear, fair and not misleading information  and in 
telling them that their mortgage was on a tracker at a low margin for the first two years 
followed by a higher margin thereafter it did so. It made clear how the mortgage they were 
taking out would operate for the rest of the term, if neither Mr and Mrs M nor Platform 
changed it later.
It didnt tell them that there would be no rate available to them after the first two years  but 
not telling them that doesnt mean it had to offer them a new rate.
Platform did not sell the mortgage to Mr and Mrs M, their broker did. The broker  not 
Platform  recommended it to them. And so if the possibility of a new rate later on was 
important to them at the time they took it out, that was something to discuss with the broker, 
not Platform, and something for Mr and Mrs M and the broker to take into account as part of 
deciding if this was the right mortgage for them.
As far as what Platform told them in 2014 is concerned, it told them that it didnt offer new 
rates. That was true  it didnt offer new rates to existing customers. I dont think it was then 
also required to tell them that applying to Platform for a new mortgage was an option open to 
them. Mr and Mrs M could only do that by consulting a broker  and that was only one of the 
options open to them (others included staying on the SVR, or moving to another lender). 
Mr and Mrs M had used a broker two years before to take out this mortgage, so they knew 
that getting advice from a broker was an option open to them. Platform doesnt deal with new 
mortgage applications direct, and doesnt advise customers about its mortgages. I dont think 
it was required to advise Mr and Mrs M to consult a broker in 2014. 
Mr and Mrs M asked Platform for a new rate; it told them it couldnt offer one. I dont think it 
needed to do more than that. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman