DRN-3742040
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his motor insurer Covea Insurance plc in respect of repairs it 
undertook to his car and damage he believes it caused.
What happened
Mr Bs car was damaged in an accident and Covea agreed to repair it under the policy. 
Shortly after the car was returned to Mr B, with the repairs reportedly complete, he noticed 
signs of poor work to the area affected by the accident. But he also noted some crazing to 
the paintwork on the other side of the car. He felt this hadnt been present before the 
accident and repairs so Coveas repairer must have caused it. 
Covea instructed an engineer to assess the car. The repairer met with the engineer, which 
Mr B wasnt happy about. He didnt feel the engineer was independent. The engineer found 
there was poor work which needed rectifying and that would cost £1,146.94 (including VAT). 
But he felt the crazing had likely not been caused by the repairer.
Mr B disagreed, both in respect of the crazing and the cost for other work. Covea said it 
would complete the work and have an engineer assess it once done to ensure its quality. But 
Mr B wasnt prepared to do that. Covea paid him the amount the engineer recommended. 
And £250 compensation as it accepted it had caused some delay and miscommunication. 
Mr B got the work done at a cost of £2,579.27 and complained to us.
Our Investigator noted the expert engineers opinion and pricing for the work Covea was felt 
liable for. She felt settling in cash had been reasonable in the circumstances. Our 
Investigator noted there had been some poor service by Covea and that it had offered £250 
compensation which she felt was reasonable. She wasnt minded to make Covea do 
anything more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr B has doubts about the engineers independence. But it isnt unusual for industry 
engineers to know some of the repairers they are asked to check the work of. I havent seen 
any issue with the report completed or anything to make me think his findings were flawed 
due to bias or anything similar. I also havent seen anything from a similarly qualified 
engineer to refute the findings. I think the engineer reasonably determined that the crazing 
had not been caused by Coveas repairer and that the work, which had been done, needed 
rectification. 
It is frustrating when work is not completed to the standard a policyholder can reasonably 
expect. But even when that happens this service usually says its reasonable for an insurer 
to have a chance to rectify matters. Here once the engineer had determined what was 
needed, Mr B wasnt prepared to allow Covea that opportunity. Even though it said it would 
ensure the work was checked. So I think it settling for the accepted repairs on the basis of 
the engineers costing was fair and reasonable. 
I know the cost Ive set out in my background was the final sum offered by Covea. And that, 
at first, a lesser amount was offered because not all the necessary rework was included. Im 
also aware that Covea initially, wrongly advised Mr B that the crazing would be resolved too. 
I note Covea has paid £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it accepts 
Mr B was caused by these failures. I think that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Clearly Covea should have ensured that repairs to a good standard were completed in the 
first instance and it should also have taken care to handle things better. So Im satisfied that 
it did fail Mr B. But, given the settlement for repairs and compensation paid, Im not minded 
to make it do anything more. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Covea Insurance plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman