DRN-4163407
The complaint
Miss O complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
declining a claim under her pet insurance policy for treatment of her dog.
References to Red Sands include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Miss O had a pet insurance policy with Red Sands for her dog, which she took out in March 
2022. At the time, the dog had a problem and Miss O took it to a vet. They thought the issue 
could be a urinary tract infection (UTI). They also carried out an x-ray which indicated some 
signs of intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD). Medication was prescribed and an MRI 
scan was carried out (at a cost of £2,500) which confirmed signs of IVDD. They advised the 
dog should continue medication. 
However, in November 2022, the dog showed signs of a weaker hind leg and reluctant to get 
out of bed. Miss O took the dog to the vet and they referred it to a second vet. They 
diagnosed a ruptured disc and carried out surgery to correct the problem. Miss O contacted 
Red Sands and believed they told her (and the second vet when they contacted Red Sands) 
the cost of the surgery and investigation (totalling £7,086) would be covered under the policy 
(to the policy limit of £5,000). 
However, two days after the surgery, Miss O was contacted by Red Sands (and by the 
second vet) to be told they wouldnt cover the cost of the surgery (or the investigation costs) 
as they considered it to be for a pre-existing condition from the assessments carried out in 
March 2022, two days after the date the policy was taken out (so within the 14-day waiting 
period when cover wouldnt be provided).
Miss O didnt think the dog had a pre-existing condition, given the time between the 
assessments in March 2022 and the need for surgery in November 2022. She was also 
unhappy at what she believed Red Sands had told her (and her vet) about the claim for the 
surgery, that it would be covered. So, she complained to Red Sands.
Red Sands didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said review of the clinical 
history confirmed signs of the dogs degenerative disc and (IVDD) conditions were first noted 
in March 2022, within the 14-day waiting period. Had they been aware of these signs when 
the policy was taken out they would have applied exclusions to the policy for the two 
conditions. These would have excluded the investigation and surgery which took place in 
November 2022. So, they said the claim was correctly declined under the policy terms. 
On the point about Miss O (and her vet) believing theyd been told the claim would be 
covered, Red Sands said the calls with Miss O and the vet didnt guarantee cover for the 
claim  they were explicitly told cover couldnt be guaranteed over the phone. They also 
referred to a call with the vet in which they (the vet) referred to the degenerative discs being 
mentioned in March 2022 by the previous vet and that the condition had deteriorated and 
required surgery. In the call, Red Sands said they made it clear it was unlikely the claim 
would be accepted as the onset date for the condition was within the 14-day waiting period 
of the policy.
Miss O then complained to this service. She was unhappy at her claim for surgery and 
investigations being declined. She didnt think the dog had a pre-existing condition, as the 
surgery had taken place seven months after taking out the policy. She was also unhappy at 
what she thought was Red Sands telling her incorrect information (that the surgery would be 
covered under the policy). Shed had to cover the cost of the surgery and investigations. She 
wanted Red Sands to cover the cost of the surgery.
Our investigator didnt up hold the complaint, concluding Red Sands had correctly declined 
the claim given the condition of the dog was first noted in March 2022. From the calls leading 
up to the claim there wasnt anything to suggest cover was guaranteed. The calls indicate 
Red Sands were told the exclusion for pre-existing conditions would apply. 
Miss O disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In disagreeing, she said that visits to three previous vets indicated there was 
nothing wrong with the dogs back, so it didnt have a pre-existing condition. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Red Sands have acted fairly towards Miss O. 
The key issue in Miss Os complaint is whether Red Sands acted fairly in declining the claim 
for surgery on Miss Os dog. Red Sands view is that they correctly declined the request, on 
the grounds the dogs clinical history indicated the issue was the result of a pre-existing 
condition (within the 14-day waiting period when Miss O took out the policy). So, the claim 
for surgery was correctly excluded from cover. Miss Os view is that the dog didnt have a 
pre-existing condition.
Linked to this is the issue of whether Red Sands told Miss O (her vet) the surgery would be 
covered. Miss O says she (her vet) were told it would be. Red Sands say they didnt 
guarantee cover, and that they explicitly said cover couldnt be guaranteed over the phone. 
They also refer to a call with the vet in which the vet refers to the degenerative discs being 
mentioned in March 2022 by the previous vet (and that the condition had deteriorated and 
required surgery). Red Sands say they told the vet it was unlikely the claim would be 
accepted as the onset date for the condition was in the 14-day waiting period.
On the issue of the decline of the request because of the exclusion for a pre-existing 
condition Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of 
the policy, together with the supporting information and evidence, including the vets notes 
and the clinical history of Miss Os dog.
Ive first considered what the policy says about pre-existing conditions. The Policy Schedule, 
issued when the policy was taken out includes the following statement, under a heading of 
Your Exclusions:
Pre-existing conditions arent covered by this policy. We consider a condition to be 
pre-existing if your pet showed any signs or symptoms before the start date of your 
cover, whether they needed treatment or not. We can start covering some conditions 
again if they havent needed  or been recommended to have  treatment from you 
or the vet in the last 24 months. If a vet says a condition does need treatment during 
this time, and you delay getting it, we wont cover that condition.The policy booklet also includes the following statement under the heading What this policy 
covers (Section A: Vet Fees):
Claims at the beginning of your policy
We dont cover any accident or injury that happens within the first two days of your 
policy start date, or any illness that starts within the first 14 days.
Similar wording appears on pre-existing conditions and claims at the start of the policy in the 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which summarised the more important 
features of the policy.
I think this makes it clear, firstly, that pre-existing conditions arent covered, and that a pre-
existing condition includes signs or symptoms. And, secondly, any illness that starts in the 
first 14 days. While the pre-existing condition wording applies to the period before a policy 
starts, as the first assessment of the dog was carried out two days after the policy start, I 
think it likely that assessment would have indicated conditions (or signs or symptoms) 
present before the policy start.
Turning to the issue of whether there was a pre-existing conditions (or signs or symptoms of 
a condition) in their final response, Red Sands refer to the following extract from the first 
vets clinical notes in March 2022 (dated 11 March):
spinal palpitation? Abdominal or spinal pain. X-rays doneno narrowing of disc 
spaces but increased radio opacity of multiple spaces in thoraco-lumbar region  
calcification of discs, would need MRI to check for bulging or extrusion  no neuro 
deficit at this point but may decline in future.
The subsequent report later in March 2022 includes the following statement on the findings 
of the MRI scan:
An MRI of the whole spine showed signs consistent with generalised intervertebral 
disc degeneration, but no disc herniation/spinal cord compression 
The clinical notes in November 2022 also include reference to a return of back/abdo pain  
similar to March and the results of the MRI scan at that time. Theres a subsequent 
reference later in November 2022 to The history and clinical findings in this case are very 
suspicious of intervertebral disc disease
Miss O, when making her complaint, refers to the possible issue with a UTI when the dog 
was examined in March 2022 (and possibly a nerve issue). While these are mentioned in the 
clinical notes, the key here is whether there were signs or symptoms of the issue that 
subsequently led to the need for surgery in November 2022. 
Taking the statements above together, together with the policy terms about pre-existing 
conditions, Ive concluded they do indicate issues with the dogs spine at the time the policy 
was taken out (and within the 14-day waiting period). Im also persuaded these were clinical 
signs and symptoms of the condition that subsequently required surgery in November 2022. 
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, the onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. Given the clinical notes referenced above and 
my conclusion there were signs and symptoms when the policy was taken out of the 
condition that required surgery, then I think Red Sands have shown enough to support the 
view there was a pre-existing condition.So, Ive concluded Red Sands acted within the terms of the policy terms and conditions in 
declining the claim for surgery in November 2022 on the grounds it was in respect of a pre-
existing condition.
On the second issue, whether Miss O (her vet) were told cover for the claim (the surgery) 
was guaranteed, Ive listened to the call recordings. In none of them do Red Sands say the 
claim will be covered (or say they guarantee it will be covered). One call between the vet and 
Red sands includes the vet asking  given the previous clinical history in March 2022 and 
the MRI scan indicating IVDD  whether the surgery (which had taken place at that point) 
would be covered. Red Sands clearly say that while they cant give a guarantee (of whether 
the claim would be accepted or not) over the phone, they dont think it would be covered 
because of the previous assessment in the 14-day wating period. And the vet raises the 
point about it being a pre-existing condition.
So, Ive concluded there is no evidence Red Sands gave a guarantee the claim would be 
covered. And the evidence from the call recordings indicates they said it would be unlikely it 
would be covered because of the clinical history and assessments in the 14-day waiting 
period in March 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman