DRN-4240327
The complaint
Mr F has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc registered a marker against him at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
In mid-2021, Mr F received a total of around £1,000 from victims of fraud, which he 
forwarded to a cryptocurrency platform. NatWest tried to discuss the matter with him but 
received no reply. They registered a marker against him at CIFAS.
In 2023, Mr F came to our service. He explained the money was from a friend who owed him 
£400. He didnt want to say who the friend was. He had no record of any contact with this 
friend as it was all over Snapchat. He had no evidence of lending the money, and when we 
asked him when he lent it he didnt answer. He said he wasnt suspicious about the money 
coming from two strangers with different names to his friend, as his friend told him he was 
sending the money through family. He later said his friend told him the money was from 
colleagues. He was unable to evidence what he did with the money next.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F 
asked for an ombudsman to look at his case afresh, so the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, NatWest were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr F had done something wrong. They did need to have reasonable grounds to 
believe that hed misused his accounts, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and 
which had appropriate supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both 
sides have said and provided, I think NatWest did have sufficient grounds to register this 
marker. Ill explain why.
It's not in dispute that Mr F received and paid on the money involved. And NatWest received 
independent reports that the funds he received and paid on were the proceeds of fraud.
Mr F forwarded the fraudulent funds on to a cryptocurrency platform in such a way that the 
money could not be recovered. The way he did so is consistent with what Id expect from 
someone who was party to the fraud itself or who was acting as a money mule.
Its not clear what happened to the money next, as when we asked Mr F for statements from 
his cryptocurrency account he only sent us a screenshot showing that he had an account 
with a different crypto platform. But he confirmed he sent the fraudulent money to his own 
crypto account. And he didnt return the money to the victims. So as far as I can tell, Mr F 
seems to have been the main beneficiary of the fraud.
NatWest tried to discuss the matter with Mr F at the time, but he didnt reply. It wouldnt 
make sense for Mr F to choose not to engage with his bank if he thought the payments were 
genuine. His accounts had been blocked and NatWest had returned his remaining balance 
to the victims. So Mr F wouldve been highly motivated to speak to NatWest  he would want 
to find out why this was happening and would want to try to get his accounts unblocked and 
his money returned. But it would make sense for him to avoid discussing the matter if he 
knew he was taking part in illicit activity.
Mr F said the money was owed to him by a friend. But he said he lent the friend around 
£400, and the money he received was around £1,000. His testimony has been contradictory 
in other places, such as what he said his friend told him about where the money came from.  
Further, theres no evidence of him lending this money in the first place. I cant find any 
corresponding payment in his statements and he did not even answer us about when the 
lending took place. Indeed, hes been unable to provide any evidence of the lending or of 
any contact with this friend at all. I accept that many people use Snapchat for some of their 
communication, and that conversations auto-delete. But it is not plausible that Mr F would 
have absolutely no evidence of contact with this friend  no texts, emails, WhatsApp 
messages, social media messages and so on  if he was so close to this person that he was 
willing to lend them hundreds of pounds. Indeed, as Mr F has refused to give any details 
about this friend beyond their first name, we have no evidence this person even exists.
Mr F felt he was being treated unfairly just for saving his money in crypto. To be clear, the 
issue here is not that he uses crypto in and of itself. Its that he received the proceeds of 
fraud, forwarded them on in such a way that they couldnt be recovered, wouldnt discuss the 
matter when his bank tried to investigate, didnt show what he did with the money, gave 
implausible and contradictory testimony, and has been unable to evidence any entitlement to 
the money even when it shouldve been relatively straightforward to evidence. So taking 
everything into account, it seems fair that NatWest registered a marker against him at 
CIFAS. It follows that it was also fair they closed his accounts, which they were allowed to do 
under the terms. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message 
for Mr F to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im 
unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman