DRN-2027410
The complaint
Mr G says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt do enough to help when he fell victim to a 
scam. He says HSBC should have done more to recover the money he lost and that it 
should reimburse him.
What happened
On 2 June 2018 and 4 June 2018 Mr G made two online payments. The first was for £1,100 
and the second was for £1,000. Mr G made the payments as a deposit for a holiday.
Unfortunately this was a scam and the holiday company Mr G was using were in fact 
imitating a legitimate holiday company that Mr G had used before. There was a slight 
discrepancy in the spelling of business name  meaning Mr G wasnt actually corresponding 
with the legitimate holiday company. Mr G had concerns after the company then requested 
the full outstanding balance to be paid despite no tickets being received. Mr G then 
contacted the hotel directly and discovered it had been booked and then cancelled. 
The payment for £1,100, made on 2 June 2018, was credited to the beneficiary bank (the 
bank used by the scammer) on 2 June 2018 at 16:08pm. 
The payment for £1,000, made on 4 June 2018, was credited to the beneficiary bank on 
4 June 2018 at 18:17pm. 
Nearly all of the funds had been withdrawn by 5 June 2018 at 05:02am and some low value 
amounts had subsequently been taken out of the account to clear it by 05:01am on 6 June 
2018. 
Mr G said he tried to contact HSBC by phone on 6 June 2018 in the evening and was told to 
go into a branch the next day. HSBCs records indicate the fraud claim was logged on 
7 June 2018.
Unhappy with what had happened Mr G raised his concerns. HSBC responded on two 
occasions. The first was on 15 June 2018 explaining that it was unable to assist and that the 
matter was between Mr G and the beneficiary. The second response from HSBC was on 
21 November 2018. HSBC acknowledged that Mr G had been a victim of a scam but was 
unable to reimburse him as Mr G had authorised the payment and it had followed its legal 
obligation to process the transaction in accordance with his instruction. On both responses 
HSBC didnt advise Mr G that he could refer the matter to our service if he remained 
unhappy. 
Mr G pursued the matter with HSBC again in 2019. In July 2019, HSBC issued a further 
response to Mr G reiterating its stance that the payments were actioned at Mr Gs request 
and considered no error had been made on its part. It also explained that it was unable to 
retrieve any funds for Mr G.
Within HSBCs letter it advised Mr G that he could refer the matter to our service if he 
remained unhappy. Mr G subsequently brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld as they didnt think HSBC ought 
to have done more to identify the payments as potentially fraudulent in the circumstances. 
And they also felt HSBC couldnt have reasonably done anymore to try and recover the 
funds from the beneficiary bank as the funds had already been withdrawn prior to the scam 
being reported. 
Mr G disagreed with the investigators assessment. Mr G still thought HSBC could have 
done more to recover the funds and HSBC should be able to retrieve the funds from the 
beneficiary bank as it was their customer who was fraudulent, and he shouldnt lose out as a 
result.    
As the matter hasnt been resolved it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
It is the case that Mr G authorised the transfers in dispute and thats accepted by all parties. 
And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in 
place here) that means Mr G is responsible for them. That remains the case even though 
Mr G was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like HSBC have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr G when he made two payments of £1,100 and £1,000 to a new payee, or whether it 
should have done more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. From what Ive seen, there isnt anything unusual or 
remarkable about the payment or the amount that ought to have alerted HSBC to the 
possibility Mr G was being scammed. Banks process a high volume of transfers and 
transactions each day. And a bank has to strike a balance as to when it should possibly 
intervene on a payment against not holding up or delaying its customers requests. In this case, Mr G had enough funds in his account each time, the payments werent clearing 
or emptying Mr Gs account and they werent so out of character that there could reasonably 
be grounds for HSBC to be suspicious Mr G may be a victim of fraud. So, I think the fact that 
HSBC didnt flag the payments as suspicious was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
However, even if HSBC had flagged the payments as suspicious with Mr G, Im not 
persuaded he wouldnt still have authorised them. I say that because of the sophisticated 
nature of the scam, and the fact that Mr G had previously used the legitimate travel company 
before and was unaware he was actually, at that time, liaising with a scammer who had 
imitated the legitimate company. So had HSBC sought to question Mr G further about the 
payments I think its likely he would have said it was a deposit to a travel company he had 
used before and was happy for the payment to proceed. It simply wasnt known at that time 
that Mr G was in fact in contact with a scammer. 
I appreciate that Mr G says he tried to call HSBC on 6 June 2018 to report the scam and 
considers more could have been done at this point by HSBC to retrieve the funds. However 
all of the funds had already been withdrawn completely by the scammer prior to any attempt 
Mr G made to contact HSBC on 6 June 2018. So had HSBC reached out to the beneficiary 
bank on the 6 June 2018 to try and recover the funds, unfortunately there still would not 
have been any funds for it to return as the scammer had already removed the funds by this 
time.
Mr G says HSBC should reimburse him as he has lost money to a scam and it should seek 
to obtain the funds from the beneficiary bank as their customer is fraudulent. I believe Mr G 
is likely referring to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. This is a voluntary 
code introduced with effect from 28 May 2019 to help those banks signed up to it to prevent 
such scams and better support their victims. Although HSBCs signed up to the code, the 
beneficiary bank isnt. And importantly, the voluntary code doesnt apply retrospectively. It is 
only for payments made on or after 28 May 2019. So I dont believe it would be fair for me 
to find that HSBC should comply with it in this case.
Overall, while I appreciate Mr Gs been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think HSBCs 
decision not to refund him in this instance was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
say this because it followed Mr Gs instructions to make the payments and I havent seen 
any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And unfortunately, as the funds had already 
been withdrawn prior to HSBC being notified of the scam it wasnt able to recover the funds 
or do anything to help Mr G further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021. 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman