DRN-3947162
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wrongly failed to refund payments he 
made by direct debit for a service he says that he did not receive.
What happened
Mr K holds an account with Santander. He says that he set up a direct debit in February 
2020 to pay monthly for an ongoing course provided by another business.
Santander says that the direct debit was set up in February 2019. It says that Mr K cancelled 
the direct debit in February 2020, and the final payment was made under that direct debit on 
1 February 2020.
Mr K says that the course was stopped by the restrictions which were imposed in response 
to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr K has further provided evidence to show that the course for 
which he signed up was cancelled in June 2021. He requested that the bank refund the 
direct debits which had been paid, under the Direct Debit Guarantee. 
The bank initially refunded three of the monthly payments, but on investigation, considered 
that the other business had provided the service offered. The other business stated that the 
course was an online one to be completed in Mr Ks own time and at his own pace, and that 
remote support was offered. Santander considered that the dispute was about the standard 
or level of service provided. In the circumstances, it did not think that the guarantee or any 
indemnity applied to the payments, and it took them once again from Mr Ks account. 
Our investigator thought that it was reasonable for Santander to take the view that the direct 
debit guarantee did not apply here. The course appeared not to have been completed, but 
that did not mean that the bank should refund payments made toward it.
Mr K did not agree and so this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Direct Debit Guarantee covers errors made in the payment of direct debits. I have 
considered the entire Guarantee, and the most relevant section says:
If an error is made in the payment of your Direct Debit, by the organisation or your bank or 
building society, you are entitled to a full and immediate refund of the amount paid from your 
bank or building society.
The Guarantee also says that:
It cannot be used to address contractual disputes between you and the billing organisation.
Mr Ks complaint is that the service paid for was not provided, and that the payments should 
not therefore have been collected. This is a contractual dispute between Mr K and the 
course provider, and is not something which falls within the Guarantee. 
Nevertheless, Santander investigated the issue under the Guarantee and refunded three 
months payments while it did so. This did not, mean, however that the complaint was within 
the Guarantee, or that the bank had to continue to act as though it was. Our investigator has 
provided some useful comments about the nature of the course, and about the manner in 
which payments were made from Mr Ks account, but there is nothing there which brings Mr 
Ks claim within the terms of the Guarantee either.
There is nothing in the evidence which suggests that any of the payments which were made 
by direct debit were wrongly collected or that the Direct Debit Guarantee otherwise applies. 
Santander acted fairly to Mr K by refunding three months payments while it investigated the 
matter. But the Direct Debit Guarantee did not apply, so I am satisfied that it was not unfair 
or unreasonable for it to take that money back from him, or to not provide any further refund 
under the Guarantee here. So I am not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman