DRN-3749369
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy with the service she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding a 
transfer of £85,000 she attempted to make to a third-party bank.
What happened
On 8 January 2022, Miss D instructed HSBC to transfer £85,000 from her account held with 
a HSBC administered banking brand (which for simplicity, Ill refer to simply as HSBC from 
this point) to an account held in her name with a third-party bank. 
The attempted transfer was flagged by HSBCs fraud department who contacted Miss D on 
10 January and obtained confirmation from her that the transfer request was genuine. The 
next day, Miss D called HSBC because the money hadnt been received into her third-party 
bank account. Miss D called HSBC again on 14 January as the transfer still hadnt 
completed, when HSBC explained that theyd raised the matter with the recipient bank but 
hadnt yet received a response. Miss D wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Miss Ds complaint. They noted the money had been returned m by the 
other bank on 18 January because the recipient account details provided by Miss D when 
instructing the transfer hadnt been correct, and they didnt uphold the complaint. Miss D 
wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. During their review, HSBC confirmed that 
further investigation had shown they did in fact receive the returned money from the third-
party bank on 12 January, and not on 18 January as theyd first advised Miss D, and that the 
money should have been returned to Miss Ds account on 12 January. Because of this 
HSBC offered to pay Miss D £100 compensation for any trouble and upset incurred. 
Our adjudicator considered the new information provided by HSBC but felt that a payment of 
£150 would provide a fairer level of compensation for Miss D. HSBC accepted our 
adjudicators recommendation. However, Miss D remained dissatisfied and so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC have acknowledged that the money that Miss D attempted to transfer was returned to 
them on 12 January, and not on 18 January as they advised Miss D in their response to her 
complaint. HSBC have also acknowledged that the money should therefore have been 
returned to Miss Ds account on 12 January, which would have meant that Miss D wouldnt 
have had any cause to contact them again chasing the return of the money on 14 January. 
Finally, HSBC have accepted that by not keeping Miss D informed as to the status of the 
money in question that Miss D may have incurred a degree of worry and inconvenience that 
she reasonably ought not to have incurred.
Accordingly, HSBC have accepted the recommendation put forwards by our adjudicator to 
make a payment of £150 to Miss D as compensation for any trouble and upset she may 
have incurred. And, in consideration of the full circumstances of this complaint, I also feel 
that £150 compensation is a fair and reasonable amount here. 
One reason for this is that this compensation amount is solely for HSBC not making Miss D 
aware that the money had been returned them on 12 January. It must be noted that Miss D 
was receiving updates from the third-party bank who had returned the money to HSBC, and 
so there was a period of time during which the third-party bank had informed Miss D that the 
money had been returned, but during which HSBC hadnt acknowledged the receipt of the 
returned funds.
I can appreciate that this would have caused Miss D a degree of inconvenience in regard to 
her chasing the third-party bank for money that theyd already returned, and that Miss D may 
have been worried as to the status of her money, which was a relatively large sum, given 
that both the third-party bank and HSBC were advising that they didnt have it. 
But I feel it was always going to be the case that the money would be located by one bank or 
the other, and indeed it was only for a period of approximately a week that confirmation of 
the receipt of the money wasnt confirmed by HSBC to Miss D. And while I accept that this 
may have been a rather stressful week for Miss D, I do feel that a payment of £150 provides 
fair compensation for the impact that these events had on her during that time.
Miss D has explained that she wants a written apology from HSBC as well as an explanation 
of the changes theyve implemented to ensure that something similar doesnt happen again. 
But given that this complaint has been referred to our service, it wouldnt be expected that 
HSBC would communicate directly with Miss D about this matter at this stage, and I note 
that HSBC have already issued an apology to Miss D in their complaint response dated 21 
January. As such, I leave Miss Ds request here to HSBCs discretion and I dont feel that 
any further action should be instructed from HSBC in regard to this point. 
I also wont be asking HSBC to provide the explanation of changes made to Miss D that 
shes requesting here. One reason for this is because this this service isnt a regulatory body 
and as such it isnt within the remit of this service to instruct such explanations from HSBC 
as Miss D would like. Rather, the remit of this service is focussed on assessing whether an 
unfair outcome has occurred, and if so, what its felt that HSBC should fairly do to put it right. 
And, as explained above, I do feel that an unfair outcome has occurred here, and I feel that 
HSBC should make a compensation payment of £150 to Miss D to put it right.
Finally, I note that besides recommending HSBC to pay £150 compensation, our adjudicator 
also recommended that HSBC should pay any administrative costs that Miss D incurred. 
However, HSBC have confirmed that Miss D didnt incur any charge for the transfer, and so 
Im satisfied that there are no administration costs for HSBC to reimburse. And while Miss D 
may reference telephone costs she may have incurred, Im satisfied that the £150 
compensation payment Im instructing HSBC to make is fair and reasonable even in 
consideration of any potential telephone call costs Miss D may have incurred.
All of which means that, while I will be upholding this complaint in Miss Ds favour, Ill only be 
doing so to formally require HSBC to make the £150 compensation payment which theyve 
already agreed to pay. I realise this might not be the outcome Miss D was wanting, but I 
hope shell understand, given all Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
HSBC must make a payment of £150 to Miss D.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman