DRN-3144871
The complaint
Mr M complains about an unsecured loan given by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
(HBOS).
Mr M had said the loan was unaffordable for him so HBOS shouldnt have lent it to him.
What happened
Mr M applied for a loan with HBOS in October 2018. HBOS lent him £24,887.91 which was 
to be repaid over 79 monthly instalments of £483.50.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint. They concluded that HBOS didnt carry out 
proportionate checks before lending to Mr M. They said that if it had done so, it wouldve 
found that the loan was unaffordable to Mr M.
HBOS didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time Mr M took out the loan.
HBOS was required to lend responsibly. And it needed to check Mr M could afford to repay 
his loan sustainably in line with the rules set out in the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC), specifically CONC 5.3.1. 
There was no set list of checks HBOS needed to do, but the checks should have been 
proportionate to the circumstances of the loan, which might include considerations about the 
amount borrowed, Mr Ms borrowing history, and so on.
More specifically, I think that HBOS checks needed to be more thorough:
The lower a customers income;
The higher the amount due to be repaid;
The longer the term of the loan;
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans.
In making my decision, Ive first considered whether HBOS did everything it should have 
when assessing Mr Ms loan application. And, if I dont think it did, Ive gone on to consider 
whether or not any assessment failings resulted in HBOS agreeing to lend to Mr M when it 
should have known it was difficult for him to repay.
Having done so, I dont think HBOS should have given this loan to Mr M. Ill explain why 
below.
The checks HBOS completed
Mr M applied for the loan online. HBOS has provided details of his application. I can see it 
recorded details of his income as £3,000 per month, and monthly expenditure of £1,000. 
HBOS says it further calculated Mr Ms expenditure based on an internal statistical model 
which calculates essential living costs based on what it knows about a customer. It 
calculated Mr Ms essential monthly expenditure as £438. And it combined this with Mr Ms 
housing costs, unsecured credit commitments and other major commitments to determine a 
monthly disposable income of £1,116. So with this information alone, it looked like the loan 
was affordable for him.
But Ive looked further into Mr Ms circumstances at the time he applied for the loan. And I 
think there was sufficient evidence available to HBOS which demonstrated Mr M would find it 
difficult to meet the monthly repayments in a sustainable way.
At the time of the loan application, Mr M also held two current accounts with HBOS with 
overdraft facilities. And Mr M had previously taken 3 loans with HBOS between November 
2016 and March 2018. Each time Mr M applied for a higher amount and it appears that some 
of the funds were used to consolidate the previous loan balance. 
Mr Ms told us he was unable to extend his overdraft facility which is why he applied for a 
further loan with HBOS in October 2018. HBOS said it couldnt find evidence of an overdraft 
application  but looking at everything I think its possible Mr M was referring to an account 
he held with another banking provider.
Taking everything into account, I think there was enough evidence to suggest Mr M was 
finding it difficult to pay his existing commitments sustainably as he was relying on 
increasing loan amounts. This coupled with a decreasing gap in loan applications calls into 
question whether it was appropriate for HBOS to make an assumption on Mr Ms essential 
monthly outgoings, and as such a monthly disposable income of £1,116.
So I think HBOS should have asked more questions about the information Mr M provided 
and verified his answers to make sure he could maintain his repayments for the 79-month 
period. It couldve done this through a more detailed look at his essential monthly 
expenditure  including accounts outside of HBOS, or asked for further evidence of his 
income. 
HBOS has made the point that it isnt required under CONC or the Lending Code to verify   
Mr Ms income. And I agree. But as Ive set out, HBOS was required to ensure Mr M could 
make the repayments to the loan sustainably, and in order to do so it needed to ask more 
questions than it did. And I think verifying the information provided wouldve been 
proportionate in the circumstances.
I havent seen any evidence that HBOS questioned Mr M further about the information he 
provided, so I dont think its checks went far enough.What I think proportionate checks would have most likely shown
Mr M has provided further testimony to our service to demonstrate his financial position at 
the time of applying for the loan. Ive reviewed this information and I think it demonstrates   
Mr M wouldve struggled to repay the loan sustainably. Ill explain why.
Our investigator told HBOS that they didnt think it could rely on Mr Ms declared income of 
£3,000 when he applied for the loan, and that as Mr Ms salary was paid into an HBOS 
account, it showed his actual income was closer to £2,000. Therefore using HBOS own 
affordability calculation, this would only leave him with £116 disposable income.
HBOS said that the loan would still be affordable, taking Mr Ms actual income and 
suggested expenditure from his HBOS account statements. 
Overall, Im not persuaded by HBOS argument here. The figures it has used means Mr M 
would have been left with little to no disposable income to meet his remaining monthly 
commitments after the loan repayment had been made. In addition, Mr M has provided 
further testimony and evidence which shows his monthly living costs are higher than HBOS 
estimated. As HBOS didnt ask further questions about his expenditure, I dont find it 
reasonable that leaving Mr M with around £100 of disposable income each month shows he 
could sustainably repay the loan for the 79-month period.
HBOS has said Mr M kept up with the monthly repayments on the loan. In response, Mr M 
says he has requested and been granted payment holidays on the loan when available, in 
order to help manage his other commitments. And HBOS has also confirmed that on review, 
it is hard to say if Mr M is managing his finances as it doesnt have access to his other 
accounts and there are a number of transfers between accounts. I think on balance Mr Ms 
behaviour here is consistent with someone who may be struggling to repay in a sustainable 
way.
So from the evidence Ive seen Mr M didnt have sufficient disposable income to repay the 
loan. Whilst I acknowledge the loan was used to refinance an existing HBOS loan, I think 
had HBOS asked further questions it wouldve seen Mr M wasnt in a position to take on 
more borrowing. So it shouldnt have lent to him.
Ive considered HBOS arguments about what information Mr M may have provided had 
further questions been asked. And about the potential for him to borrow and be accepted for 
a lower loan amount. But my role is to consider what actually happened. And as Ive 
determined that proportionate checks wouldve most likely shown the loan was unaffordable, 
Im not persuaded that any of these arguments change my mind about what Ive seen.
HBOS doesnt think it should refund all of the interest and charges on Mr Ms loan as he had 
the benefit of paying off his previous loan. And if he didnt, then hed still be paying interest 
on it now. I accept Mr M has had benefit of the use of funds here. But my decision is that 
those same funds were irresponsibly lent. So whilst Mr M will still need to repay the capital of 
the loan and work with HBOS to do this, it doesnt follow that he should be caused further 
detriment by paying additional interest. Nor should HBOS benefit from a lending decision 
that I find it shouldnt have made in any event.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr M, Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must:
Refund all interest and charges it applied to the loan from the date it was approved 
on 13 October 2018 to the date Mr M tells our service that he accepts my final 
decision. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax may apply this refund to the 
outstanding loan balance;
Ensure no adverse information is reported to the credit agencies regarding the loan, 
up to the date Mr M tells our service that he accepts my final decision;
If this refund results in a credit to the account, Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must:
Refund any extra amount over and above what Mr M borrowed;
Add interest at 8% per year simple on this amount from the date the extra amounts 
were paid to the date of settlement;
HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to take off tax 
from this interest. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must give Mr M a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If there is a remaining balance on the loan, Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must 
explore all reasonable repayment options with Mr M based on his current financial situation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. And I require Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to put things right for him as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman