DRN-2805972
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain Guarantee Protection Insurance Limited (GPI) have unfairly declined 
their Building Warranty claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G have made a number of detailed points. I want to assure them Ive considered 
all of them but Im going to focus my decision on what I see as the central issues to this 
complaint. I dont intend this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our 
service and my role in it.
I also understand Mr and Mrs Gs have ongoing issues and concerns regarding the original 
installer. Im sorry to hear of the difficulties theyve explained they are having. But I am not 
able to consider these in my decision as it doesnt fall within this services remit or 
jurisdiction. My decision focuses on the actions of GPI, and whether it has acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining Mr and Mrs Gs claim.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
The policy says GPI wont be liable for any defect discovered or reported to the 
installer more than three months before the installer ceases trading. GPI has relied 
on this exclusion to decline Mr and Mrs Gs claim
The issues were first reported to the installer in July 2018  and a claim was initiated 
with GPI in March 2020. So, Im satisfied a period of more than three months applies 
here
Mr and Mrs G said they contacted GPI in December 2018 but were not told about the 
exclusion. Although it had been longer than three months by this point, Mr and Mrs G 
said had they been aware of the exclusion they would have pursued stronger 
alternative action against the installer
I do think GPI could have made Mr and Mrs G aware of the exclusion when they 
contacted it in December 2018, but as it had already been longer than three months 
since the issues had been raised with the developer, I dont think this would have 
affected the outcome of the claim
I also note the exclusions were included in the terms and conditions sent to 
Mr and Mrs G in July 2014. The letter is addressed to Mr and Mrs G, and the address 
is the same as the one Mr and Mrs G have provided this service, so Im satisfied 
Mr and Mrs G were provided this information before they contacted GP in December 
2018
So, while I understand Mr and Mrs Gs frustration, I dont think GPI have acted 
unfairly and I wont be interfering in its decision to decline the claim 
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman