DRN-1664609
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that Stagemount Limited (trading as Quidmarket) was irresponsible to lend 
to him.
What happened
Mr K applied for a £600 loan from Quidmarket on 5 August 2019. It was to be repaid with six 
monthly instalments of £186.12, with the final payment due on 24 January 2020.
Mr K says Quidmarket didnt carry out proper affordability checks and, had it done so, it 
would have seen he had existing credit commitments and a poor credit score.
Quidmarket says it asked Mr K for information about his income and outgoings and checked 
his credit file. It says it also verified his employment and adjusted his credit expenditure 
based on what it found in his credit file. Stagemount says its checks were proportionate and 
the repayments were affordable to Mr K based on its calculations.
However, Quidmarket says that the day after hed applied for the loan, Mr K emailed to say 
he needed to pay for treatment for his sick father. He sent amended income and expenditure 
figures and requested an interest-free repayment plan. Stagemount says it agreed to accept 
£20 per month for six months, and, by the end of September 2019 it had received £70.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found that 
Quidmarket had carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available 
information to indicate the lending was unsustainable.
Mr K responded to say, in summary, that he had two other short-term loans at the time, plus 
a £1,000 overdraft and a £700 balance on his credit card. He added that Quidmarket should 
have seen multiple searches on his credit file for other loans, which should also have flagged 
that he had been rejected by mainstream lenders.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make sure 
Mr K could afford to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr K was borrowing, and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks Quidmarket had to do.
Im satisfied Quidmarket did enough checks when it assessed Mr Ks loan application and 
there was nothing in the available information to indicate the repayments were unaffordable. 
I say that because:
This was Mr Ks first loan with Quidmarket and the repayments were a small 
proportion of the £2,350 income hed declared;
Although Quidmarket was entitled to rely on the information provided by Mr K at this 
stage of the lending relationship, it verified his income and employment by requesting 
a payslip;
Mr K also provided information about his expenditure. He said this totalled £1,150, 
including £100 on monthly credit commitments;
At this point Quidmarket calculated Mr Ks disposable income to be £1,200;
Quidmarket also carried out a credit check and identified Mr K actually had 
significantly more credit commitments than hed declared;
When Mr Ks disposable income was adjusted, he was left with £460 per month, 
which still made the £186 monthly repayments affordable to him.
I accept Mr K says he had other credit commitments at the time, but Im satisfied Quidmarket 
took into account all the available information before making its lending decision, including 
the loans and credit card to which Mr K refers.
I also acknowledge that Mr K says the credit searches should have indicated to Quidmarket 
that other lenders had declined applications from him. But, as a short-term lender, 
Quidmarket has its own criteria for lending, which are likely to be different from the 
mainstream lenders. So I cannot conclude it was wrong to approve Mr Ks loan application 
on that basis.
That said, I note there is an outstanding balance on Mr Ks account. I would encourage Mr K 
to speak to Quidmarket to request that it considers a fair and reasonable repayment plan.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman