DRN-3848009
The complaint
Mr H complains The Prudential Assurance Company Limited gave him unsuitable advice to 
pay Teachers Additional Voluntary Contributions (TAVCs) to his occupational pension 
scheme (OPS). He says that if it had told him about the alternative option of buying added 
years, hed have opted for those instead.
Mr H is represented by a claims management company, but for ease Ill refer only to Mr H.
What happened
In 1994 Mr H met with Prudential. He was in his mid-forties, employed as a teacher, and had 
been a member of his OPS since 1972. Following this meeting, he started paying TAVCs to 
increase his retirement benefits. In 2002, Mr H increased the amount of his TAVCs. And in 
2009, he retired and took his pension benefits.
In 2020 Mr H complained to Prudential that in 1994, it hadnt told him buying added years 
had been one of his options. And if it had, hed have chosen added years instead of TAVCs.
Prudential said Mr H had complained about this too late for our Service to consider it, as it 
was more than six years since he chose TAVCs and more than three years since he took the 
benefits which ought to have made him aware he had cause for complaint. Prudential also 
said it had explained Mr Hs options in 1994, including added years, but hed chosen TAVCs. 
And the time passed meant it no longer held Mr Hs documents from 1994.
Mr H remained unhappy and came to our Service. Prudential agreed to us considering 
Mr Hs complaint but still thought it hadnt done anything wrong. It also gave us a copy of the 
template application form that wouldve been completed and signed by Mr H. 
Two of our Investigators looked at this complaint and thought Prudential had made Mr H 
aware of the added years option. Mr H disagreed, saying the lack of original application form 
meant it wasnt possible to be reasonably sure what hed been told or whether Prudential 
had complied with the regulators instruction to revise the application form to make it clearer. 
Mr H pointed to separate complaints he thought to be similar to his, which he said our 
Service had upheld because the business couldnt provide the original application forms. 
Our Service again asked Prudential for any documentation it still had regarding Mr H. 
Prudential explained Mr Hs application paperwork was destroyed in line with data protection 
regulations, but ultimately was able to provide some information from its systems, including 
Mr Hs salary and TAVC contributions. 
Our Investigator changed his view and upheld Mr Hs complaint. He now thought there 
wasnt enough evidence to say Prudential had told Mr H about the added years option. And 
he thought that if it had done, Mr H would have chosen added years and not TAVCs. Our 
Investigator thought Prudential should put Mr H into the position hed be in now if Prudential 
had given him all the relevant information.
Prudential disagreed, and thought the template application form was enough to show it had 
told Mr H about added years. It pointed to a separate complaint in what it thought were 
similar circumstances, which we hadnt upheld. But the Investigator didnt change their view. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint came to me to consider. I contacted 
Mr H and Prudential to explain I wasnt upholding Mr Hs complaint. I said the limited 
information now available meant I wasnt satisfied Prudential had told Mr H added years 
were an alternative option and referred him to the Teachers Pension Scheme for further 
information. But I didnt think Mr H would have likely opted for added years if hed known 
about them, because I didnt think hed have considered added years the cost effective 
option or that added years matched what I could see of his attitude to risk at that time.
Prudential confirmed it had nothing to add. 
Mr H told us Prudential hadnt complied with the relevant rules and regulations and his 
complaint should be upheld. In summary, he said:
He didnt remember being given a scheme booklet at any time, and he was vaguely 
aware of added years but knew no details.
Prudential was wrong to destroy the original application and would be reprimanded by 
the regulator if it didnt keep pension transfer documents, suggesting Prudential 
destroyed the application form to cover up wrongdoing. 
A court wouldnt accept a template application form as reliable evidence. Our Service 
didnt seem to consider each case on its individual merits. And it wasnt appropriate for 
us to decide complaints based on the balance of probabilities, or to not uphold 
complaints in which original application forms had been destroyed. 
Prudentials adviser couldnt provide impartial advice, as telling Mr H about added years 
available elsewhere would risk their sales and commission.
Prudential hadnt ensured Mr H had the scheme booklet and knew about added years 
before he chose TAVCs, and hadnt allowed him enough time to research alternatives. 
Im now in a position to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by acknowledging that both Prudential and Mr H have sought to support their 
positions by referring to other separate complaints considered by our Service, in what they 
see to be similar circumstances. But, while Mr H may doubt it, it is the case that our Service 
considers the particular circumstances of each individual complaint. So Ive considered the 
particular circumstances of Mr Hs complaint and all the evidence and comments provided to 
me about that. Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). 
Unfortunately, the time passed since Mr H took the benefits of his TAVC means very little 
information from the time of the TAVC sale in 1994 is now available. Mr H suggests 
Prudential destroyed this information to cover up wrongdoing, but I think its more likely it 
was destroyed so that Prudential could meet its data protection obligations, as Prudential 
says  the regulator didnt require businesses to indefinitely keep TAVC records in the same 
way it required them to keep certain other records, as Mr H suggests. However, Prudential has been able to provide some limited information, including a template 
of the application form it says would have been completed, and information about Mr Hs 
salary and TAVC contributions. I understand Mr H doesnt agree our Service should decide 
complaints on the balance of probability, or not uphold complaints where original application 
forms have been destroyed. But nonetheless, where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I must reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
When Mr H joined the Teachers Pension Scheme in 1972, its likely either his employer or 
the scheme administrators provided him with a scheme booklet, which likely explained the 
various options available to Mr H for paying extra contributions to increase his pension 
provision, including the option of buying added years. I know Mr H says he doesnt 
remember being given a scheme booklet at any time, but this would have been about 50 
years ago and memories can fade over time. So I think its more likely than not that Mr H 
was given information about the added years option before he met with Prudential in 1994, 
even though I appreciate Mr H may not recall this.
Its still possible Mr H wasnt aware of added years before he met with Prudential. And 
Prudential now only holds limited paperwork from the time of the sale, so I cant fairly 
conclude it definitely told Mr H about the option of buying added years. I must note at this 
point that Prudential was only authorised to provide advice on Prudential products, so it 
couldnt have advised Mr H on the added years option or told him that added years would 
have been of benefit to him. All Prudential had to do was make Mr H aware that added years 
were an alternative option and refer him to the Teachers Pension Scheme for further 
information.
Mr H says he was vaguely aware of added years, and to my mind this supports Prudentials 
argument that it made him aware of the added years option. But with only very limited 
information, I cant be satisfied Prudential made him aware of it. So Ive thought about 
whether Mr H would most likely have opted for added years, rather than TAVCs, if hed 
known about them. And having done so, I cant fairly say Mr H would have chosen added 
years in 1994. Ill explain why.
Firstly, the cost of added years of service in the Teachers Pension Scheme was determined 
by the Government Actuary using conservative assumptions of likely future investment 
experience, which made them more expensive than if a less conservative (or more 
optimistic) set of assumptions had been used. And I think its very likely that at the time, it 
wouldve been shown that the projected benefits from the TAVC would be greater than the 
benefits provided by purchasing the three years of added service Mr H would have needed. 
So its difficult to conclude that Mr H would have considered added years the cost effective 
option.
Secondly, Ive thought about Mr Hs attitude to risk at that time. As I say, the information 
available is now very limited. However, I accept that the template application form provided 
by Prudential is likely to contain the same information and questions as the application form 
that would have been completed by Mr H, or at least signed by him to declare he understood 
the information it contained and he agreed with the answers given. I realise Mr H says a 
court wouldnt accept a template application form. But our Service is an alternative to the 
courts, and as I say, where the evidence is incomplete then I must make my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities.
And the template application form shows Mr H had the choice of investing his TAVC into a 
range of funds, including the no risk option of a deposit fund. So Mr H could have chosen to 
invest his TAVC in a no risk fund. But its my understanding that it was instead invested in Prudentials with-profits fund which, while generally considered lower risk, still had an 
element of risk. So I dont think Mr H was risk averse. And added years would generally 
have been considered suitable for someone that was risk adverse. So its difficult to 
conclude that added years matched what I can see of Mr Hs attitude to risk at that time.
So even if Prudential had provided Mr H with clear information about the added years option, 
I dont think Mr H would have chosen added years instead of the TAVC. Therefore, Im not 
upholding this complaint or asking Prudential to do anything further here.
I know Mr H says Prudential didnt ensure he had the scheme booklet and knew about 
added years before he chose TAVCs, and didnt allow him enough time to research 
alternatives. Mr H also suggests Prudential might not have complied with the regulators 
instruction to change the application form to make it clearer. But I dont need to consider 
these points because as Ive already said, the limited information means I cant be satisfied 
Prudential made Mr H aware of the added years option. 
Mr H also suggests Prudential didnt tell him about added years because the adviser would 
get commission from TAVC sales. As with many other financial products, the advisers 
wouldve got commission through the sales. But, as Prudentials advice appeared not to be 
unsuitable or inappropriate, I cant fairly conclude Mr H was mis-sold the TAVC simply 
because Prudentials adviser received commission.
So while I realise this will be disappointing to Mr H, Im not asking Prudential to take any 
action here.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not asking The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to 
do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman