DRN-3603411
The complaint
Mr T complains that Starling Bank Limited blocked and closed his account. It returned some 
funds back to source and delayed returning other funds to Mr T. He also received wrong 
information from Starling, and they were late with documents he requested. Starling 
registered his details with CIFAS the UKs fraud alert service. He wants the funds refunded 
and the CIFAS marker removed.
What happened
Mr T had an account with Starling.
On 13 October 2021 Mr T received a number of payments into his account which totalled 
£34,900.
The sender of the money who I will refer to as X raised a dispute with his bank. As a result, 
Starling restricted Mr Ts account.
Starling asked Mr T for proof of entitlement of funds on 21 October 2021. 
Mr T provided some text messages between himself and X as well as an Uber receipt to 
evidence he was at the location.
Mr T was told that he could have access to his account on 28 October 2021. Starling later 
said they had given Mr T the wrong information and his account was still under review and 
therefore he couldnt access the funds in the account.
The money was sent back to X, on 16 December 2021. Mr T is unhappy this money was 
returned to X as he says it was a legitimate payment. 
The balance in the account totalling £20,500 was returned to Mr T on 6 January 2022 by 
cheque.
Mr Ts account was closed with immediate effect on 6 January 2022.
Mr T made a data subject access request (DSAR) on 11 January 2022. He has told us 
Starling didnt comply with the time frames and were late in sending him the information.  
Starling accepted they were delays in responding to his DSAR and offered £100 in 
compensation for the delay in sending the correspondence and the statements.
On 12 February 2022 Starling registered Mr T with CIFAS. Mr T is unhappy he wasnt 
notified of this. He also thinks the marker is unfair because he says he was entitled to the 
payment as they were genuine transactions.
Mr T has told us that Starlings actions have caused him a great deal of stress and his 
mental health has suffered as a result.
Mr T has also told us that Starling failed to keep him informed and clarify matters to him 
even when he had asked. He wasnt happy that they had prevented a friend making a 
payment to him and had also questioned his immigration Visa status.
Mr T complained to our service one of the investigators looked into the complaint. He 
partially upheld it. He said:
Starling were entitled to review the account and block the account pending their 
review. 
Starling were entitled to close the account in line with the terms and conditions.
Starling werent justified in loading Mr T to CIFAS and asked Starling to remove the 
marker. He awarded Mr T £250 for the inconvenience this caused.
Starling had done nothing wrong when they returned the funds to source as Mr T 
hadnt been able to satisfy Starling that he was entitled to the funds. 
Starling had delayed providing Mr T with the DSAR documents and £100 was 
reasonable compensation.
He couldnt comment on Mr Ts allegation that Starling had prevented his friend from 
making a payment to Mr T.
Starling could legitimately ask Mr T about his Visa status as banks need to keep up 
to date information on its customers.
Although he accepted that Starling may have delayed in communicating with Mr T or 
given him wrong information. He didnt think this had a significant impact on the 
outcome of their investigation and whether they returned funds to source. 
Both Mr T and Starling were unhappy with the view.
Starling disagreed that the CIFAS marker should be removed. Mr T disagreed that Starling 
did nothing wrong when they returned funds to B.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has made a number of quite detailed submissions. Ive considered all of these, but I 
dont consider its necessary to address each and every point that Mr T has made in order to 
meet my statutory duty to determine his complaint. Im required to do that with minimum 
formality, and so Ill address the issues that I consider to be the most important. I do stress 
however that Ive considered everything that Mr T and the bank have said before reaching 
my decision. 
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
information about other customers or security information. Some of the information Starling 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential, so I wont be 
sharing this with Mr T.Review, block and closure of the account.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ts account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Starling were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Ts account. 
Starling was informed on 13 October 2021 that Mr T might not be entitled to funds received 
into his account. I would expect Starling to act in the way they did by reviewing and blocking 
the account, so I dont think they have acted unfairly here.
I can see that in blocking the account the bank was following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Starling was unfair. 
Mr Ts account was closed with immediate effect on 6 January 2022.
Ive considered whether Starling acted fairly in closing Mr Ts account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Starling closed Mr Ts 
account without notice. For Starling to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to 
apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the 
evidence, Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close 
the accounts as its already done. 
Returning funds to source
Mr T is very unhappy that £34,900 was returned to source.
Mr T has said the services agreed to between himself and X were delivered by him. Mr T 
has provided text messages to evidence X had agreed to transfer the funds voluntarily to 
Mr T. Mr T has also said X transferred him the money on 13 October 2021 because he was 
trying to impress Mr T.
I have looked at the information Mr T has provided as well as the submissions he has put 
forward. Mr T has mentioned his contract with X was an oral contract, but it was still an 
agreement that is legally binding. I am aware oral contracts can be binding on both parties. 
Unfortunately, Mr T cannot provide sufficient evidence to show a legally binding contract 
existed between him and X and that X is in breach of that contract by withholding payment. I 
am not able to conclude from the evidence provided to me Mr T is entitled to the money 
which was transferred from Xs account. In order for me to direct Starling to refund these 
funds to Mr T I would need to be satisfied the funds are Mr Ts and Im not able to conclude 
that on the evidence before me. 
Returning remaining funds to Mr T
Mr T had to wait until 6 January 2021 to have his funds returned to him.  I have therefore 
looked to see if Starling caused a delay. Having looked at the evidence Im satisfied that they 
didnt. And although I appreciate how frustrating this was for Mr T I wont be asking Starling 
to do anything here.CIFAS
On 12 February 2022 Starling registered a CIFAS marker against Mr T.
Mr T has told us he is unhappy that the marker was registered, and he thinks he should have 
been given notice of this. As the investigator has explained Starling are not under an 
obligation to give Mr T notice of their intention to register a CIFAS marker.
The investigator has set out in the view the grounds that must be met for a CIFAS marker to 
be registered correctly and I dont plan to set these out here again.
I have reviewed the evidence provided by Starling to conclude that the funds were fraudulent 
and that Mr T in this case was deliberately dishonest. I am not satisfied the evidence 
provided is clear and rigorous enough to warrant a CIFAS marker. I also dont think its clear 
in the circumstances whether Mr T committed a financial crime. His story that there was a 
legitimate arrangement between Mr T and X is plausible, and he has provided text 
messages that support this. 
It follows I dont think Starling have discharged the burden to register a marker against Mr T 
and I will be asking them to remove it. The investigator awarded £250 in compensation for 
the distress caused to Mr T. I agree this is in line with our awards in these circumstances 
and I dont see any reason for changing it.
DSAR 
Mr T made a DSAR to Starling. There was a delay in providing Mr T with the documents he 
requested. Starling have agreed to pay Mr T £100 in compensation for this delay and I am 
satisfied that this is a reasonable amount, so I wont be asking them to pay any more.
Service issues
Mr T has said that Starling have questioned his Visa status, not replied to Mr T and his 
solicitors requests and have given him incorrect information regarding the block on his 
account. 
Mr T has also mentioned that Starling prevented his friend from paying money into his 
account. As the investigator mentioned this is a complaint that could be brought by his friend 
to our service but isnt something that I can comment on as part of this decision as the 
complainant isnt Mr T. 
Starling are obliged to hold up to date information about their customers, so I dont think they 
were acting unfairly when they requested information about Mr Ts Visa status.
Mr T has raised various issues regarding communications with Starling. I know Mr T was 
particularly concerned that Starling had made a decision to unblock his account and allow 
him access to his funds and then a day later changed their mind. I have looked at the 
evidence and Im satisfied that Starling hadnt concluded their review at that stage, and they 
merely gave mistaken information when they told Mr T he would have access to his funds. 
The mistake was corrected quickly so I cant see that it adversely impacted Mr T.
Mr T has told us his mental health has suffered as a result of this complaint. So, I have gone 
on to consider the impact that Starlings actions had on Mr T. 
I appreciate that over the course of this period Mr T has been unhappy and stressed with the 
situation and Starlings shortcomings in relation to how and when it has communicated with him. However, when looking at this as a whole I think Mr T was caused the normal type of 
stress that results from an account being reviewed, blocked and closed. I agree that Starling 
could have done better. I know Mr T was concerned about the CIFAS marker, but I think the 
main issue that has adversely affected Mr T is the loss of £34,900 that he is adamant 
belongs to him. I have already said it isnt possible for me to conclude on the balance of 
probability that Mr T was entitled to these funds so I cant ask Starling to return these to him 
or compensate him for depriving him of the funds or the stress he has suffered as a result of 
the loss of the funds.
Putting things right
In summary I appreciate Mr T will be disappointed with my decision but for the reasons 
mentioned above I partially uphold the complaint. Starling should remove the CIFAS marker 
and pay Mr T compensation of £250. They should also pay compensation of £100 for the 
delay in providing Mr T with the DSAR documents.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Starling Bank 
Limited to:
Remove the CIFAS marker and pay Mr T compensation of £250.
Pay Mr T £100 compensation for the delay in providing the DSAR documents.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman