DRN-3568131
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way his account had been handled by NewDay Ltd, and the tone 
and content of information hes received from NewDay after a subject access request (SAR).
What happened
Mr A has had a credit card account with NewDay for several years. In October 2013,
NewDay issued a default notice and later sold the account to a debt collector. Mr A
complained about that at the time and explained hed missed payments as a result of some
difficult personal and health circumstances. NewDay recovered the account from the debt
collector and Mr A continued to use it.
In July 2021, Mr A noticed his card had expired a few months earlier and he hadnt received
a new one. He contacted NewDay and was told a new card hadnt been sent as hed not
used the account for some time. It arranged to send him a new one and he was able to
continue using the account. Shortly afterwards however, he received a letter from NewDay
saying it had closed his account and hed be unable to make any further purchases.
Mr A submitted a request to NewDay for all the information it held about him. NewDay
initially just sent him all his statements and then later, after further contact from Mr A, it
provided all the information it is obliged to do under a SAR. The information provided
included several internal emails which Mr A is unhappy with. He says the they demonstrate
that NewDay kept information from him and showed no respect. He feels the closure of his
account means hes been penalised but has done nothing wrong.
NewDay looked into Mr As complaint. It said Mr A shouldnt have had a new card sent to
him. It explained that when it bought the account back from the debt collector, he shouldnt
have been able to use it other than to repay the balance on an interest free basis. But it
made errors which enabled him to use the card without paying interest or charges. The
problems were only identified when it reviewed the situation in the light of its investigation
into why Mr A hadnt received a new card. It decided to close the account for new
purchases, but also left the account as free of interest and charges. NewDay offered to pay
Mr A £150 for the inconvenience caused to him.
NewDay considered Mr As comments about the information hed received under his SAR.
There were some emails exchanged internally about what to do with Mr As account once
the errors had been identified. NewDay subsequently offered Mr A £100 for the upset this
aspect of the complaint caused him. So in total, NewDay had offered Mr A £250 for the
issues covered by this complaint at this stage.
As Mr A was unhappy with NewDays response he asked one of our investigators to look
into it. Our investigator felt that NewDay hadnt treated Mr A fairly or considered the impact
the withdrawal of the card had had on him. After some mediation attempts, he ultimately
recommended NewDay should pay Mr A £750 in compensation for the trouble and upset
hed endured.
NewDay didnt accept what our investigator said, so as there was no agreement, the
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Mr As complaint should be upheld, but I 
dont agree with the level of redress he proposed. I issued a provisional decision saying:
This complaint stems in part at least, from 2013/2014 when Mr A exceeded his credit limit
and fell behind on payments. This led to NewDay issuing a default notice and moving his
account on to a debt collection company in April 2014. As a result of a complaint from Mr A,
NewDay agreed to recall the account from the debt collectors and offered compensation. It
gave Mr A the option to refer that complaint to us within six months (as required by our rules)
but Mr A didnt, so I assume he was content with that at the time. Hes now out of time under
our rules to refer that aspect of the complaint to us, but Ive mentioned it because it provides
useful background to my findings.
NewDay has said that when it recalled the account, it was not its intention that Mr A would
be able to use it. The reason for this is that when a lender defaults an account, the credit
agreement is terminated which crystalises the position for both the lender and the borrower.
Generally this means the account can no longer be used, no further interest and charges
accrue and any payments received from the borrower go directly to reducing the balance. At
this stage, accounts are usually marked as defaulted for six years with the credit reference
agencies, which can make it much more difficult for consumers to obtain credit elsewhere.
When it recalled the account, NewDay also removed the default from Mr As credit file. It had
intended to enable Mr A to repay the debt ensuring his credit file wasnt affected. Its evident
that this wasnt properly explained to Mr A and NewDay allowed him to continue to use the
account as it failed to place the relevant markers on it.
There is no dispute that NewDay has made mistakes in its handling of Mr As account. Our
usual approach where mistakes have been made, is to try to put the consumer in the
position they would have been in had the mistakes not been made.
If NewDay hadnt made the mistakes it did when it recalled the account, Mr A wouldnt have
been able to use it. Any repayments hed made would have reduced the balance. But
mistakes were made which had the effect of allowing Mr A to continue to spend on the card.
The mistakes werent identified until Mr A stopped spending and the account fell into
NewDays dormancy process meaning a new card wasnt issued on expiry of the old one.
If the mistakes hadnt been made, Mr A would have had to fund his spending another way.
Given hes said he relied on using the card for certain purchases, its likely hed have used
some other form of credit to fund those. Its more likely than not that such credit will have  
attracted interest. So in that regard, Mr A is better off as a result of the mistakes made by 
NewDay as he hasnt been charged any interest since 2014. Therefore, I can see no
financial loss or detriment to Mr A as a result of the mistakes made. 
But I can see that having the card withdrawn unexpectedly after so long, will have caused
Mr A some distress and inconvenience. He only became aware his card had expired when
he needed to use it and the account was withdrawn very soon after a new card was issued.
So I think its right that Mr A is compensated for this and note that NewDay has paid Mr A
£150. Ive thought carefully about this and I dont think thats sufficient in the circumstances. Ithink the fact that hed had seven years of apparently problem free use of the account will
have heightened the distress and inconvenience. Ill return to this later on.
Ive looked carefully at the internal emails Mr A has seen and which have caused him
distress. Ive seen no comments suggesting any wrongdoing by Mr A or that he was at fault
in any of this. I think the emails were aimed at working out the best way forward. But they do
say that NewDay didnt want Mr A to find out that his account was interest free, wasnt
reporting to the credit reference agencies and wouldnt fall into its collection process. I think,
from a commercial point of view, its understandable that NewDay wouldnt have wanted
Mr A to know this as it may make it harder to receive its money back. Nothing Ive read
however, suggests Mr A has done anything wrong  in fact, it acknowledges that it has made
mistakes and needs to put them right.
NewDay has accepted that the emails have upset Mr A and initially offered £100 for this. The
communications were never intended to be seen by him and dont suggest that Mr A has
done anything wrong. But I do think NewDay should have been aware that Mr A could see
what it had written (such as through a SAR) so could have taken more care not to cause any
upset to him. On that basis, I think the offer its made in this regard is fair and reasonable in
the circumstances.
Mr A says he feels hes been penalised but has done nothing wrong. I agree with him that
hes done nothing wrong. But NewDay made a mistake in continuing to allow him to use the
account for so long and its not unreasonable for it to correct its error. I dont think it was
wrong for it to close the account once its mistakes came to light.
Putting things right
Ive explained above that I think having his card withdrawn unexpectedly after seven years
will have caused Mr A distress, and I think the internal emails compounded that. But I also
bear in mind that hes not paid any interest on purchases he made with the card since 2014
and the account will remain on an interest free basis until its repaid. If the mistakes hadnt
been made, he would have had to pay interest on the money hes spent on the account
since, albeit to a different credit provider.
NewDay credited Mr As account with £150 to compensate for the errors made by allowing
him to continue to use the account. When it sent us its file for his complaint, NewDay offered
£100 compensation  later increased to £200 following our involvement - for the upset
caused to him by the internal communications. So Mr As been offered a total of £350 so far
for this complaint as a whole.
Our investigator felt a total of £750 compensation was reasonable for all the issues raised in
this complaint, but I think thats too high. But I dont think the existing offer of £350 goes far
enough to recognise the upset caused to Mr A by the issues complained about.
In the circumstances, Im minded to instruct NewDay to pay Mr A a total of £500 including
what it has already paid, for the issues covered in this complaint.
NewDay accepted my provisional decision, but Mr A didnt. 
Mr A says (in summary):
I didnt cover all aspects of the complaint in my provisional decision.
He doesnt agree with the level of compensation I recommended. He says that the 
£150 Ive referred to was awarded by NewDay for not sending the new card rather 
than its error in allowing him to continue to use the account. He doesnt agree the £200 Ive referred to was offered by NewDay  he says it was 
given by our investigator. 
He wasnt awarded £350 and it was wrong for me to include that in my final figure of 
£500. 
He acknowledged hes not paid any interest but says this would have been very 
little.
Ive considered what Mr A has said, but it doesnt change my view of his complaint. I say this 
because:
As I said in my provisional decision, Ive considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive 
read and considered the whole file, but Ive concentrated my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it 
into consideration, but because I dont need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
a fair outcome.
Mr A is correct to say the £150 was awarded when he complained to NewDay that it failed to 
issue a new card on expiry of his existing one (Ive said this in my provisional decision).  But 
NewDay made a mistake by issuing the new card as this allowed him to continue to use the 
account which it shouldnt have done. So I dont agree with Mr A that it shouldnt be included 
as part of the redress for the mistakes NewDay made which allowed him to continue to use 
the account.
When our investigator first looked into Mr As complaint, he recommended that NewDay 
should pay Mr A £200 in compensation. NewDay agreed, so it was offered to Mr A, but he 
rejected it. I dont agree with Mr A that NewDay didnt make an offer of £200  it did, albeit at 
the recommendation of our investigator.
So, the £200 offer, when added to the £150 already paid, comes to £350. While I accept it 
wasnt awarded to Mr A as he says, the offer of a total of £350 was available for him to 
accept if he wished. In any event, he didnt accept it, so the complaint was passed to me.
My role as ombudsman is to decide what I feel is a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr As 
complaint. Where mistakes have been made by a business, where possible I aim to put the 
consumer in the position they would have been in had the mistake not happened. To do so, 
as Ive mentioned, Ive carefully reviewed the available evidence and thought about the 
circumstances. Ive considered the financial impact on Mr A as well as what hes told us 
about the trouble and upset the mistakes caused him.
When considering the financial impact on Mr A, Ive taken into account the fact that hes paid 
no interest which he would have had to do had he borrowed elsewhere. Ive explained how I 
came to that conclusion above. Mr A says he feels any interest will have been very little.
Statements provided by Mr A dated between 2014 and 2021, show his balance varying 
between around £750 and £1,100. Interest on this type of account is typically charged in 
excess of 30% per year. Had NewDay been charging interest on the account, its likely hed 
have paid in excess of £300 per year each year.
If hed borrowed elsewhere rather than with NewDay, he may well have found a less 
expensive card. Nonetheless, hes likely to have incurred interest of several hundred pounds 
over the seven years hes had the balance outstanding. So I dont agree with Mr A that 
interest will have been very little as hes said. Had NewDay not made the mistakes it did, 
its likely hed be worse off as a result of having had to pay interest over the years.Given the above, Mr A has benefitted in part from NewDays mistakes. But I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable to ask Mr A to repay interest that he probably would have been 
charged. After all, we dont know precisely what that would have been, and he didnt do 
anything wrong by using the card - NewDay allowed him to do so.
But I do think it will have come as a shock to Mr A to have a facility withdrawn that hed been 
able to use trouble free for seven years, so its right that NewDay compensate him for that. I 
think a total payment of £500 is appropriate in the circumstances but note it has already paid 
£150.
My final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd should pay Mr A a total of £500 including what it has 
already paid for the issues covered in this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman