DRN-3073196
The complaint
Miss W complains that TSB Bank plc provided her with poor service on several occasions 
when she was trying to close an account.
What happened
Miss W had held a joint account with her Grandmother who sadly passed away. The account 
was transferred into Miss Ws name and she needed to close it to distribute the funds to 
family in line with her Grandmothers wishes. 
Miss W said she spent over seven hours on calls to TSB trying to deal with the closure of the 
account. She says she was given conflicting information about the account closure and had 
to keep chasing for information about her funds. This caused her stress and embarrassment 
as she needed to get the money to distribute to other parties in line with her Grandmothers 
will. Miss W says the cheque for £50 wasnt enough given the number of errors TSB made 
and the upset and inconvenience she was caused.
TSB issued a final response letter dated 8 January 2021. It explained that the request made 
on 16 November wasnt completed and it apologised for this. It confirmed the account was 
closed on 4 December and said that due to the type of account Miss W had a transfer 
couldnt be made and a cheque was issued. It said that Miss W had confirmed when she 
raised the complaint that she hadnt suffered any financial loss due to the issues and it said 
the £50 compensation issued was reasonable.
Our investigator thought that TSB had done enough in response to Miss Ws complaint. She 
said it had acknowledged its mistakes and she thought the compensation paid was 
reasonable.
Miss W didnt agree with our investigators view. She reiterated that TSB had made several 
errors including giving incorrect information on the telephone calls about being able to close 
the account, about how the funds would be transferred and when the cheque would be sent. 
She said that she wasnt sent a closing statement after being told it would be sent and then 
received two letters providing compensation, one of which was sent in error. She says she 
then didnt receive call backs when they had been offered. Miss W says that the multiple 
issues left her exhausted, embarrassed and distressed. She thought fair compensation for 
the issues was an amount that TSB would have charged her had she not paid it money she 
owed, which she calculated as being £211.79 - although she said that given the length of 
time the issue had been ongoing she didnt now think this was enough.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W has provided a detailed explanation and time line of the issues she experienced 
when she tried to close her account. My role isnt to punish the business but where mistakes 
have been made to put the consumer back in the position they would have been had the 
mistakes not happened and, where appropriate, award compensation. 
It is clear that Miss W wasnt provided with the service she should have been. TSB 
apologised in its final response letter that Miss Ws account closure form wasnt processed 
correctly and acknowledged the time Miss W had spent on telephone calls. Miss Ws 
account was closed on 4 December and the funds sent to her by cheque. Therefore, the 
underlying issue regarding the account closure and payment of funds was resolved. The 
outstanding issue is whether the cheque issued for £50 is enough compensation given the 
inconvenience and upset Miss W experienced.
Miss W has explained that she spent over seven hours on calls trying to the resolve the 
issues and while I havent heard the call recordings, I accept her testimony about the 
conflicting information she was given. This was upsetting for Miss W as she needed the 
money from the account to distribute to other family members. Given the mistakes that were 
made I agree that compensation should be paid. Although there was a delay in Miss W 
receiving the money from the account she has said she didnt suffer a financial loss. The 
amount she has calculated is based on what she believes she would have needed to pay 
TSB if she was late paying it funds to the same value.
While I understand how Miss W has calculated the amount she feels she should be paid, 
and I note her comments that she now thinks this isnt enough given further delays, I do not 
find the £50 cheque issued by TSB unreasonable. I say this because the underlying issue 
regarding the account closure was actioned following the identification of the mistakes that 
had been made. TSB acknowledged its mistakes and issued a cheque to compensate for 
this. As no financial loss was caused, in this case I think the £50 cheque provided by TSB is 
reasonable.  
My final decision
My final decision is that the £50 compensation cheque issued to Miss W is reasonable 
compensation for this complaint. Therefore, I do not require TSB Bank plc to do anything 
further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman