DRN-3981176
The complaint
Ms B and Mr W are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) wont refund money 
they lost after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2021, Ms B and Mr W were interested in cryptocurrency trading. They searched online 
and found a company who Ill refer to as G. Ms B and Mr W say G had a professional 
website that was well presented, so they completed an enquiry form and provided their 
contact information. They say Gs website said they were linked to a large London based 
company.
Ms B and Mr W were contacted by an individual who said they worked for G and gave what 
they felt was a professional explanation of the investment opportunities they could offer. As 
they were interested in investing with them, they looked G up on a review website and say 
they found mostly positive reviews. They also say G was positively featured in online trade 
publications.
The representative from G said they would trade for Ms B and Mr W, but also educate them 
in how to trade so that within six months they could be trading on their own. A trading 
account was set up in Mr Ws name as it was Mr W who planned to do the trading. The 
representative told Mr W that the account would be changed on a monthly basis for security 
purposes and not to be alarmed when it happened. 
Mr W says the representative told him he could make a 40% return and explained how they 
could achieve that. Mr W says he found this return believable, as Bitcoin was doing well 
according to national press articles at the time.
Mr W made an initial payment from the joint account he held with Ms B on 13 April 2021 for 
£4,999  which Mr W could see go into his trading account. The representative started 
making trades on Mr Ws behalf, initially only risking 10% of his account balance. Mr W 
watched his trading account balance increase.
The representative talked to Mr W about different packages G offered  silver, gold and 
platinum. They told Mr W that the more he invested, the better his trading conditions would 
be. The representative topped up Mr Ws trading account with £45,000 to get him to silver 
level, which the representative said would come with one on one training and insurance.
Mr W says he received daily contact from the representative and was convinced to increase 
his trading account balance by sending further payments. As a result, Mr W made five 
payments from his joint account in April 2021. These payments were made via a 
cryptocurrency wallet held in Mr Ws name, with the funds sent on from the cryptocurrency 
wallet to G. Following these payments, Mr W was introduced to a new staff member at G  
an account manager. The account manager told Mr W they were at a higher level within G 
than his previous representative and that they only completed day trades.
In May 2021, Mr W was persuaded to send more money to his trading account, via his 
crypto currency wallet, so his trading account would move to signature level. At this point   
Mr W had invested £75,000 and says his trading account balance was showing as 
approximately £500,000. Mr W says that the account manager was still making trades on his 
behalf, but he had also started making his own trades.
In June and July 2021, Mr W was persuaded to invest more money so that his trading 
account advanced to higher levels. After doing so, the account manager made an extremely 
large trade whereby the balance grew before dropping by £90,000. Mr W says he thought 
his account would be closed, but when it wasnt he felt this added legitimacy to the 
investment.
Mr W was contacted again by the account manager who suggested he take out further 
insurance to protect his money and to reduce his risk. To enable this, the account manager 
loaned Mr W £170,000 so his trading account moved to premier level and got the best 
protection against trade losses.
In August 2021, Mr W was told a big movement was due to happen in the market which he 
should take advantage of, and he was persuaded to send a further payment on 1 September 
2021.
Shortly after this, Mr W was told that the insurance company wouldnt insure his trading 
account because there was an outstanding credit owed. The account manager then made a 
further large trade that, despite initially making money, resulted in a large loss. At this point 
Mr W became concerned and tried to withdrawal the balance of his trading account. But the 
account manager stopped responding to Mr W and closed his trading account, meaning     
Mr W could only see the trades and not take any action on his account. 
By the end of September 2021, Mr W realised he has been the victim of a scam. He reported 
it to Action Fraud and Barclays in early October 2021. 
This is a list of the payments that Mr W made from his joint account as part of the scam.
Date Transaction detail Amount
13.4.2021 Payment to R £4,999
23.4.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £1,000.03
26.4.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £4,000.02
28.4.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £5,000
29.4.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £5,000
29.4.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £5,000
4.5.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £10,000
5.5.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £5,000
5.5.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £10,000
2.6.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £5,013
2.6.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £9,987
3.6.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £4,998
4.6.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £4,999
7.6.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £3.00
19.7.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £4,000
19.7.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £4,000
19.7.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £4,000
27.7.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £2,000
27.7.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £4,000
1.9.2021 Payment to cryptocurrency wallet in Mr Ws name £9,999.98Total Ms B and Mr W lost to the scam £102,999.03
Barclays contacted the beneficiary banks within minutes of Mr W reporting the scam to them 
but were unable to recover any of the money. They investigated Ms B and Mr Ws fraud 
claim and refunded them 50% of their loss, being £51,499.52. They also paid interest on that 
refund at 8% simple. Barclays declined to refund the remaining loss saying Ms B and Mr W 
didnt do enough checks before investing.
Ms B and Mr W werent happy with Barclays response, so they brought a complaint to this 
service.
An investigator considered their complaint but didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
recommend that Barclays refund any further money, saying Ms B and Mr W didnt take 
reasonable steps to verify the authenticity of the investment or the company. They 
highlighted that the rate of return Ms B and Mr W were promised shouldve been of concern 
and that they didnt check the suggestion that G was linked to a larger trading company. The 
investigator felt it was fair for Ms B and Mr W to equally share responsibility for their loss with 
Barclays.
Ms B and Mr W didnt agree with the investigators opinion, saying they didnt have 
investment experience and felt theyd done sufficient checks before investing. They 
suggested that it would be fairer if Barclays refunded 75% of their loss. 
As the case couldnt be resolved it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays have already accepted that they couldve done more to identify that Ms B and Mr W 
were the victims of a scam and to have helped prevent their losses. On that basis, Barclays 
have refunded 50% of the amount they lost and have paid 8% simple interest on that refund. 
However, Barclays have declined to refund the remaining 50%, saying Ms B and Mr W didnt 
do sufficient checks before making the payments to verify that the company they were 
dealing with was legitimate and the investment was genuine.
Based on what Ive seen, Barclays have already refunded more than I wouldve 
recommended so Im not going to ask them to refund anything further. Ill explain why.
The first payment
The first payment that Ms B and Mr W made as part of the scam went to an account that 
wasnt held in their name, therefore its covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code). The CRM Code requires Barclays to refund customers whove fallen victim 
to an APP scam like this one, in all but a limited number of circumstances. In this case, 
Barclays say theyre only liable to refund 50% as Ms B and Mr W made the first payment 
without having a reasonable basis for believing the investment company or the investment 
were genuine  which is an exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code.
Having reviewed all the information, I agree with Barclays that they can rely on this 
exception. This means Barclays has already refunded the amount I wouldve asked them to 
refund under the CRM Code in relation to the first payment.From payment 2 onwards
All of the payments Ms B and Mr W made after the first one arent covered by the CRM 
Code. But, Barclays still had an obligation with those payments to be on the lookout for, and 
to protect Ms B and Mr W, from potentially falling victim to fraud or a scam. This includes 
monitoring their account and identifying suspicious activity that appeared out of character. 
Having reviewed Ms B and Mr Ws previous account use I can see that only days before 
they made the first payment as part of this scam, theyd made three bill payments from their 
account for £9,000 each. This meant that within one day theyd transferred nearly £20,000 
out of their account. 
Based on that account activity, Im not satisfied that the first few payments shouldve been 
identified by Barclays as particularly concerning or potential signs Ms B and Mr W may have 
fallen victim to a scam. I wouldnt have expected Barclays to have had concerns until after 
Ms B and Mr W had made the payment of £10,000 on 5 May 2021. I say this because at that 
point a pattern was emerging of Ms B and Mr W making a series of large payments out of 
their account. So, I wouldnt have expected Barclays to intervene and call Ms B and Mr W 
about the payments until then. This means I wouldnt have asked Barclays to make a refund 
on the payments made between 23 April and 6 May 2021.
I think that once Barclays had identified a concern after the last payment in May 2021, had 
they called they wouldve uncovered the scam and prevented any further payments being 
made. On that basis I wouldve recommended that Barclays refund all of the payments made 
from 2 June onwards, which couldve been prevented. However, I would also need to take 
into account whether Ms B and Mr W shouldve done anything to mitigate their loss.
Ms B and Mr W have given us an email dated 1 June 2021. In the email Mr W tells the 
account manager at G that he cant find a registered company called G located in Austria 
and asks for their registration number or their corporation details. He also asks who their 
CEO is and tells the account manager, I really really really want this to be legit.
The scammer responds to Mr W and says, we keep going over it on a weekly basis. You 
keep implying SCAM after the service you received from us, and that needs to stop.. 
Its clear that at this point Mr W had serious concerns about whether G was a legitimate 
investment company, and potentially had similar concerns some weeks prior based on what 
the scammer said in their email to him. While Mr W has told us that prior to investing he 
searched for G online and saw mostly positive reviews on a trusted review website, and 
positive reviews in trading publications. He didnt do any real checks into the company to 
ensure its legitimacy. He says they suggested they were a subsidiary of a larger trading 
company, but I cant see that he checked this. Also, a reputable company wouldnt give an 
investor £45,000 to trade with.
Overall, I think there were a number of red flags and warning signs that the investment 
company may not be genuine, and Im not satisfied that Mr W did sufficient checks before 
making his first payment based on these red flags. More importantly, by the time he made 
the payments in June 2021, the point at which I think Barclays shouldve intervened, its 
clear that he had serious doubts about the company but continued investing anyway. These 
are the same reasons I agree with Barclays that they can rely on the exception to full 
reimbursement under the CRM Code for the first payment 
Having carefully considered everything, Im not satisfied that Ms B and Mr W took 
reasonable steps to mitigate their losses based on their own concerns about the legitimacy 
of the investment company. And, on that basis, I think its fair for them to share the liability 
for their losses with Barclays 50/50. This means I wouldve only asked Barclays to refund 50% of the first payment, along with 
50% of the payments made from 2 June 2021 onwards. As a result, the refund that Barclays 
has made of 50% on all the payments, is more than I wouldve recommended. Also, the 
interest that Barclays paid on the refund at 8% simple, is the same as I wouldve awarded. 
I realise that Ms B and Mr W are going to very disappointed as theyve lost a lot of money 
due to this scam, but I cant fairly ask Barclays to refund them anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman