The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have unfairly declined 
their claim following a burglary at their home. They are also unhappy with the service 
provided.
Mr and Mrs L are joint policyholders, but for ease of reading Ill mostly only refer to Mr L. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief summary of the key events here. Mr and Mrs L were unfortunately victims of a 
burglary whilst they were on holiday. A burglar gained entry through a sash window and 
stole property including a large amount of jewellery. 
Mr L made a claim. RSA highlighted a condition of the policy which required that windows 
have key operated locks. They said Mr Ls house didnt have key operated locks on the 
window in question and because of this they declined the claim. 
Mr L complained and when he didnt receive a response within eight weeks he referred the 
matter to our service. He was also unhappy with the amount of time taken to make a 
decision on his claim and the general service hed received. One of our investigators thought 
the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that whilst the window didnt have key 
operated locks, she didnt think the evidence suggested that this would have made a 
difference to how the burglar got in. So, she didnt think it was fair for RSA to rely on that 
condition to decline the claim and recommended that the claim be reconsidered without 
reference to the same term. She also thought that RSA had provided poor service and that 
£200 was a fair amount of compensation for the impact that had.
RSA accepted the recommendation about the compensation payment but disagreed about 
the claim decision and have asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons, 
let me explain why. 
Mr Ls policy says: It is a condition of the insurance in respect of loss of or damage to the 
insured property at the home caused by theftthatall ground floor and basement opening 
windowsare secured by key operated locks. 
DRN-1520586It isnt in dispute that the window through which the burglar entered was a ground floor 
window and that it didnt have key operated locks. So at first glance it might appear that the 
endorsement to the policy applies and that no cover is available for theft. But my role means 
I must consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, not necessarily just a 
strict reading of the policy terms. 
I only think it would be fair for RSA to rely on this policy endorsement to decline the claim if 
the window not having a key operated lock makes a material difference in the 
circumstances. Im not an expert in windows or locks, so Ive considered various reports and 
evidence in relation to this complaint. 
Emails from a police officer involved in investigating the crime said The ground floor window 
to the living room is a sash window and the bottom half had come away from the frame. The 
glass was intact and had not been smashedI can confirm that there was no damage to the 
locks on the window that the burglars gained entry and the locks were still intact.
Beyond this RSA sent a Loss Adjuster to Mr Ls property following the claim. The loss 
adjusters report said under the heading of Method of Entry and Exit' Forced entry through 
the front ground floor sash window by removing sash from frame leaving by same means. 
Elsewhere in the report it also says It appears the window was levered off frame bending 
central catch without damaging glass.
I find both the loss adjusters report and the police officers notes to be persuasive evidence. 
It isnt suggested by either that the locks on the window not being key operated would have 
made a difference here. I would expect both a police officer and a loss adjuster to be familiar 
with common methods used by criminals to gain entry. In this case, the evidence from both 
suggests that the window was removed from the frame. And Ive not seen anything to 
persuade me that this was only possible (or was made easier) as a result the locks on the 
window not being key operated. 
Ive considered RSAs submissions which conclude that key operated window locks would 
have made a difference here. They also provided reports from the technicians who 
conducted the repairs. There is a picture which shows the frame to be slightly split close to 
the central catch. I think this is evidence that even if the catch in question was key operated, 
then I dont think this would have made a difference as the breaking point was evidently the 
splitting of the wood. If the catch didnt give before the wood split, Im not sure a catch 
including a key operated lock (which would have fulfilled the requirements of the policy) 
would have made a difference.
Overall, the evidence suggests that the window was removed from its frame. This isnt a 
case where a thief reached in and was able to defeat a lock because it wasnt key operated. 
Or where there were no locks on the window at all. The police officer specifically commented 
that the locks remained intact. In these circumstances I think its most likely that a key 
operated lock would have similarly remained intact and that entry still could have been 
gained in the same way.
It follows that I dont think it is fair for RSA to decline the claim on the basis of the 
endorsement quoted above. I think a fair resolution would be for them to reconsider the 
claim  without reference to the same endorsement but in line with the remaining terms, 
conditions and policy limits. 
I also agree that RSA didnt provide good service in the handling of the claim. The loss was 
reported in April 2019 and the loss adjuster attended the same month. But the claim wasnt 
formally declined until August 2019. I think RSA could have given Mr and Mrs L an answer in 
relation to their claim far sooner than they did. In thinking about suitable compensation I have to keep in mind that being victims of crime, particularly a domestic burglary, is always 
going to be an upsetting experience. So it wouldnt be fair for me to ask RSA to compensate 
Mr and Mrs L for all the trouble and upset they experienced. But having carefully thought 
about it, I think the £200 our investigator recommended is a fair amount for the impact of the 
delays and poor service that RSA are responsible for. 
Putting things right
To put things right I require RSA to do the following. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must:
Reconsider Mr and Mrs Ls claim without reference to the endorsement about key
operated window locks.
Pay Mr and Mrs L £200 for the trouble and upset caused by their handling of the
claim (unless they have already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman