DRN-4249089
The complaint
Mr B complains about AXA Insurance UK Plc and their decision to decline the claim he 
made on his home insurance policy after his camera equipment was stolen.
What happened
Mr B held a home insurance policy, underwritten by AXA in their role as the insurer. The 
policy itself was purchased and arranged through an intermediary, who Ill refer to as H. As 
part of this policy, Mr B paid an additional premium to insure several items within, and away, 
from his home. This included his camera equipment. Unfortunately, on 3 August 2022, Mr B 
found this equipment was missing. And after some thought, he concluded that the equipment 
was most likely stolen from his vehicle overnight. So, he contacted AXA to make a claim on 
his policy.
In this situation, H acted an agent of AXA during the claim process. But as H were acting on 
AXAs behalf, Ill refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by H as if they were made 
or taken by AXA.
AXA appointed a specialist claim validation company, who Ill refer to as G, to assess the 
claim on their behalf. As G were acting on behalf of AXA, AXA remain ultimately responsible 
for the service, and decision, G reached. G considered Mr Bs claim and declined it, 
explaining the policy terms and conditions excluded theft claims where items are stolen from 
an unoccupied vehicle.
Mr B was unhappy about this. And after some thought, he provided a new version of events 
for the theft, explaining his belief that the equipment had been stolen while he and his wife 
were unloading his vehicle, whilst his grandson was in the car asleep. So, Mr B didnt think 
the vehicle was unoccupied and he felt the claim should be reconsidered.
G considered Mr Bs new version of events, but they continued to decline the claim 
maintaining their belief that the claim circumstances fell under the policy exclusions. Mr B 
was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr B didnt think the claim had been declined fairly by G, and so, AXA. And he explained due 
to his own personal circumstances, he was not able to replace the equipment. Mr B also 
complained about the sale of the policy and the information he was given by H some years 
earlier.
AXA responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they had acted fairly 
when declining the claim, based on the theft circumstances and the policy exclusions. So, 
they didnt think they needed to do anything more regarding this aspect of the complaint. As 
H were responding on AXAs behalf, H also commented on the sale of the policy within this 
response. Mr B remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained the policy was 
sold by H in their role as an intermediary, and not AXA. So, as this complaint was set up 
about AXA regarding the claim decline, our investigator explained the mis-sale aspect of the 
complaint hadnt been considered under this complaint reference. And our investigator 
thought the claim itself had been declined fairly by AXA, under the terms and conditions of 
the policy Mr B held. So, he didnt think AXA needed to do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree with this. He explained his belief that any potential theft wouldve occurred 
using deception, considering his grandson wouldve been in the car supervised either by 
himself or his wife. So, he maintained his belief that the claim had been declined unfairly. As 
Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr B. I recognise the 
equipment Mr B claimed for had a significant financial and sentimental meaning to him. So, 
when he discovered the equipment was missing, I can appreciate the significant upset and 
worry this wouldve caused. I also recognise that Mr B took out the policy with AXA, including 
additional specified item cover away from his home, to assist him both financially and 
practically in situations such as the one he found himself in. So, when AXA declined the 
claim, I can understand why Mr B would feel unfairly treated.
But for me to say AXA should do something more, such as overturn the original decline and 
accept the claim, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, Id need to 
be satisfied they failed to act within the policy terms and conditions when declining the claim. 
Or, if I think AXA did work within these, Id need to be satisfied that they acted unfairly in 
some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to set out 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. I recognise Mr B has concerns about the sale of the 
policy, and the advice he was given surrounding this. But Mr B purchased the policy through 
H, who were acting as an intermediary in their own capacity, as a separate regulated 
company to AXA. So, any complaint about the advice H provided at the point of sale, or any 
renewals, would need to be considered under a separate complaint reference. And so, I 
wont be commenting on this any further within this decision.
Instead, Ive focused on the actions taken by AXA in their role as the insurer. And as the 
insurer, they are responsible for the decline of the claim. So, Ive considered the declinature 
of the claim and decided whether I think it was fair, and within the policy terms and 
conditions. And I think it was on this occasion.
When Mr B initially reported his claim to AXA, he explained his belief that the equipment had 
been stolen from his unoccupied car overnight. And its accepted there was no sign of 
damage or violent entry to his car, so Mr B speculated that the theft had been completed 
gaining access to his car remotely while he was in his home.
I can see G, on behalf of AXA, considered these circumstances against the policy terms and 
conditions. Within these terms and conditions, under the relevant section for specified items 
outside of the home, Ive seen it explains that for theft claims, cover isnt provided for items 
stolen from unoccupied vehicles. Its not disputed that, in this version of events, the vehicle Mr Bs equipment was in was unoccupied and so, I think AXA applied this exclusion fairly 
here and Im unable say they were unreasonable when initially declining the claim.
But I note a few weeks after this decision was communicated to Mr B, he returned to G 
providing a differing version of events. And he explained he did so as he checked his cars 
security software, which he accepted showed there was no access made to his car 
overnight.
Because of this, Mr B felt the theft most likely occurred during the afternoon of 2 August 
2022, when he and his wife were unloading the contents of his car into his home. Within Mr 
Bs version of events, he explained his grandson was asleep in the car throughout the entire 
unloading process. And Mr B explained that during that time, my wife and I were separately 
conveying various items from the car to the house, whilst keeping an eye on our grandson, 
who continued to sleep in his car seat. Mr B went onto explain that he thought it wouldve 
taken him between 3 to 4 minutes to remove his grandson from the car before securing the 
locks and activating the security system. So, he thought it was during this period the 
equipment was stolen. And he felt it was likely the persons stealing the equipment wouldve 
most likely concealed themselves near his car, in a deceptive manner. So, this is why he felt 
the claim should be upheld.
Im satisfied G, on behalf of AXA, considered this new version of events, as Id expect them 
to do, as they provided an email reply on 12 September 2022 maintaining the decline of the 
claim. So, Ive thought about whether this decline fell within the policy exclusions. And I think 
it did.
Based on Mr Bs version of events, I think AXA have acted fairly when deeming the car to 
still be unoccupied. This is because, based on the description provided by Mr B, the only 
person that remained definitively in the car was his sleeping grandson. And considering the 
age of his grandson, who needed to be removed from the car by an adult, and the fact his 
grandson was asleep, I dont think his grandson wouldve been able to have deterred any 
theft that was taking place.
I appreciate Mr B has disputed this, and has since explained either he, or his wife, sat in the 
back of the car with his grandson. But I dont think this was made clear in Mr Bs version of 
events that AXA had to consider at the time they declined the claim. Mr Bs version of events 
suggested both he and his wife were removing items from the car and taking them into their 
home. While Mr B did say they were keeping an eye on his grandson, I dont think his 
testimony made clear that at any given time, one of them were always in the car with him. 
So, I dont think there was any information available to AXA that suggested to them the car 
shouldve been deemed to be occupied.
And even if they had, the terms and conditions also explain that cover isnt provided unless 
there are signs of damage caused by the thief (or thieves) to access the item(s), or they 
used violence or deception to steal your item(s), or the item(s) were under your personal 
supervision at the time of the theft.
In this situation, its already accepted there were no signs of damage, or violence used to 
gain access to the items. And in Mr Bs version of events, the items werent under his 
personal supervision as he felt they were most likely stolen while he transported his 
grandson into his home. So, for cover to be provided, if we were to say the vehicle was 
occupied, there would need to have been deception used to obtain the equipment. And I 
dont think I can say there was here.
Mr B has accepted there was a period of time between him taking his grandson out of the 
car, and the car being locked. So, I dont think the thief or thieves needed to deceive Mr B to gain access to the car, as it was left unlocked with no supervision. And because of this, I 
think AXA wouldve fairly declined the claim, whether or not the car was deemed to be 
occupied.
I appreciate Mr B doesnt agree with this. And he feels that the thieves concealing 
themselves whilst he unloaded the car was a form of deception. But I dont think this is the 
deception that allowed them access to the car. The access to the car, and so the items, was 
present as the car was left unlocked, and unattended, while Mr B transported his grandson 
into his home based on his version of events. Had the car been locked, I think its 
reasonable to assume this theft wouldnt have taken place, with or without the potential 
thief/thieves concealing themselves. So, I dont think Mr Bs comments changed my decision 
that AXA have acted fairly, and within the policy terms and conditions, when declining the 
claim. And because of this, I dont think AXA need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about AXA Insurance UK 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman