DRN-2365900
The complaint
Ms O complained about American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex). She said that 
she was overcharged at an event where she paid using her Amex card, but Amex refused to 
refund her.
What happened
On 28 September 2019, Ms O booked a table reservation for an event abroad. She paid 
$108.18 for the reservation, which was debited to her Amex card in sterling as £90.81.
Ms O attended the event on 29 September. The bill for the evening came to $255.17, which 
was debited to her Amex card in sterling as £214.17.
But Ms O said that the price of the table reservation, which shed already paid, should have 
been deducted from the bill on the evening. So she said the total should have been $255.17 
minus $108.81, which she said would be $106.70. 
Ms O also said shed forgotten the service charge would be added, so she said that what 
she should have been charged was $126.30, not $255.17.
Ms O complained to Amex, which put the disputed $255.17, as sterling £214.77, into 
suspense while it investigated. It asked Ms O for a copy of her receipt to support the claim. 
Ms O sent a document which included the venue name and address, and the following:
Items         198.00
Tax                 8.70
Discounts   -100
Gratuity         19.60
Total            126.30 
The final total is crossed through in pen, with a handwritten 106.70 next to it. 
At the bottom is the wording Cardholder agrees to pay the above total amount according to 
issuer agreement.  There are no card or charging details, so its not a payment receipt.
Amex didnt accept that this was sufficient to dispute the $255.17 debit to Ms Os account, 
and it re-debited the disputed amount. There was further correspondence and calls between 
Ms O and Amex. But Amex said that as the transaction had been authenticated using the 
genuine cards chip, and Ms Os signature, it couldnt do more. It advised Ms O to contact 
the merchant herself.
Ms O wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said shed been charged $255.17 
instead of $106.70, though she hadnt accounted for the service charge so it should have 
been $126.30. She said that the incident had happened while she was on holiday abroad, 
and the reason shed referred the dispute to Amex was so that they would be able to use 
their infinite resources to contact the merchant on my behalf. Ms O went on to say that she 
didnt have the time or money to call a merchant based in [place name] with a time 
difference of 5 hours, especially where  the merchant operates largely in the evenings. She 
also said it had been five months since the incident, so the merchant probably wouldnt be 
aware of the mistake and the relevant people would no longer be there. She said this 
wouldnt have been so difficult if Amex had provided its final response earlier.
Ms O also said that she was worried that if she ever agreed to pay a certain amount abroad, 
the merchant could take whatever they liked with no recourse. Ms O wanted Amex to cover 
the extra shed paid.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Os complaint. He said that Amex had provided evidence 
that Ms Os genuine card, with its chip, and her signature, had been used to authenticate the 
$255.17 payment. He considered Ms O had authorised the payment. And he also said Amex 
hadnt been wrong to refuse to take this further for her. She hadnt provided any evidence 
that the initial payment should have been deducted from the final bill.
Ms O didnt agree. She said shed authorised $106.70, not $255.17. She said the receipt 
shed provided showed that she hadnt authorised the higher amount. She asked for an 
ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place on 29 September 2019 are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. Ms Os genuine card with its chip, and signature, 
were used. And Ms O doesnt dispute that she used her genuine card, but says she should 
have paid less. So the disputed payment was authenticated. Thats the technical part.
But the regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised 
the payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the 
payments, and the customer is liable if he or she did authorise them.
Its an account holders responsibility to check that they agree the amount presented to them 
for authorisation. Ms O hasnt said that, at the time, she disputed the $255.17 figure which 
she authorised. Id have expected her to do so, if she believed it should have been a much 
lower figure.
Ms O hasnt provided a copy of the transaction slip, which shed have been given or offered 
at the time. And if Ms O believed shed authorised a different amount, Id have expected her 
to provide evidence of this transaction slip which she signed on the night. The document Ms 
O provided, which Ive quoted above, isnt this. It cant be, because it doesnt include the 
Amex card details, or relevant charging codes and numbers which would be present on an 
actual debit authorisation. It looks as if it might be an interim receipt brought to the table for a 
part order which would be part of a total to be paid at the end of the evening. But it definitely 
isnt evidence of what Ms O actually authorised on her card at the end of the evening.
Ms O also hasnt provided any documentary evidence that the reservation fee was to have 
been deducted from what she spent on the night. Theres nothing on the reservation which 
says this.  Its simply a table reservation.  It doesnt say that any of the spend during the 
evening is included in the reservation fee and will be deducted from the final bill.
Ive also looked at the detailed figures which Ms O provided, and they dont add up. Ms O 
said that the total should have been $255.17 minus $108.81, which she said would be 
$106.70, but £255.17 minus $108.81 isnt £106.70.  Its $146.36. This isnt the figure on any of Ms Os submissions. Nor is it the figure on the document which 
has a total of $126.30 which has been crossed out by an unknown hand and changed to 
$106.70. In her complaint to this service, Ms O said that she hadnt accounted for the service 
charge so the actual amount should be $126.30. This implies that hers was the writing on 
the document which changed it from $126.30 to $106.70. But neither of these figures adds 
up to what Ms O says was right  in other words $255.17 less the reservation fee of 
£108.81. That comes to $146.36. So this backs up my finding that the document Ms O 
provided isnt evidence of the total which she authorised.
This means that there is no valid evidence to dispute the very definite evidence of the 
computer records which show that what Ms O authorised was $255.17. Ive seen nothing to 
indicate this wasnt the correct amount.
Ms O has also complained that there were delays in Amex providing her final response. Ive 
looked at the notes and correspondence, which shows that Amex first declined Ms Os claim 
as early as 10 October. Amex gave Ms O an opportunity to provide more information and 
there were more phone calls and further correspondence over the next few months. I 
consider it was fair of Amex to give Ms O the chance to provide more, and not a 
disadvantage as she believes. The answer remained the same throughout these exchanges 
until the final response on 12 February 2020, but there was no undue delay. 
In its final response, Amex suggested to Ms O that she should contact the merchant herself. 
I consider this was fair, because the merchant would have offered or given Ms O the 
transaction slip and probably an invoice too. As Ive quoted above, Ms O also said she 
doesnt have the time or money to contact a merchant abroad. Im not persuaded by this 
argument. Ms O chose to spend $108.18 plus $255.17 on her night out. Ive seen no 
evidence to indicate that Ms Os financial situation has changed so much in recent months 
that shes now unable to afford an international phone call or email. But even if it has, there 
still isnt an obligation for Amex to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman