DRN-3843459
The complaint
Ms M, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans.
What happened
Ms M was advanced six home collected loans between February 2018 and July 2021. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £400.00 20/02/2018 29/10/2018 33 £20.00
2 £300.00 30/10/2018 13/05/2019 33 £15.00
3 £300.00 13/05/2019 20/01/2020 33 £15.00
4 £300.00 19/02/2020 06/11/2020 34 £15.00
5 £600.00 06/11/2020 21/07/2021 34 £30.00
6 £600.00 21/07/2021 29/03/2022 35 £30.00
Following Ms Ms complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt
going to uphold it. Ms Ms representative didnt accept the outcome and referred the
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She thought Morses had made a reasonable
decision to provide loans 1  3 so she didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint about them. But she
thought the lending was now harmful for Ms M by the time loans 4 was granted and so she
upheld Ms Ms complaint about loans 4 - 6.
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached. Ive summarised its
comments below.
Loans were taken in consecutive manner, but Ms M was under no obligation to settle
loans and then take further lending.
No evidence has been provided to show Ms M was using other funds to meet her
repayments which would lead her to borrow again.
Adequate checks were carried out before these loans were approved.
Ms M had a good repayment history.
Ms Ms representative confirmed receipt of the assessment but no further comments were 
provided.
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. I then 
proceeded to issue a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to 
uphold Ms Ms complaint about loans 5 and 6 only. A copy of the provisional findings follows 
in smaller font and italics and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms M could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and
Ms Ms income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms M. These factors include:
Ms M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms M.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms M could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms M was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ms complaint.
Neither Morses nor Ms M (or her representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the
adjudicator reached about loans 1  3. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute.
But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the rest of Ms Ms lending relationship.
Loan 4
The adjudicator upheld the loan because in her view the lending was now harmful for
Ms M.
I accept, that Ms M had been indebted with Morses for around 2 years (before loan 4 was
advanced)  and she was further committing to be indebted for an additional 34 weeks. This,
in some situations could be a sign that she was now reliant on the borrowing or at the very
least having longer term money management problems.
However, while the lending was consecutive, she didnt ever have more than one loan
running at any one time, the loans werent increasing in value and there was also noevidence of serious repayment problems.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Morses wouldve or ought to have realised the
loan was unsustainable for Ms M and so I am intending to conclude the loan wasnt likely to
be so harmful that it wouldve prompted Morses to have stopped lending to her.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. I do think the time in
debt, returning to borrowing a similar sum as she had done for previous loans ought to have
alerted Morses to the possibility that Ms M may have been having some money
management problems.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Ms M declared to it
about her income and expenditure even though this information suggested Ms M could
afford the loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Ms Ms actual financial position to
ensure the loan was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for
evidence of her outgoings (such as copies of bills), or looking at bank statements and/or 
Ms Ms full credit file.
This mightve helped verify information she had provided and revealed whether there was
any other information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Ms Ms financial
position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to be
satisfied that had Morses carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it wouldve
likely discovered that Ms M couldnt afford it.
Ms Ms representative hasnt provided a full copy of her credit file or copies of her bank
statements covering the period leading up to loan being advanced. Without anything further,
I cant be sure what Morses may have seen had it carried out better checks. So, I cant fairly
uphold the complaint about this loan.
Although Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to say that further
checks wouldve led it to conclude that loan 4 shouldnt have been granted.
So, on current evidence, Im intending to not uphold Ms Ms complaint about this loan.
Loans 5 and 6
For these loans, Morses has shown that it asked Ms M for details of her income and
expenditure. She declared, for loan 5 an income of £334 with outgoings of £184 per week.
This left Ms M with a weekly disposable income of around £151 per week for loan 5 to make
her repayment of £30.
Similar figures were provided for loan 6, with a declared disposable weekly income of around
£144 to meet the commitment of £30.
Based solely on Ms Ms income and expenditure information Morses couldve been confident
she would be able to comfortably afford the repayments she was committed to making.
But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Ms M had
been indebted to Morses, her future weekly commitment and what Morses already knew
about Ms Ms finances. For example, Ms M returning for further borrowing on the same day
a previous loan had been repaid. By now, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at
the very least, started to have verified the information it was being given. Ive not seen
anything to suggest carried out further checks in this case.
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate checkwouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were unaffordable for Ms M.
So, in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern
of Morses lending history with Ms M, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further
loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Ms case, I think that this point was reached by
loan 5. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Ms M was not managing to repay her
loans sustainably. Ms M had taken out four loans in 33 months. So Morses ought to
have realised it was more likely than not Ms M was having to borrow further to cover
a long-term shortfall in her living costs.
From her first loan, Ms M was provided with a new loan on the same day a previous
loan was repaid  so they were lent generally, in a consecutive manner. To me, this
is a sign that Ms M was using these loans to fill a long-term gap in her income rather
than as a short-term need.
Ms M had some minor problems repaying her previous loans, with loans 1, 3 and 4
taking up to 3 weeks longer to repay them than contracted to. The fact this as
happening on a regular basis could suggest Ms M had underlining financial
problems.
Loan 5 was now the largest capital loan advanced to date and was an increase on
loans 2  4. There was only one time when her commitment decreased. Which may
have given Morses confidence that Ms M was no longer reliant on these loans.
However, the fact that these loans were lent in a consecutive manner, ought to have
led it to realise these loans werent sustainable anymore.
Ms M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 6 was
taken out 37 months after Ms Ms first loan and was to be repaid over the longest
term  35 weeks. Her final loan was the joint largest capital loan to date and was
more 50% larger in value than the first loan. Ms M had paid large amounts of interest
to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Ms M lost out when Morses provided loans 5 and 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ms indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms M borrowed was likely to
have had negative implications on Ms Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint about loans 5 and 6.
Response to provisional decision 
Both Ms M and Morses were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as 
possible, but in any event, no later than 7 December 2022. 
Morses confirmed receipt of the provisional decision and it said it had nothing further to add. 
Ms Ms representative acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision but no further 
comments or evidence have been provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Morses nor Ms M (or her representative) provided anything further for 
consideration I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in the provisional 
decision. I still think, by the time of loan 5, for the reasons given above, the lending was now 
unsustainable for Ms M and so Morses ought to not have provided loans 5 and 6 to her. 
Ive outlined below what Morses needs to do in order to put things right for Ms M in relation 
to loans 5 and 6. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had if it hadnt lent loans 5 and 6 to Ms M, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms M may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms M would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Ms M with loans 5 and 6.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms M towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms M originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Ms M the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Ms Ms borrowing for loans 4 and 5 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so you should remove these loans entirely from 
Ms Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above in the provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Ms 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms M as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman