DRN-3552317
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) hasnt refunded the 
money he lost in an investment scam.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr W made four payments totalling £200,006.95 to invest in a twenty 
month (March 2019 to November 2020) fixed rate bond. When interest wasnt paid at the 
end of the first year, Mr W discovered he was the victim of a scam and reported the matter to 
Halifax.
Halifax didnt agree to a refund and so Mr W brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr W s complaint recommended that it be upheld. She 
asked Halifax to refund £200,006.95 plus 8% simple interest per year from the date the 
transactions were made until they were refunded. Halifax initially didnt accept the 
investigators findings and raised further points which the investigator addressed. After 
reviewing the case again Halifax set out its offer as follows:
Consequently, and in an effort to resolve matters, I propose the following in resolution to [Mr 
Ws] complaint:
-Offer [Mr W] an unreserved apology.
-Refund the full amount of £200,006.95.
-A payment in lieu of interest lost, this will be accrued to the file interest on [Mr Ws] 
account.
The investigator contacted Mr W on 18 March 2021 and said Halifax agreed with her view. 
She then quoted the offer provided by Halifax (and set out above). 
Halifax paid Mr W the amount lost in the scam. In respect of interest Halifax said interest 
would be added to the accrued interest on the account and would be paid when the next 
interest was due on the account. At this stage, Mr W complained that he received £477.89 
when he expected around £32,000 based on a rate of 8% simple. 
A different investigator considered interest alone and said that 8% interest wasnt correct, 
and the offer put to Mr W didnt include this rate of interest. Mr W disagreed and referred to 
the wording in the view letter that set out interest at 8% simple. He said this is what he 
agreed to. So the matter has been referred to me to decide the rate of interest that should be 
paid to Mr W. 
I issued a provisional decision on 28 June 2022. In it I said,
As I have set out above, Halifax has now refunded the amount lost in the scam so I am only 
considering in this decision the interest that Mr W should receive.
Whilst the original investigator recommended interest at 8% simple in the view she sent to 
Halifax and shared with Mr W, Im satisfied this wasnt the rate that Halifax agreed. It also 
wasnt the rate set out when the original investigator put Halifaxs offer to Mr W. The 
investigator quoted Halifaxs offer which included, A payment in lieu of interest lost, this will 
be accrued to the file interest on [Mr Ws] account. Mr W accepted this offer and so Im 
satisfied he didnt accept an offer of 8% simple interest. 
I think the investigator could have been clearer that Halifax didnt offer the 8% interest she 
recommended and also that Halifax could have been clearer about the interest it was 
offering. But there is no mention of 8% in the offer put to Mr W.
It appears Mr Ws acceptance of the offer was based on a misunderstanding of it and so I 
need to decide the rate of interest Halifax should pay on the award made. 
When this service thinks a financial business has done something wrong, we aim to put a 
customer back in the position they would have been in had a mistake not happened. So, I 
need to think about what Mr W would have done with his funds had Halifax prevented Mr 
Ws loss.
I dont consider a rate of interest of 8% is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. I say this for a number of reasons. If I were to apply a rate of interest of 8% Mr W 
would be in a better position than if the scam hadnt happened as it wasnt possible to obtain 
this rate at the time he chose to invest. Even the fake investment Mr W paid money for didnt 
have a rate of return this high. Mr W told the investigator hed taken out bonds in the past 
with high street building societies and these financial businesses were paying much lower 
rates of interest at the time (and were very low risk).
But I also dont consider that paying Mr W account interest rate is fair. Having considered Mr 
Ws bank statements I can see that Mr W received a credit of £246,621.38 into a Halifax 
current account. Mr W has explained that this lump sum came from a pension payout. On 
the same day he transferred this sum into the savings account he later made the scam 
payments from around a month later. So I think it unlikely that were it not for the scam Mr 
Ws funds would have remained in his Halifax saver account. 
Mr W was actively seeking to invest his pension proceeds in a low risk investment (a fixed 
term bond).  And, given what hes said about the way hes invested in the past, I think its 
more likely than not hed have instead put the money into a legitimate fixed term bond.  
There were many bonds available on the market at that time and I cant fairly say hed have 
chosen or been eligible to apply for the one that paid the highest rate.  So I think its fair to 
calculate his financial loss with reference to the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds as 
published by the Bank of England. 
Information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website by 
searching for quoted household interest rates and then clicking on the related link to their 
database and the rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
When he fell victim to the scam Mr W was intending to invest for 20 months. The Bank of 
England publishes rates for one, two and three year fixed rate bonds so I consider that 
Halifax should pay the average compound interest rate for a two year fixed rate bond as 
published by the Bank of England from March 2019 to March 2021. In the absence of any 
other evidence, I consider it likely Mr W would have reinvested in another bond for the same 
period and so Im persuaded that from March 2021 interest should be paid at the average 
rate that applied in March 2021 to the date of settlement. I think this is the fairest way of, as far as possible, putting Mr W in the position he would 
have been had the fraud not taken place  that being that he would have likely purchased a 
legitimate fixed rate bond elsewhere and continued to invest his money without risking the 
capital. 
Mr W accepted my provisional decision, but Halifax did not. In summary, Halifax said:
-Industry wide practice is to apply the savings account interest rate in these 
circumstances except in exceptional circumstances. 
-Halifax doesnt agree that a different rate should apply in this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Halifaxs response, I have reached the same outcome as I did in my 
provisional decision and for the same reasons.
As I said in my provisional decision, the aim of any redress this service awards is to put a 
customer in the same position theyd have been in had a mistake not happened. In this case, 
awarding interest at the savings account interest rate doesnt put Mr W in the position he 
would have been in had Halifax taken the steps I think it should have. This is because Im 
persuaded that Mr Ws funds wouldnt have remained in his savings account. Instead, I 
consider Mr W would have invested in a legitimate fixed term bond. And so I consider that 
Halifax should pay interest based on the average compound interest rates of fixed term 
bonds as set out below.
My final decision
I require Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to:
-Pay compound interest on £200,006.95 at the monthly average rate for two-year 
fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England for the month of March 2019 
from the date Mr W made the payments to 4 March 2021.
-Pay interest on the same basis as set out above, but using the rate for March 2021, 
from 5 March 2021 to the date of settlement.
-After calculating interest as set out above Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
should deduct the interest payment it has already made to Mr W (which I believe to 
be £477.89).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman