DRN-2641118
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Synergy Financial Products Limited didnt tell him how much the value 
of his Homemaker Plan had fallen before it was cashed in.
What happened
In early 2020 Synergy sent Mr C information letting him know that his Homemaker Plan (a 
type of Stocks and Shares New Individual Savings Account) was due to mature in March 
that year. This information included an estimated value of the plan at that time. Mr C 
completed the forms and sent them back to Synergy confirming hed like to cash in all of the 
plan at maturity.
When the plan matured and was cashed in Mr C received around £10,000 less than he was 
expecting. He complained to Synergy saying they shouldve called him to let him know about 
the drop in value before going ahead with the encashment.
Synergy agreed that the plan had fallen considerably in value but said they arent in a 
position to keep Mr C informed about what was happening in the markets. They said the 
documents they provided recommended Mr C discuss matters with his financial adviser if he 
wanted advice.
Mr C remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They agreed that Mr C had lost a large amount of 
money but explained that Synergy were the administrators of the plan and they had fulfilled 
their obligations in that role. Mr C wasnt happy with that outcome so the complaint has 
come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr C has lost a large amount of money. This is obviously upsetting and 
its clear to me how strongly he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr C that Ive 
read and considered everything hes provided.
I think its important to say that Synergy dont provide financial advice. They administer the 
plan and process instructions they get from plan holders or their financial advisors. 
The maturity letter sent to Mr C included the terms and conditions of the plan as well as a 
key features document. The letter said to carefully read these documents and to discuss the 
options with his financial adviser as Synergy couldnt provide financial advice. Mr C was also 
provided with an estimated value of the plan calculated at the date of the letter.
Having looked at the terms and conditions and key features documents (which are ten pages 
and fourteen pages respectively) Im happy they make clear how the plan works. The key 
features document makes specific reference to the fact that past performance should not be 
seen as an indication of future performance. It also explains that the value may fall as well 
as rise and that you may not get back the original amount invested.
I think the maturity letter also makes clear that the statement was an estimated value of the 
plan. Its unfortunate timing that between Mr C returning the maturity form to Synergy and 
the plan being cashed in the value fell considerably. This isnt something that Synergy could 
have predicted and nor were they responsible for. What they were responsible for was 
processing the encashment at maturity as Mr C had asked them to do, which is what they 
did.  
Of course a phone call to Mr C wouldve made him aware of the fall in value, however Im 
satisfied that this isnt something Synergy had to do. Nothing in any of the documents say 
that Synergy would make such a telephone call. I think they make clear that they dont give 
financial advice and that plan holders should speak to their advisor if advice is required. Its 
not for Synergy to question the instructions of plan holders. In this case Mr C thinks Synergy 
shouldve called him, but I dont think they acted unreasonably by not doing so. Mr C asked 
Synergy to cash in the plan at maturity and thats what happened.
I can see that Mr C thinks the plan was too risky for him. If Mr C received advice to invest in 
this plan, and if hes unhappy with that advice, then hell need to contact his advisor to 
discuss the level of risk. This isnt something that Synergy are responsible for. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Synergy acted fairly and 
reasonably when cashing in the plan at maturity. Thats not to say that Mr C hasnt suffered 
a financial loss; he clearly has. However Synergy dont give advice and correctly acted upon 
Mr Cs instruction.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman