DRN-3627167
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the way Scottish Widows Limited has handled claims she made 
under three personal protection policies. Specifically, she wants Scottish Widows to 
recognise it should have paid claims under all three policies when she first pursued the 
matter in 2018  yet two of the claims were only settled in 2021.  
What happened
Mrs D is also represented by her husband, Mr D in pursuing her complaint.  
Mrs D held three personal protection policies with Scottish Widows. Two of the policies were 
taken out in March 1998. The first offered life assurance and critical illness cover with a sum 
assured of £100,000 for a 23-year term. The second offered life cover of £130,000 for the 
same period to March 2021. The third policy began in January 2006. It offered life cover for a 
21-year term with a sum assured of £400,000. 
All three policies were taken out through an independent financial adviser. As well as life 
cover, each policy included terminal illness benefit up to the last 18 months before expiry.  
In November 2018, Mr D contacted Scottish Widows to make a claim on Mrs Ds behalf. She 
had sadly been diagnosed that month with a type of incurable cancer affecting the brain.  
In January 2019, Scottish Widows accepted a claim against the first policy under the critical 
illness definition of cancer. It paid Mrs D £100,247.53 in settlement of the claim.  
In January 2021, Mr and Mrs D contacted Scottish Widows again to enquire about claims 
under Mrs Ds other two life assurance policies for terminal illness benefit. 
Scottish Widows handler explained that one of the two life assurance policies was due to 
end in March 2021 and therefore a terminal illness claim would need to have to been met 
before 6 September 2019  that being 18 months before the expiry date. The other policy did 
not reach the 18-month period until 2025. It agreed to look at whether a claim could be made 
under the later policy and if a retrospective claim could have been made on the earlier one.  
A medical report was sought from Mrs Ds treating consultant and received in March 2021. 
Scottish Widows said this report confirmed that though Mrs D had an incurable condition, 
she had completed her radiotherapy and otherwise continued to be stable with no evidence 
of recurrence. Despite this, he commented that Mrs D had exceeded an average life 
expectancy, and therefore may have less than 12 months to live.  
Scottish Widows did not consider this was satisfactory evidence of either policy wording 
being met, because the conclusion drawn by the consultant was simply based on statistical 
evidence. Nonetheless, it decided to pay both claims on an ex-gratia basis as at 1 March 
2021.  
In April 2021, Mrs D complained. She said she was concerned that Scottish Widows knew 
she had three policies that all related to her diagnosis in 2018. It could have combined these 
and made one claim payment to her in January 2019, but it did not do so. She said the 
settlement of all three policies would have made a significant difference to her and her 
family, and they wouldnt have needed to maintain unnecessary policy premiums either.  
In a further conversation with Scottish Widows, Mrs D also said that she had been told in 
2018 by her treating consultant that she had less than a year to live  and her GP would 
have confirmed as such if it had sought evidence to that effect at the time.  
In July 2021, Scottish Widows rejected the complaint, but offered compensation to Mrs D for 
the way it had handled her claim and the poor service she and her family had received.  
The final response letter of July 2021 went into considerable detail about Mrs Ds 
background, which I wont set out here  though I have read it in full. It also explained in 
detail how terminal illness benefit in protection policies worked. 
In summary, Scottish Widows concluded that:
the three policies could not be reviewed collectively;
each policy was unique and subject to its own policy schedules and set of terms and 
conditions;
when it received the information about Mrs Ds illness it sought medical evidence 
from her GP to confirm the nature of her type of cancer;
in doing so, it received evidence satisfactory to meet the cancer policy wording under 
critical illness benefit for the first policy;
the GP explained that Mrs D had undergone a type of debulking surgery and was 
due to undergo radiotherapy;
but it did not receive any information from the GP that would have suggested Mrs D 
had a life expectancy of less than 12 months at the time; 
life expectancy prognosis for the purposes of a terminal illness benefit claim must
consider the life assured's personal prognosis based on the particular characteristics 
and rate of progression of their condition; 
it must also consider the potential effect of any treatment aimed at extending life 
expectancy;
it is not able to consider a claim based simply on the basis of average life expectancy 
statistics;
at the time of her claim Mrs D had not yet undergone the recommended treatment;
so, her response to the treatment and its effect on her life expectancy could not yet 
be determined or assessed;
that did not mean that it had disregarded that Mrs Ds diagnosis was of itself a type of 
terminal condition;
but rather, that she had not reached a point as yet where the policy wording of 
terminal illness benefit would be satisfied  and that is different;
it had not withheld terminal illness claim payments;
the payment of the claims now was on an ex-gratia basis only;
based on the medical information received both in 2018 and 2021 (whether the 
information from these periods was considered separately or together with the benefit 
of hindsight) a terminal illness claim was not valid under the terms of the policies; 
though it was not required to justify its offer, the ex-gratia consideration only arose 
because Mrs Ds survival had been beyond average statistics  but that was a 
decision taken outside of what the policy considerations required for terminal illness 
benefit;
it did accept that it ought to have made sure Mr and Mrs D understood that only a 
critical illness claim was being considered for the one policy, as the other two policies 
did not include that benefit;it also accepted Mrs D may not have known that terminal illness benefit claims were 
not being pursued in late 2018 or early 2019;
for this it paid £250 in compensation for the upset caused by the poor service. 
Mrs D remained unhappy. She and Mr D brought the complaint to this service. They said 
that Scottish Widows lack of information provided through poor service, omissions and 
oversights caused them significant stress. It was their view that Mrs Ds incurable condition 
should have facilitated full payment of claims under each of the policies she held, as Scottish 
Widows had sufficient information at the time of the initial claim in 2018.  
In the interim, Mr and Mrs D continued to correspond with Scottish Widows. Their financial 
adviser also communicated to Scottish Widows with their consent. 
Mrs D sent a letter dated 23 December 2021 which set out a full account of how their 
financial adviser thought the matter should be resolved. The letter also pointed out that:
the terminal illness claim (in the view of the financial adviser) had been overlooked;
Mr and Mrs D were therefore denied of the opportunity of investing the claim 
proceeds into an investment plan or similar;
by the time the proceeds were paid, the coronavirus pandemic and other global 
factors had made an economic impact;
the payment for stress ought to be £500 or more;
the time taken to resolve this matter had not been considered, for example at a rate 
of £30 per hour;
in fact Mr and Mrs D did go on to invest £250,000 in November 2021, and the 
financial adviser had calculated the various profits they had lost as a delay of not 
being able to invest the claim proceeds sooner;
the report from the GP and the later report from Mrs Ds treating consultant gave 
conflicting information and this was never addressed;
they take the view that Scottish Widows had all the information it needed to settle the 
claims at an earlier stage;
so, a refund payment is due of the additional premiums Mrs D paid, as well as a 
review of the compensation theyd been awarded as reviewed by their financial 
adviser.  
Scottish Widows issued another complaint response to Mrs D in January 2022. This said, in 
summary:
it was not prepared to change its view on the complaint;
neither the GP nor the treating consultant gave an estimate of Mrs Ds life 
expectancy that was satisfactory to meet the policy wording on either of the two life 
policies;
it could not have accepted a claim at the time of the GP report as treatment was 
outstanding; 
it recognises that Mr and Mrs D had said the consultant told Mrs D upon diagnosis 
that she may only live for a year;
but that was based on general assessments of diagnosis of Mrs Ds type of cancer 
and grading for those without treatment and it had been said verbally;
surgery, radiotherapy and adjuvant chemotherapy were all undertaken with a view to 
extending Mrs Ds life expectancy and these should not have been ignored;
thereafter the consultant report of 2021 had in fact confirmed Mrs Ds condition was 
stable; though the consultant had in his later report he would not be surprised if Mrs D were 
to sadly pass away within 12 months, this was in reference to general statistics for 
patients with Mrs Ds type of brain tumour;
it had decided to pay the claims on an ex-gratia basis, despite the lack of claim 
confirmation;
but there was no contractual obligation for Scottish Widows to meet a claim under 
either policy;
so the contention put forward by the financial adviser were irrelevant  because he 
had based his view on a delayed claim payment and this was incorrect;
it also does not accept any additional compensation is due to Mrs D.   
Mrs D clarified that she disagreed. She said she felt that the dispute boiled down to one 
point; if life expectancy for an individual with her type of brain tumour can fall anywhere 
across a relatively wide scale as Scottish Widows has suggested, then effectively that would 
allow Scottish Widows to only ever pay out on a policy upon the expiry of life. 
She therefore asked Scottish Widows to confirm that its policy wording was so bespoke that 
it had created a situation whereby it could withhold all terminal illness claim payments and 
only pay out death claims within the term of any given policy  despite having satisfactory 
expert medical evidence of life expectancy under one year.  
Scottish Widows did not address that issue in its reply of 11 March 2022, as the complaint 
was already lodged at this service. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint, but he did not think it should succeed. He felt 
Scottish Widows had fairly refused the two claims Mrs D had made for terminal illness 
benefit in 2018, noting that it wasnt unreasonable for it to have waited to assess the impact 
of planned radiotherapy treatment.  
He also noted that though Scottish Widows had gone on to settle both claims in 2021, it had 
decided to make the payments on an ex-gratia basis. So, he did not think that this should 
mean the claim were payable any sooner either.  
Mr D confirmed that he and Mrs D did not accept the investigators view on the complaint. In 
summary, they said:
they question the wording on policies of this type;
they feel the wording is generic such that grey areas can arise when policyholders 
make claims;
their understanding of the policies Mrs D held was that terminal illness benefit was 
payable to allow financial comfort in the event of whatever time a terminally ill person 
has left;
this would be regardless of the treatment the policyholder may go on to have;
so they question how Scottish Widows would react if presented with Mrs Ds terminal 
illness claims in 2022, as she is in the same medical position that she was in 2018;
it could be argued that insurers such as Scottish Widows are hedging their bets so 
that policyholders live beyond policy expiry dates thus avoiding the need to pay 
claims;
from discussions they have had with professional bodies they understand it would be 
unusual for an insurer to satisfy a claim if it wasnt because the claim had been met;
they therefore doubt the veracity of the suggestion that the claims payments are 
goodwill gestures;
they contend that Scottish Widows senior staff would not have sanctioned a payment 
unless it was due;they also believe that if they hadnt made complaints about service leading to the 
£250 offer, Scottish Widows might not have considered paying the outstanding 
terminal illness claims;
they also do not understand why the three policies were not integrated, when all of 
the claims under the policies relate to the same diagnosis for Mrs D;
they have asked a friend who works for a reinsurer and he expressed surprise that 
policies were being referred to as individual or bespoke;
he contended that policies were broadly similar and Scottish Widows ought to be 
able to provide a sample of insurance offerings it had available at the time Mrs D took 
out her policies.   
Our investigator wasnt minded to change his view. He explained that across different years, 
an insurer may change the policies it offers to customers and this was acceptable. He did 
not see any reason why it was necessary to obtain samples of other general policies to 
resolve this complaint.  
Mr D said he would seek this information himself, as he felt it was relevant to the outcome of 
Mrs Ds complaint. He said that this service ought to await a written confirmation he was due 
to receive from a Scottish Widows complaint manager regarding sample policies. 
Scottish Widows made no additional comments.  The complaint has now been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was really sorry to learn of Mrs Ds diagnosis. And I do not underestimate how difficult 
matters must be for Mr D, Mrs D and their family. Though I know my decision will be 
disappointing, I am also of the view that this complaint should not be upheld.  
The payment of the critical illness claim under that policys cancer definition took place 
promptly by Scottish Widows in January 2019 on receipt of medical evidence regarding Mrs 
Ds diagnosis in late 2018. I wont look at this further, as its not central to this complaint. 
What is in dispute is the claims under the two additional term assurance policies without 
critical illness benefit. In the absence of that cover, the policies provided life assurance with 
additional terminal illness benefit.  
I should note that it is not my role to make findings on the reasonableness of the ex-gratia 
payments made under both policies. That was a matter of discretion by Scottish Widows as 
it chose to make payments to Mrs D of its own volition. It has confirmed it did this despite 
confirmation of a valid claim under either life assurance policy.  
 
Ive gone on to look at the two life policies to determine whether I believe any terminal illness 
claim ought to have been paid before they were settled as at March 2021; this is since Mr 
and Mrs D contend that the evidence met the required policy wording from 2018 onwards. 
I have considered the parties' obligations are under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
That is the start point. The 1998 policies set out a definition of terminal illness as:
Terminal illness means that in our opinion you are suffering from an advanced or 
rapidly progressing, incurable condition and as a result of the condition will not survive for twelve months from the date on which we received notification of the 
condition.
And the 2006 policy says:
Terminal Illness
Advanced or rapidly progressing insurable illness where, in the opinion of an 
attending consultant and our Principle Medical Officer, the life expectancy is no 
greater than twelve months.
Under the 1998 life cover, the terminal illness benefit for Mrs D ended on 6 March 2019  
that being 18 months before the expiry date.
Mr and Mrs D have made a number of points about the fairness of each policys wording. 
Unless identical policies were taken out at the same time, there can be material differences 
between them. The wording insurers choose to use for protection policies of this type can 
change over time, as conditions are removed or added to policies due to advancements or 
changes to medical knowledge  but those types of amendments are over the longer term. 
What Scottish Widows meant about these specific policies being individual is that Mrs Ds 
policies were underwritten based on her medical circumstances and the disclosures she 
made about herself at the time of each policy going on risk. One of her policies had critical 
illness benefit whilst the other two did not. So, it was not possible to look at all three policies 
together  each policy needed to be looked at individually in terms of satisfying any claim. 
Though I know Mr D believes it is material to this complaint, I do not find it necessary to view 
samples of other policies Scottish Widows has issued in order to reach a fair outcome. The 
right approach is to look at Mrs Ds circumstances against the contracts of insurance she 
took out with Scottish Widows. 
I also do not believe there is anything unfair or unreasonable about either choice of policy 
wording set out above. When offering protection policies (such as critical illness cover, or 
terminal illness benefit on a life assurance policy) an insurer can decide what illnesses it will 
cover. Industry guidance from the Association of British Insurers (ABI) proposes model 
wordings for insurers to use in critical illness policies, and the guidance expressly says how 
insurers are free to decide on the conditions and exclusions applicable to their products.
Having looked at the model wording for terminal illness from the ABIs statement of best 
practice from 1999 and 2004 (the two most proximate statement to the start dates of Mrs Ds 
policies), its suggested wording for insurers including terminal illness cover is:
Advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness where, in the opinion of an 
attending Consultant and our Chief Medical Officer, the life expectancy is no greater 
than 12 months. [AIDS is specifically excluded and not covered under this definition.]
I dont agree theres any grey areas or confusion around the wording used by Scottish 
Widows in either policy. In fact, the 1998 policy wording it adopted was less stringent than 
the model wording, as it doesnt rely on confirmation from an attending consultant. Moreover, 
the second wording is exactly what the ABI proposed, but without the exclusion for AIDS. 
So, for the purposes of Mrs D making a valid claim under the 1998 policy before 6 March 
2019 it requires, 1) evidence that the illness is incurable 2) that it is either advanced or 
rapidly progressing and 3) an opinion from Scottish Widows confirming a life expectancy of 
less than twelve months from November 2018  the point at which a claim was made.For the second policy, the 18-month period has not been reached. Otherwise the same 
requirements apply though the opinion at point 3) needs to also be from Mrs Ds consultant. 
Clearly Mrs Ds condition is incurable and this is not disputed by Scottish Widows. However, 
I dont believe the definition has been satisfied in full based on the information Ive seen.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D sent us detailed arguments explaining how the treating consultant 
gave Mrs D a verbal estimate for life expectancy in 2018 of less than twelve months. 
However, I dont agree that the fair way to look at the policy wording is to disregard any 
reasonable treatment a terminally ill person may have.  
The intent of a terminal illness payment is an advance payment of a policys death benefit, 
which is otherwise only payable if a policyholder passes away during the policy term. That is 
why it must be found that the policyholders condition is expected to lead to his or her death 
within twelve months to meet the policy definition. If a treatment could reasonably be 
undertaken with a view to prolonging a persons life, I dont believe its fair to disregard that. 
This is because a treatment option may have an impact on the illness being one that is 
advanced or rapidly progressing, as defined by the policy terms.
In my view, the definition ought to be read on the basis that that the policyholder is not likely 
going to survive for more than a further twelve months, irrespective of any reasonable 
treatment. The specifics contained in the definition are recorded in this way to account for 
the types of conditions which on diagnosis may be terminal insofar as being a lifelong or 
incurable illness which could sadly lead to death, but where life expectancies or disease 
progression could be altered - sometimes significantly - by prospective treatment. 
Im not saying that I think all available treatment options must be undertaken by a person 
with a terminal illness for the purposes of satisfying a terminal illness benefit claim. Each 
claim will depend on a policyholders specific condition and variables such as their
circumstances, the availability of any proposed treatment option, and the risks attached. It is 
a matter of choice for any claimant as to what, if any, available treatment is right for them. 
I do therefore think it fair for an insurer to ask a policyholders consultant about any 
treatment, therapy or management of a condition which could have an impact upon his or 
her life expectancy, and notably where that treatment has been agreed  as in Mrs Ds case.  
That is what has happened here. In the medical evidence from the time of Mrs Ds diagnosis, 
it is noted that we discussed the diagnosis of [type of cancer]. [Mrs D] and her family 
understand this is a malignant tumour which cannot be cured, however surgery together with 
chemotherapy and radiotherapy will try to keep this tumour under control for as long as 
possible.
The last treatment line undergone by Mrs D was her adjuvant chemotherapy, and this ended 
in February 2020. At that time, the consultant wrote that I saw [Mrs D] in clinic today, she 
completed 12 cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy and has had a restaging MRI, which I am 
pleased to say has shown completely stable appearances with no sign of any progression or 
issues within her tumour.  
Up to the report of March 2021, Mrs D has continued with scans every three months and the 
consultant confirmed she was currently stable with no evidence of recurrence.  
I dont believe Scottish Widows was obliged to have paid the claim under the 1998 policy 
before the expiry date in September 2019, though I am pleased to see it has made the ex-
gratia payment. At the time the terminal illness benefit ended, Mrs D was still undergoing 
treatment, and for the reasons Ive explained it was fair to await the outcome or potential impact of that treatment before it formed an opinion of her life expectancy based on the 
medical evidence.  
The consultants report of 1 March 2021 differs. At that time, the consultant was asked to 
give Mrs Ds life expectancy in light of her 2006 policy definition for terminal illness benefit. 
He set out life expectancy statistics for a patient with Mrs Ds condition. The difference by 
this time is that Mrs D had exhausted the treatment options and was under monitoring only 
without any progression of her disease. 
If Scottish Widows had not agreed to the claim as at that date, Id have expected it to clarify 
the consultants statement to determine if his assessment had been given in respect of any 
future treatment options, as this had not been answered on the report. Be that as it may, 
Scottish Widows settled the remaining claim in May 2021 and backdated it to the report date. 
My remit is to determine if a business has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
In this case, that means whether Scottish Widows has fairly interpreted the medical evidence 
before it when measuring that evidence against the terms of Mrs Ds insurance contracts. 
I have seen no objective evidence that either claim should have been settled sooner. 
Scottish Widows has agreed to a payment under the 1998 policy on a discretionary basis, 
where the policy wording required evidence at the date of notification in 2018  which in my 
view, was not present in the GP report or medical evidence. The discretionary payment was 
beyond the obligation that Scottish Widows had to Mrs D under her insurance terms.  
That isnt the case for the 2006 policy, as Mrs Ds circumstances had changed. Nonetheless, 
it seems to me that Scottish Widows took a fair approach on receipt of the medical report. 
To satisfy a claim in the opinion of the Chief Officer Scottish Widows would have needed 
clarification of any further steps the consultant could take with a view to prolonging Mrs Ds 
life. However, she had exhausted the planned treatment options and survived longer than 
the estimates set out by the consultant. It was therefore a pragmatic and reasonable 
response by Scottish Widows to pay the claim in those circumstances, noting as Ive said 
earlier that it was entitled to decide if it wishes to make discretionary claim payments. 
I dont believe that the 2006 policy claim could or should have been paid sooner than it was. 
The policy terms require Scottish Widows to admit a claim on receipt of proof that the 
wording has been met based on evidence it may reasonably require. Ive seen no objective 
evidence from Mrs D or her treating doctors to determine the policy wording was met before 
1 March 2022. I cannot agree that the claim was withheld or propose redress on that basis. 
I should finally note that I believe the payment of £250 to reflect the confusion Mr and Mrs D 
were caused when the critical illness claim was paid in 2019 was fair. Compensation of this 
nature awarded at this service is not intended to be punitive; instead it should reflect the 
upset or distress caused to a complainant by a business unfair actions or inactions. 
Scottish Widows rightly identified that it could have explained the differences between the 
types of claim to Mr and Mrs D in 2018 to aid their understanding; instead they had gone on 
to believe the three policies could be reviewed collectively, when this was not the case. The 
payment it made on this basis was a reasonable amount to reflect the impact of that error. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mrs D, Mr D and their family I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint for 
the reasons given above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman