DRN-4166333
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that a mortgage payment made to Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Birmingham Midshires (BM) only a matter of hours late, was recorded as a missed 
payment. Mr and Mrs W said that would impact them for years, and they wanted it removed.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr and Mrs W, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been with Mr W. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr W told us Mrs W makes a manual payment to their BM mortgage each month. The 
payment is due on the 28th of each month. Mr W said that in July 2022, Mrs W was no more 
than hours late making this payment, and he told us about the circumstances that caused 
this. Mr W said that the payment didnt register until 1 August, and because of this BM had 
recorded a missed payment on both their credit files. 
Mr W said he realised in December this had happened, and asked BM to remove the mark, 
but it wouldnt. Mr W said this was injurious and malicious. He told us about a previous 
negative experience with BM, and its clear that he feels very strongly about this. Mr W said 
that he and Mrs W were creditworthy, and he didnt think their credit rating should be 
affected for years over something as meaningless as this. He wanted BM to remove the 
offending mark from their credit files.
BM didnt agree. It said their payment, which was due on 28 July, wasnt received until 1 
August. BM said its obliged to report accurately how a mortgage account has been 
maintained by its customers. And it said it had correctly reported this to credit reference 
agencies, because no payment was received in July. BM has suggested they either pay by 
direct debit in future, or change the date their payment is due. 
Mr W wrote again, to say that what BM had done might be factually correct, but he didnt 
think it was fair. And he said that if BM could record a missed payment when theyd only 
missed by hours, he wanted to know why the following month didnt show two payments 
being made. He thought that would be fair. 
Mr W repeated that hed previously had a very poor experience with BM, and he thought 
having stood up to BM at the time meant he would have a mark on his mortgage. And he 
thought that borrowers in the current climate should be treated with some degree of 
compassion and empathy. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that BM needs to 
receive a monthly payment from Mr and Mrs W each month, and it hadnt received that 
payment in July 2022. So, whilst he said he was sympathetic to Mr and Mrs W, he didnt 
think BM had to remove this marker. He didnt think what it had done was a mistake, and BM 
does have to report accurate information about all its consumers at all times, so Mr and Mrs 
W hadnt been treated any differently.
Mr W replied to disagree. He said hed explained why he didnt pay by direct debit. And he 
said the outcome here wasnt fair and reasonable. He didnt think it could be fair and 
reasonable for someone to be affected for years over this. Because no agreement was 
reached, this case then came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr W feels very strongly about this issue, and indeed about BM more 
widely. So Im sorry to have to tell him that Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this 
complaint as our investigator. I dont think BM has to remove the negative mark on Mr and 
Mrs Ws credit files. 
Although I understand Mr W thinks BM would be singling him out, because of his previous 
experiences with it, Ive not seen anything at all here to make me think thats the case. Mr 
and Mrs Ws payment was due on 28 July. Theres no dispute that it wasnt paid then. And it 
wasnt received by BM until 1 August. So Mr and Mrs W just didnt make their monthly 
payment for July. That triggers an automated process, which records that missed payment 
on their credit files.
I appreciate that this was simply an oversight, and I understand how this happened, but I 
dont think that means BM should pretend it didnt happen. BM is, as it said, under an 
obligation to tell credit reference agencies how its customers are managing their accounts. 
Thats the agreement it has with those agencies, that it will provide honest and accurate 
information, and it means that in turn BM can rely on the information that other lenders 
provide, as an accurate assessment of how other lending is being managed.
Mr W said that if BM could record a missed payment one month, then it should also record 
two payments as being made in the following month. He thought that would be fair. But that 
is, in essence, what BM has recorded. Each month, what its actually telling the credit 
reference agencies isnt whether a payment has been missed, its actually whether Mr and 
Mrs W are a full monthly payment in arrears on their mortgage. 
As an example, I can see months where they have paid in part during the relevant month, 
then caught up in the following month. This happened in May 2022, and BM didnt report a 
missed payment, for that month, because they werent a full payment in arrears. 
So what was recorded for July 2022, was that Mr and Mrs W were a month in arrears on 
their mortgage at the end of July 2022. They then caught up with everything owed in August, 
and no arrears were reported then. That shows any future lenders that, although Mr and Mrs 
W didnt make their payment in July, they did then catch up in August. I think thats fair.
Mr W has told us he just doesnt think it can be fair and reasonable for BM to mark their 
credit files, which he expects will have very significant consequences for any lending in the 
next six years. But BM doesnt decide those consequences. It only provides the credit 
reference agencies with an accurate record of the payments made. Im sorry to have to tell 
Mr and Mrs W that I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for BM to have provided that 
accurate record, and I dont think it has to change this now. 
I know that Mr and Mrs W will be very disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman