DRN-3966980
The complaint
Mr R complains that DGS Independent Financial Advisers Limited (DGS) delayed the 
transfer of his two DB schemes to a personal pension. This caused the transfer values to 
reduce, and so the transfer was ultimately worth a lot less to him. And this has caused him 
financial difficulty. He thinks DGS should have passed on some transfer values sooner and 
the transfer would have gone ahead earlier. And then he wouldnt have suffered this loss. 
What happened
In August 2021 Mr R met with an adviser from DGS. This was to receive advice about his 
pension planning, and I understand in the main, to release some tax-free cash from his 
pensions. 
Mr R had two DB schemes, Ill call these DB1 and DB2. He also has some defined 
contribution (DC) scheme benefits as well.
  
Mr R received a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) for DB1 in August 2021, this was 
due to expire in November 2021. He received a CETV for DB2 in September 2021 and the 
expiry date for this was December 2021. 
DGS wasnt able to give Mr R advice to transfer his DB scheme benefits as it didnt hold the 
relevant regulatory permissions to do this. So, in September 2021 it referred Mr R to a third 
party Ill call Firm G, to give him advice on this part of his transfer arrangements. 
After gathering some information Firm G wrote to Mr R in March 2022 to say that it would 
give advice on this part of his circumstances. As the CETVs had expired Mr R needed to 
obtain up-to-date values. DGS paid for these (where needed). But the CETVs had fallen in 
value significantly.
 
I understand that in time Firm G recommended that Mr R shouldnt transfer his DB scheme 
benefits. But Mr R proceeded with the transfer on an insistent customer basis.
 
Mr R complained in 2022 to DGS about the delays in the transfer process and what he said 
was DGS part in this. 
DGS didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said that it didnt offer advice on the DB transfer 
aspect of Mr Rs circumstances. So, it was not responsible for any delays or losses he may 
have suffered due to this advice. 
Mr R referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said: 
Whilst the transfer process took a long time, this was a complicated situation and 
there werent any unreasonable delays by DGS.
Even if DGS had sent the CETVs to Firm G earlier, given the time the transfer took, 
they would have expired in any event. 
Mr R disagreed, saying:
DGS did delay the advice process with Firm G by not sending across information 
promptly. Firm G did not receive the CETVs until December 2021, after they had both 
expired. 
So, it was factual that DGS sent the CETVs late to Firm G. This resulted in his loss of 
£56,884. 
He thinks that if DGS has responded in a timely manner to Firm G then his CETVs 
would not have expired, and he would not have suffered this loss.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill firstly say that Mr R has provided a significant amount of information. I wont refer to much 
of this here as both parties are aware of it, and Im able to say why I have reached a 
decision about this complaint without referring to all of the detail. Ive concentrated on the 
main issues of Mr Rs complaint. 
But I have looked at everything that Mr R has sent. With particular emphasis on the (email) 
correspondence that Mr R provided between him, DGS and Firm G. And his detailed 
response to our Investigators opinion which he sent to us on 11 January 2023. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint for broadly the same reasons 
as our investigator. Ill explain why. 
As both parties are aware Firm G gave Mr R advice about his DB pension transfer. So, it is 
primarily responsible for this advice, and the time taken to action and process the transfer. 
That said I can see that some of the information it relied on was provided to Firm G by DGS. 
And the crux of this complaint is that Mr R says that DGS delayed providing crucial 
information, that is the transfer values. By the time it had done this the CETVs had expired. 
When new CETVs were calculated they were much lower. Mr R says he has lost the 
difference. 
Given that Firm G was the advising business here, to uphold this complaint, it needs to be 
shown that DGS did materially delay the transfer process. And that it wasnt possible for 
Firm G to have done anything different itself to avoid this. And it also needs to be clear that if 
DGS had acted correctly then Mr R wouldnt have suffered this loss. In this specific case it 
needs to be shown that if DGS had provided the CETVs sooner to Firm G then the transfer 
would have completed using the higher guaranteed values.
 
Mr R met with DGS in August 2021 to receive advice on his pension planning. It said it 
asked for transfer values in respect of his DB schemes so it could give him holistic advice. 
That is, whilst it couldnt advise on a DB transfer, it wanted to consider his total pension 
entitlements so it could give advice, where it had the relevant permissions, based on a 
complete picture of Mr Rs circumstances. 
When it determined that Mr R wanted to transfer his DB scheme entitlements, it referred him 
to Firm G to assist with this. This was around a month after they first met, and I dont think 
there was a material delay up to this point. DGS say they sent a copy of their file to Firm G and this firm started its advice process. 
From the emails provided it seems that Firm G would ask for information, and DGS would 
obtain this. There were several outstanding items that DGS was asked to provide, which it 
did it in time. I can also see that it contacted Firm G for updates regularly. 
But as Ive outlined above, the time taken for the transfer was really down to Firm G. It was 
the advising business here. And whilst the time from when DGS sent its file in late 
September 2021, to when Firm B formally started the advice process, on 31 March 2022 
was reasonably long. I havent seen any material delays on the part of DGS. 
At the heart of Mr Rs complaint is that he thinks if DGS had sent the CETVs straight away 
then Firm G would have completed the transfer process much sooner, and before they 
expired in November 2021 for DB1 and December 2021 for DB2. 
But a DB transfer is a very complicated process. There is a significant amount of rules and 
regulations that surround this kind of transaction, largely because they are rarely in a 
consumers best interests. Firm G would have needed to undertake significant amount of 
research, perform detailed calculations, and provide the outcome of these to Mr R as part of 
the advice process. All of this takes time. And the three to six month timeframe that Firm G 
gave to Mr R when it started the full advice process wasnt unusual or unreasonable. I 
understand (I dont have the exact date) that the transfer took around six months after Firm 
Gs activation date in March 2022. 
So even if DGS had provided the CETVs to Firm G immediately, I dont think there was a 
reasonable prospect that the transfer would have completed before the expiry date of the 
first CETVs. There was only around two months before the DB1 CETV would expire. I dont 
think this was enough time, given what I know about how the transfer progressed, for Firm G 
to properly advise Mr R. So, I dont think the need for new CETVs could have been avoided 
here. And it follows that even if DGS had acted differently then I dont think its reasonable to 
say the transfer would have proceeded with the higher transfer values. 
It is unfortunate that CETVs fell sharply over the time the transfer was taking place. And this 
is one of the inherent risks transferring a DB scheme. Im sure it was a difficult decision for 
Mr R as to whether he proceed or not, this no doubt caused him some distress. 
But I dont think this was due to any, action or inaction, of DGS. So, Im not upholding Mr Rs 
complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman