DRN-2496515
The complaint
 Mrs B complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (Home Retail)  trading as  
Argos Card didnt uphold her section 75 claim in relation to a faulty laptop, she would like it 
upheld.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Home Retail accepted our investigators recommendation to refund Mrs B the cost of 
her computer including interest on this sum. And to cover the cost of repairs and 
postage to return the computer.
Mrs B remains unhappy that she had to chase up the interest, postage and repair 
costs. Also, that the refund for the computer was initially a credit to her account which 
was then withdrawn and replaced by a cheque. She said this caused her some 
confusion and some inconvenience.
Home Retail has explained it followed its due process in crediting Mrs Bs account 
with the refund then withdrawing this and sending a cheque instead. But I cant see 
that this process was ever explained to Mrs B. And I think most consumers would 
think once a refund had been made that was the end of the matter.
Mrs B feels that she lost out financially as she used the credit to her account for 
some buy now pay later (bnpl) purchases. She says when the credit was withdrawn, 
she had to pay off the balance immediately to avoid paying interest. I dont agree Mrs 
B has lost out finically, under bnpl terms interest payments are only due if the bnpl 
balance isnt paid off when due. Mrs B made her purchases on 18 July 2020, the 
cheque was issued to her just a few days later 21 July 2020. So, she had no need to 
pay off her balance at that point to avoid interest. 
I do feel Mrs B has been put to some inconvenience,  I think it would be appropriate 
for Home Retail to pay Mrs B £50 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Home Retail 
Group Card Services Limited (Home Retail)  trading as  Argos Card should pay Mrs B £50 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman