DRN-2556415
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt provide him with the overall interest rate on his 
account. 
What happened
Mr L holds a current account with Lloyds. He pays in £1,500 each month to receive 
preferential interest rates. In July 2020, he received a letter to tell him that, from October 
2020, the rates would be changing. It provided information about the new interest rate that 
would apply to each part of the balance. It said that, for balances of £1 to £3,999, the interest 
would be 0.6% and for balances of £4,000 to £5,000, the interest would be 1.5%. No interest 
would be paid on any part of the balance over £5,000.
Mr L contacted Lloyds to ask for the overall rate so that he could compare accounts but said 
that it refused to do this. Lloyds said that it wasnt able to provide this information as it 
doesnt apply a combined rate. 
Mr L said he doesnt want Lloyds to apply the combined rate  he just wanted to know what 
it would be. He feels Lloyds is being obstructive and is impacting his ability to make an 
informed decision about where to put his money. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. She didnt think Lloyds did anything wrong by not 
providing this information, as it doesnt apply a combined rate. So she didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr L disagreed. He doesnt think Lloyds is being honest or truthful and maintains that its 
being obstructive. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this may come as a disappointment to Mr L, I dont uphold this complaint  Ill 
explain why.
The question I have to ask here is whether Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably by not 
providing the information Mr L has requested. And, if so, whether Mr L has been caused any 
detriment. 
Looking at the letter that Lloyds sent to Mr L, I think it provides very clear information on 
what the new rates would be. But there isnt an overall rate as such  it depends entirely on 
the balance of the account. And the letter sets out what rate would apply to each part of that 
balance. 
Im satisfied that, while it may not have been difficult for Lloyds to have calculated the 
amount of interest Mr L could expect to receive on the full balance of £5,000  and the 
equivalent interest rate  it provided sufficient information for this to be calculated. So I cant 
fairly say that its withheld information from Mr L, or been obstructive. All the required 
information was available to Mr L in the letter notifying him of the changes. Lloyds wasnt 
providing, or required to provide, advice about where Mr L would receive the best return on 
his money. So it would be for Mr L to determine whether an alternative account would be 
more beneficial to him. 
I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr L but, taking everything into account, I dont 
think Lloyds is required to provide further information about the interest rate and I dont think 
it would be fair to say its done something wrong here. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman