DRN-1770442
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) didnt provide her with 
a loan at the rate advertised
What happened
Mrs C applied for a loan of £13,000 from M&S. The advertised rate, and the rate she applied 
for, was 2.9% APR. M&S granted Mrs C the loan but for an interest rate of 5.9% APR. Mrs C 
contacted M&S to find out why this was. Over the phone, M&S explained the factors that its 
underwriters took into account when agreeing to lend. Mrs C felt she met the criteria and 
there wasnt a reason for her to have been given a higher interest rate.
Mrs C complained and M&S explained its reason for granting the loan on a higher rate. It 
said this was because Mrs C didnt have any active credit at the time. Mrs C felt this was 
unfair as she manages her finances well and has done for many years. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. He explained that the advertised rates for 
loans arent guaranteed. And he explained M&S is entitled to make its own decision to lend 
based on its own criteria. So, it hadnt done anything wrong in offering Mrs C the loan at a 
higher rate.
Mrs C disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. She felt 
her years of employment history, good character and credit rating had been overlooked. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Cs frustrations about not getting the interest rate she applied for. She 
doesnt have any other debt and says shes always made her repayments on time. So, I can 
understand why she felt shed get the best possible rate. But there are a number of criteria 
that lenders look at when deciding to lend. And thats the case here.
M&S has an obligation to lend responsibly, and there are certain things it needs to do ensure 
it complies with this obligation. For M&S, it looks at each individual application against its 
criteria and makes a decision on whether to lend, and at what rate. Thats what it has done 
here. It decided that it would lend the £13,000 to Mrs C, at a rate of 5.9%.
It isnt the role of this service to tell M&S who it should lend to, and at what rate. We are here 
to look at whether something has gone wrong in each individual case that comes to us. And 
in this case, I dont think M&S has done anything wrong. Its entitled to decide who it will lend 
to and at what rate. And I cant see that it has done this unfairly here. It has made a decision 
based on its own lending criteria. So, I wont be asking it to do anything differently.When Mrs C asked why she was given a higher interest rate than she applied for, M&S gave 
her the reason. It didnt need to do this but I can see that it did so Mrs C is aware of all the 
circumstances. So, I dont think its acted unfairly.
I can understand why Mrs C thinks M&S has ignored her good character and employment 
history. But Im persuaded that M&S has taken into account all the relevant information it 
needed to when it made a decision to lend to Mrs C. So, I dont think it has done anything 
wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman