DRN-2060814
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycards refusal to refund her 
as she has requested.
Mrs S is represented by her daughter in her complaint. But for ease of reading, I have 
referred to all submissions from Mrs Ss representative as being made by Mrs S.
What happened
In December 2017 Mrs S purchased two televisions from a department store. Both 
televisions are the same make and model. She used her credit card provided by Barclaycard 
to pay, in part. Mrs S tells us she lives between two homes. In one of the residences she 
lives in the entire house, in the other she lives in a self-contained annexe at her daughters 
home. She also tells us she bought one television for each of her residences.
In May 2019 Mrs Ss daughter turned on the television in the annexe, only to find that the 
screen was cracked. Mrs S called the retailer who refused to help on the basis it thought the 
crack was caused by misuse rather than a manufacturing fault. Mrs S therefore wants 
Barclaycard to take responsibility instead.
Mrs S relies on Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (Section 75). Section 75 says, 
amongst other things, that in certain circumstances if the debtor has, in relation to a 
transaction financed by a credit agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect of a 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract, then she has a like claim against the credit 
provider. The transaction financed by the credit agreement here is the purchase of the 
television using Mrs Ss credit card.
Mrs S suggests Barclaycard is liable because she thinks there has been both a 
misrepresentation and breach of contract. Specifically, she tells us that the retailer 
misrepresented the televisions as being safe to use on a stand, they were displayed on a 
television stand in the shop. Plus, she was not told by anyone before she bought the 
televisions that it was not safe to use the televisions with a stand and she thinks she should 
have been. In addition, the televisions were sold with a stand but not wall brackets. But, she 
suggests that in a call the retailers technical department, it said the televisions could only be 
used without risking damage, if mounted on a wall. In addition, she suggests that the 
televisions are not fit for purpose so therefore they are not of satisfactory quality and this is a 
breach of contract.
Further, Mrs S rejects the idea that the damage was caused by misuse as the crack is solely 
on the inside of the screen not the outside.
For all of these reasons Mrs S requires Barclaycard to refund her the total amount she paid 
for both of the televisions.
Barclaycard didnt agree it had a case to answer here. Firstly, because it did not agree that 
Mrs S was the contracting party, in relation to the television kept at the annexe. And in any 
event, it thought the problem with the crack had arisen so long after the televisions had been 
bought that it would be unable to determine what caused the fault. It followed that it did not 
agree to refund Mrs S for the entire amount she had paid for both televisions.
Dissatisfied, Mrs S came to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ss complaint. He didnt recommend upholding it.
It appears Barclaycard accepted the recommendation, Mrs S did not. 
Mrs S asks that an ombudsman take a fresh look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I think relevant law here includes both Section 75 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA) which I will talk more about later.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Ss complaint, I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law (as I have already 
said). Therefore, Ive taken it into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the 
same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs S pursued a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts.
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship
As I have already mentioned, the general effect of Section 75 is that if a consumer has a 
claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against the suppliers she can also bring 
that claim against the finance provider provided certain conditions are met. 
One of these conditions is that there must be a very specific relationship in place that is a 
valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship.
Mrs S tells us now that the second television was bought for her to use in her annexe 
residence. This explanation contradicts somewhat what she said initially to Barclaycard 
which suggested the television was bought for her daughters household not her own she 
said I have been told by the technical agent that this TV's screen is so paper thin that it 
cannot withstand any type of pressure; not cleaning with some pressure to buff out the finger 
prints nor even for some unfortunate customers, taking it out of its box! So therefore, 
knowing my daughter has a young growing family, such a caveat on its use is not fit for her 
needs.  
However, the key point here is not who was meant to benefit from the second television. It is 
about who the contracting party was in relation to the purchase of the second television. In 
principle there is no difficulty in law with a situation whereby a person A contracts with 
another person B to provide goods for the use to a third party C.  Even if Mrs S did buy the television for her daughter that would not prevent her, Mrs S from being the contracting 
party.
That said I dont think I need to make a finding about the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship 
regarding the second television because it will make no difference to the outcome here. I say 
this because Mrs S did buy two televisions and there is no dispute that there is a valid 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in relation to first television. But I would only be able to 
uphold her complaint about either television if there had been a misrepresentation and or a 
breach of contract and I dont agree there has been either. Ill explain my reasoning below.
I recognise that Mrs S suggests that Barclaycard are no longer disputing the points about 
misrepresentation and breach of contract. I dont agree that is so. She points to its second 
final response letter in this regard. But I dont read the letter in the way she does. I think it 
was saying there was no point in looking at these questions any further given it thought there 
was no valid debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement. But it had indicated in its first final 
response letter what its stance was, as I mentioned above.
misrepresentation
In this context misrepresentation means a false statement of fact that induced Mrs S to enter 
into the contract.
Mrs S says the television was displayed on a stand in the shop. If that was so, and 
Barclaycard does not appear to be disputing this, then I agree that the retailer was 
representing that the television could be used on a stand and did not have to be wall 
mounted.
However, the difficulty is, the only information I have got that this is a false statement of fact, 
is Mrs Ss opinion and what she tells us the technician told her on the phone, thats simply 
not enough. Id need information from an impartial expert to make a finding about this. Mrs S 
is neither impartial nor an expert. An unattributable comment from an unidentified person 
albeit a person who works in a technical role, who seemingly made this comment in passing 
is not enough. I dont even have the exact wording that this technical person said I just have 
Mrs Ss report of it, which may not be entirely accurate. I recognise that Mrs S suggests this 
is enough, but I dont see it that way. In other words, I dont have sufficient information to 
come to a finding that the television could not be used safely on a television stand.
For all of these reasons I dont agree that its fair and reasonable to say that Barclaycard 
ought to take responsibility because there was a relevant misrepresentation.
breach of contract 
The law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality 
of the goods is satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
Mrs S has talked about durability and I agree with her durability is a relevant circumstance in 
relation to a television. 
That said, although I accept that one of the televisions has a crack. What caused it is not 
clear Mrs S suggests its an inherent fault because the television is not fit for purpose. The 
retailer suggests, thats not so, the crack is due to misuse. Nothing seems to have gone 
wrong with television one. But Mrs Ss point seems to be if television two is not of 
satisfactory quality neither is television one.
But again, what Ive got here is two opposing views either one of which could potentially be 
correct. But what I dont have is one impartial expert view that shows on balance the television is not fit for purpose so not of satisfactory quality. Without that Ive not got enough 
to go on to make a finding about this.
It follows that I cant fairly and reasonably find that there has been a breach of contract. It 
also therefore follows that I have no proper basis for asking Barclaycard to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman