DRN-2626830
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as O have complained that HDI Global SE unfairly turned down their 
business interruption insurance claim after they were forced to close due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
Mr N, a director of O, has brought the complaint to us on Os behalf. 
What happened
O hold a business interruption insurance policy with HDI. They claimed on their policy after 
they were required to close due to the Governments actions in response to Covid-19. 
 
HDI said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a notifiable 
disease at the premises, O had closed as a result of the Government Act in response to the 
national pandemic. As O hadnt indicated that there had been a case of Covid-19 at their 
premises, HDI turned down their claim.
 
O were unhappy with HDIs response and brought the complaint to our service. They felt the 
policy should cover their claim, because the closure was caused by a notifiable disease. 
 
Our investigator looked into Os complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
HDI had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He thought 
the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at the 
premises. And as O hadnt indicated there had been a case of Covid-19 at the premises, the 
claim wasnt covered.  
 
O asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said it was likely that someone would have had 
a case of Covid-19 if they hadnt been forced to close. They also said that given the 
prevalence of Covid-19, it was likely there had been an occurrence at the premises but 
wouldnt be able to prove it due to a lack of testing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
O. But, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if HDI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Os claim.  
 
The most relevant part of Os policy covers interruption or interference of Os business in 
consequence of: 
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the 
approval of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a 
result of a Notifiable Human Disease occurring at the Premises
The policy defines Notifiable Human Disease as:
An illness sustained by any person caused by
a) food or drink poisoning 
b) any human infectious or contagious disease
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease but I dont think this extension covers Os claim. I say that 
because the policy requires the closure or restrictions on Os premises to have arisen as a 
result of a notifiable human disease occurring at the premises. 
I appreciate that Os closure is likely to have prevented Covid-19 occurring at their premises, 
however the policy would only provide cover where there had been a case of Covid-19 at the 
premises. O havent identified anyone on their premises having Covid-19. They have said 
that given the prevalence of Covid-19, its likely there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at their 
premises. But I dont think the prevalence of Covid-19 in general is enough for me to fairly 
conclude its most likely there was an occurrence at Os premises. Also, while there was 
limited testing at the time O havent provided any other evidence to suggest anyone at their 
premises had Covid-19. As I havent seen enough to persuade me there was most likely an 
occurrence of Covid-19 at Os premises, I dont think this extension covers their claim. 
  
I appreciate this isnt the outcome O were hoping for but, having considered this matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask HDI to pay their claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman