DRN-3655129
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mishandled his request 
for a chargeback and failed to respond fully to several letters.
What happened
In September Mr H bought goods using his Barclaycard. The cost was €840 which came to 
£742.08 including a non-sterling transaction fee of £21.54. He returned the goods and asked 
the retailer for a refund as he was entitled to do. He first notified the retailer of his intention to 
return the goods on 3 October 2021 and the return was made 25 October.
No refund was received and Mr H contacted Barclays. He says he wrote on 13 November 
and after receiving no response he notified the bank of his chargeback claim on 8 
December. He did so using an online form which he says turned the sum on his credit card 
record red. Barclays process requires that the form be printed and posted. Mr H says he 
submitted this with an accompanying letter which requested the matter be resolved by a 
chargeback or other. He included his letter of 13 November. Mr H also asked for a variation 
in his credit limit between his Barclays accounts.
Barclays says it received a letter from Mr H on 30 December and it processed the 
chargeback in early January. Mr H complained and Barclays agreed that it could have 
handled the matter better and credited his account with £25 compensation. Mr H had asked 
for compensation of £250 or more and he didnt accept Barclays response and brought his 
complaint to this service.  
It was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He agreed 
that there had been some delay by Barclays given the online submission made on 8 
December though he noted Barclays internal record which showed no record of the letters 
being received until 30 December. 
Mr H didnt agree and referenced other issues he had with the bank. He also said his query 
about his credit limits had been ignored. He explained in some detail the process he had 
gone through on 8 December and how the bank would have been aware of his chargeback 
claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award redress where appropriate. I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have the power to make rules for financial businesses or 
to punish them.
I want to assure Mr H, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I 
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But, 
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
Mr H first contacted Barclays by a letter he sent on 13 November, but the bank has no 
record of receiving this until a copy was sent. As such I cannot say that it failed to act on 
something it didnt receive. I acknowledge that it may have been received but not acted on 
for some reason, but I am satisfied that the internal records show the first contact as being 
30 December. However, I cannot say with any certainty if the letter was not delivered or it 
was and not acted on.
The second contact was on 8 December when Mr H competed an online form which he has 
confirmed created a digital footprint within the Barclays system. I have no reason to doubt 
this, but as Mr H has explained Barclays require that the form be printed and submitted with 
accompanying documentation if appropriate. Mr H has explained that this is what he did and 
it was noted as being received by the bank on 30 December.
However, I do not believe the bank was required to act on the electronic submission alone. 
That was only part of the designated process and I am sure that there will be some 
customers who complete the online form but do not provide a paper copy. As such I do not 
consider it is reasonable to expect Barclays to have acted on the online submission without 
receiving the paper copy. It did act on the paper version and accompanying letters and a full 
refund was made in January.
I accept this meant there was a delay in the final credit being given, but it would appear from 
what Mr H says his account was credited while the matter was resolved and he did not lose 
out financially as the full payment was credited to his account. I agree some compensation is 
due for the short delay and I think the £25 offered by the bank is fair.
I note that the bank has not responded to his request for a variation in his credit limit 
between his two accounts as set out in his letter of 8 December. I would ask that the bank do 
so without delay.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has already made an offer to pay £25 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should pay £25 and 
respond to his request for a variation in his credit limits for his two accounts.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman