DRN-4374107
The complaint
Mr A complains that Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt refunded him after he fell victim to a scam whilst 
trying to buy a watch.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision for Mr As complaint on 7 September 2023. Ive copied this 
below as both parties have now responded.
Mr A came into contact with a person through social media who said they could secure 
luxury watches for customers at a discount and skipping some otherwise lengthy waitlists 
for such items. This person, who Ill refer to as Mr H, said they could do so because they 
worked at a luxury department store.
Mr A was interested in buying a particular watch and made arrangements with Mr H to 
transfer funds for the purchase. Mr A sent money from other accounts and made two 
faster payments of £2,000 each from his Monzo account.
Mr A has provided some screenshots of messages between him and Mr H. In these Mr H 
mentions that to hand over the watch hed need to wait until his manager was away. Mr A 
kept chasing for an exchange date but was ultimately blocked by Mr H and he never 
received the watch. And so Mr A contacted Monzo to say hed been scammed.
Monzo investigated but said it wouldnt be refunding Mr A. It said hed not done enough to 
check Mr H was a legitimate seller. Unhappy with this response Mr A contacted our 
service and one of our investigators looked into what had happened.
He recommended the complaint be upheld in part, with Mr A receiving a refund of 50% of 
the second payment. That recommendation was made on the basis that he believed Mr A 
had a fair and reasonable claim under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code.
Monzo isnt a signatory to the CRM Code, but it has agreed to assess scam complaints 
under its principles. Our investigator said that, whilst he agreed Mr A lacked a reasonable 
basis for believing he was making a legitimate purchase through a legitimate party, Monzo 
ought to have provided a scam warning that met the standards set out in the Code. He 
said that ought to have presented when Mr A made the second payment of £2,000.
Mr A accepted the outcome, but Monzo did not. It reaffirmed its position around Mr As 
lack of reasonable basis for belief. Monzo also said it believed the warnings it gave were 
sufficient in the circumstances, and Mr A ignored them.
Monzo also questioned the legitimacy of the purchase as a whole, as it seemed something 
underhand was going on. It pointed to the messages from Mr H and the need for his 
manager to absent from the store, suggesting the purchase was nefarious in nature.
The case has been passed to me as an agreement between parties hasnt been reached.
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr A has lost money here. Ive little doubt that he was tricked by Mr H, 
and it seems more likely than not Mr A was never going to receive what he thought he was 
paying for. But I dont find Monzo has acted unfairly in declining Mr As claim under the 
principles of the CRM Code and deciding not to refund his loss.
Much of the discussion about whether Mr As scam claim ought to be upheld has to date 
been around the exceptions to reimbursement set out in the CRM Code. In most 
circumstances a victim of a scam ought to be refunded under the Code. But a business 
can choose to rely on one or more of the exceptions set out in the Code. The two that 
have been discussed as relevant to Mr As complaint are:
whether Mr A ignored an effective warning given by Monzo at the time he made the 
payments; and
whether Mr A held a reasonable basis for believing he was making a legitimate 
purchase through a legitimate party.
But before those questions are answered, its first necessary to consider whether the claim 
is within the scope of the Code. I dont find that it is as it doesnt meet the definition of an 
APP scam.
The Code defines an APP scam as:
Authorised Push Payment scam, that is, a transfer of funds executed across Faster 
Payments, CHAPS or an internal book transfer, authorised by a Customer in accordance 
with regulation 67 of the PSRs, where:
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or
(ii)The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
Mr A did make faster payments and they were properly authorised in accordance with 
regulation 67 of the PSRs. So that part of the definition is met. The issue arises in 
considering point (ii) of the definition. Here it says that the payment must have been made 
by the customer (Mr A) for what they believed were legitimate purposes.
Im not satisfied that Mr A was making a legitimate purpose and Im also satisfied he ought 
to have recognised that. I can accept that Mr A might have fully believed the purchase was 
going to go through. But thats not the point here. There were clearly signs that the 
purchase was not above board.
Even taken at face value, Mr H was clearly abusing a position he claimed to be in and was 
employing deceitful means against his employer to secure goods for people for personal 
gain. Essentially the evidence suggests there was a form of theft involved. Theres also 
evidence to suggest Mr A himself intended to then make personal gains from the resale of 
the watch he believed he was buying.
I have considered this carefully along with what Mr A has told us about the purchase and 
his circumstances. I wont go over those in full here but, in summary, Mr A hasnt provided 
persuasive evidence to support that the purchase was being made legitimately. Im satisfied 
Mr A would not have thought he was making a payment for a legitimate purpose, even if he 
had his own reasons and personal circumstances for doing so.
As I dont believe the circumstances here satisfy the definition of an APP scam the 
payments made by Mr A dont fall within scope of the Code. And so Monzo has acted fairly 
and reasonably in declining his claim, even if it might have explained different reasons for 
doing so before. And Im not persuaded there are any other reasons it ought to refund Mr 
A.This is not to say that I dont believe Mr A has been tricked or that he hasnt lost money. 
Its to say that arent grounds on which I can say Monzo ought to reimburse him.
I know Mr A has received refunds from other banks he sent funds from. But that fact doesnt 
alter my findings here.
Monzo replied to say it had nothing further to add.
Mr A didnt accept the provisional decision. He said:
I do not agree with your decision and I do not think that you have made a fair decision.
Firstly, I would like to highlight that being exploited is something that can become hard to 
overcome or at the point of the time hard to realise. So to say Mr A ignored warning is 
wrong to say when you do not understand the pressure faced by these scammers. As well 
as this police are currently dealing with this matter and there are 7 other victims subject to 
this fraud from the same person. How can that not be enough evidence. There is also a 
hearing at court and police have stated that the scammer is on bail meanwhile.
I was tricked and groomed into paying up the money, so I would appreciate if you could 
look into this again and at least allow 50% of the payments please.
I would also suggest if you need further evidence to speak to the police who are dealing 
with this matter so you can understand how many people this scammer has taken money 
from and how they have been exploited. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr A has said following the provisional decision but Im not 
persuaded to change the outcome. 
I said in my provisional decision that I didnt doubt Mr A had been tricked by Mr H and I know 
hes lost money. He has been a victim here and I do sympathise with him. Ive also no doubt 
that the police are involved and dealing with the matter. 
But my reasons for not upholding his complaint were clearly set out in my provisional 
decision and hes not provided new evidence or information that would make me reach a 
different outcome. Mr A has asked that we contact the police for further information. But I 
cant see how that could change things and my reasons for not upholding the complaint 
would remain the same, even if there were concrete evidence showing Mr H was a 
scammer. Thats because its Mr As own actions that mean his complaint isnt being upheld, 
rather than those of someone else.
Mr A has referred to ignoring an effective warning in his response to the provisional decision. 
That is a potential exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code, but its not a reason 
Ive given for the outcome Ive reached. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 Ben Murray
Ombudsman