DRN-4144710
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(trading as Cashplus Bank) wont refund payments it didnt make.
Mr K, who is a director of R, brings the complaint on Rs behalf. Mrs K is also a director of R, 
who Ill refer to in the decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
Cashplus hasnt disputed this concerns unauthorised payments. However, in line with 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund them because it asserts 
R failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep its 
personalised security details safe. 
To support that, its pointed out how Mrs K shared a one-time passcode (OTP) with a 
third party and approved a new trusted device on the account. 
Ive reflected on the circumstances that led to these actions. Looking at Rs records, 
it received a text message that appeared to come from Cashplus  it referenced a 
request to update the phone number on Rs account and said someone would be in 
touch shortly. Mrs K then answered a call which similarly appeared to come from 
Cashpluss number  she recalled they knew some personal information, like her 
name and address. 
Taking this all into account  how the communication appeared and the information 
they knew  I can see why she was persuaded they were calling from Rs genuine 
bank. I think lots of people wouldve been in these circumstances. 
Mrs K said she was told Rs account had been compromised and to fix that, shed 
need to reset its online banking using a link theyd send her by text, which 
subsequently appeared to come from Cashplus. Mrs K followed this, and when 
prompted, she entered an OTP received by text message. It seems she must have 
also enabled a new device to be trusted as part of the process.
Im mindful of the plausible and alarming situation the caller created for why Mrs K 
needed to follow their instructions, and the sophisticated steps they used to trick her 
into handing over the information they needed, like the fake Cashplus link in a 
spoofed message. In these deceptive circumstances, I can understand how Mrs K 
took the steps she did. And when I also consider Mrs Ks belief she was talking with 
Rs genuine bank, Im not persuaded Cashplus has shown she acted with very 
significant carelessness to conclude she failed with gross negligence.
In saying that, Ive noted Cashpluss point that Mrs K wasnt permitted to talk to 
Cashplus about Rs account at the time  so this call shouldve rung alarm bells. But 
its not clear she knew that at the time. And as a director of R, I can see how it didnt 
concern her that Rs bank was speaking with her. So this doesnt change my mind. 
It follows that, in line with the PSRs, I dont consider R can be fairly held liable for 
these unauthorised payments and Cashplus needs to put things right  by refunding 
the remaining losses from the payments. 
Cashplus should have restored Rs account much sooner. So I also award 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of the unauthorised payments to the date of 
settlement to compensate it for the time its been out of pocket. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Rs complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
must:
Pay R the total of the unauthorised payments, less any amount recovered or 
refunded. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman