DRN-4011467
The complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) changed his debit card, from 
a Visa debit, to a Mastercard debit card with a contactless facility. He wants the contactless 
facility removed. 
What happened
Mr P banks with NatWest. The account he holds previously came with a Visa debit card. In 
2022, NatWest wrote to all of their customers to explain that they would be changing their 
card scheme from Visa to Mastercard. And following this, Mr P was sent a new debit card 
that included a contactless payment facility. 
Mr P complained. He said he was unhappy with NatWests decision to change the card 
scheme to Mastercard before his existing card expired, and he didnt want a contactless 
facility on the card. He also said he didnt receive any prior notification of the change. 
NatWest responded and explained that they wrote to all customers informing them of the 
upcoming change from Visa debit to Mastercard debit, and explained that the new card 
would have a new design and would be contactless by default. They also explained that as 
well as all new account cards, replacement cards and renewal debit cards being contactless; 
that as part of the bank wide project, all Visa cards would need to be moved to Mastercard 
by the second half of 2023. They said that Mr Ps new card was issued as part of this bank 
wide initiative. They did explain however, that Mr P was able to turn off the contactless 
facility using NatWests mobile banking app, should he not want to use it. 
Unhappy with this, Mr P brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Mr Ps complaint but didnt recommend it was upheld. He said he 
was satisfied that NatWest had informed all customers of the relevant changes to the card 
scheme. And he was also satisfied that theyd made it clear how Mr P could disable the 
contactless facility on his card using their mobile app, should he not wish to use it. 
He further noted that, as of February 2023, NatWests front-line colleagues could now 
support customers with matters relating to the contactless features and limits. And that Mr P 
could now either call NatWest to discuss this, or attend a branch if he was uncomfortable 
using the app to make these changes.
But Mr P remained unhappy, and while he confirmed he was now aware of how the 
contactless facility could be turned off, he still wanted a new card that didnt contain the 
contactless logo. But NatWest explained that, unfortunately, this wasnt possible. 
So, as Mr P remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks, from time to time, may make wholesale changes to their products or services, this is 
not unusual. This is set out in the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account. Those terms state 
that NatWest can make changes to their agreement if they have a valid reason. That could, 
for example, be to reflect changes in the systems, schemes or suppliers they use. In this 
case, NatWest were making a wholesale change to their card scheme, so Im satisfied their 
terms allow them to do so. 
Mr P has argued that he wasnt notified of the change. But NatWest have explained that they 
sent a notice of variation to all customers. And I think its unlikely Mr P wouldve been left off 
of such an update, given that it went to all customers that held a Visa debit card. Equally, as 
this was a wholesale change, there never was an option to retain the existing card. So, I 
think even if Mr P did not receive the notification, he wouldve always been issued with this 
type of card. Overall, I cant see that Mr P has experienced any losses as a result of this.
I can also see that NatWest have now provided Mr P with a number of ways that he can 
contact them in order to turn off the contactless facility. This includes turning it off himself 
using the NatWest mobile app; by calling NatWests helpline; or by visiting a branch. On 
balance, I think this is a fair resolution to Mr Ps concerns. 
And, while I appreciate Mr P would rather the card did not have the contactless symbol on 
the front, NatWest have explained that they no longer offer non-contactless cards. And they 
are unable to make amendments to individual cards, as all their cards have the same plastic 
template. So, while Mr P can disable the contactless functionality, the contactless logo must 
remain. On the whole, I dont think this is unreasonable. 
So, while I appreciate this may come as disappointment to Mr P, I hope Ive been able to 
explain clearly why Ive reached this decision  but, for the reasons set out above, I wont be 
asking NatWest to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman