DRN-2595382
The complaint
Mr E has complained about the final settlement offer Southern Rock Insurance Company 
paid him after he made a claim on his commercial vehicle insurance policy after his van was 
stolen. Reference to Southern Rock includes its agents.
What happened
Mr E holds a commercial vehicle policy with Southern Rock. After his van was stolen he 
made a claim to Southern rock which it accepted and paid him £11,130  minus the policy 
excess.
Mr E didnt think the amount Southern Rock offered him was fair and complained to 
Southern Rock. He said he couldnt replace the van for that amount of money.
Southern Rock didnt change its offer. It said the most it would pay was the market value of 
his van. And it thought its offer was a fair representation of the market value of his van.
Mr E brought his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it and didnt think it 
should be upheld. He thought Southern Rocks offer of £11,130  minus the policy excess- 
was a fair offer based on what the trade guides valued Mr Es van at.
Mr E disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision, and so the case has been passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint. I understand this wont be the answer 
he was hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning below.
Mr Es policy says the most Southern Rock will pay on any claim is the market value of his 
van. It defines market value as The cost of replacing Your Vehicle in the United Kingdom 
with one of a similar type and condition.
Southern Rock has said £11,140 represents the market value of Mr Es van as this is within 
the range of the valuations provided by the trade guides. Mr E said he cant get another van 
for that price and has provided adverts to show similar vans for around £13,000 plus VAT, so 
he thinks Southern Rock should increase its offer.
My role isnt to value Mr Es van. My role it to decide whether or not I think Southern Rocks 
offer to settle his claim is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And Im satisfied it is.
Determining the market value of a van isnt an exact science. Theres a number of factors 
that need to be considered. The market value takes into account the type (make and model) 
and condition (age, mileage, general condition) of the van. With so many factors to consider, 
finding a like for like vehicle is difficult. And even then, its difficult to be sure that vehicle is 
being sold for the correct market value. For that reason, Im more persuaded by the trade 
guides than I am by the adverts Mr E has provided. These trade guides take into account all 
the factors listed above and use nationwide data to value vehicles.
Using three of these guides CAP, Glasss and Cazana, Mr Es vehicle was valued at 
£11,160, £11,193 and £11,024 respectively. These values use Mr Es registration, so they 
consider its make, model, age, mileage and condition when valuing it. These values are 
based on Mr Es van being in the best possible condition and value his van at the time of the 
theft.
As Southern Rocks offer of £11,130  minus the policy excess - is within the range offered 
by those guides, Im satisfied its fair and in line with our approach to these types of cases. 
One of the guides, Cazana also lists closely matched vehicles recently sold. Some of these 
vehicles have lower mileage than Mr Es, some have higher. The range of these sales 
ranges from around £6,500 to £20,000. Taking this into account, Im satisfied Southern 
Rocks settlement of Mr Es claim is in line with the policy terms and fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman