DRN-3764821
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as N, is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc
(RBS) isnt adhering to the agreed terms of an amended loan agreement.
This complaint is brought to this service on Ns behalf by Ns director, Mr S.
What happened
N has a Bounce Back Loan (BBS) with RBS. In July 2021, N successfully applied to RBS
for a variation to the terms of the BBL under the Pay as You Grow (PAYG) options 
introduced to help businesses manage their cashflows. An agreement confirming that 
variation  a term extension that would lower Ns monthly repayments  was supplied to N 
by RBS. However, a system error meant that RBS lost its record of the variation agreement. 
Because of this, RBS reverted Ns BBL back to the original terms and asked N to apply for 
the variation again. Mr S wasnt happy about this, especially as the variation had already 
been agreed. So, he raised a complaint on Ns behalf.
 
RBS issued a response to Ns complaint which suggested that it was Ns application for the
variation that had been lost, rather than the details of an already agreed variation, and which
didnt uphold Ns complaint. Mr S wasnt satisfied with RBSs response to the complaint, so
he referred Ns complaint to this service.
 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt RBS had already agreed to the
variation as N maintained, but they felt that RBSs request for N to reapply was a reasonable
one which would have allowed the variation to be reinstated with the least disruption.
Because of this, our investigator didnt instruct RBS to apply the variation on the basis of the
previously approved paperwork as N would like, although they did recommend that RBS
should make a payment of £100 to N for the inconvenience that N had incurred.
 
Mr S didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 September 2022 as follows:
N has been able to confirm to my satisfaction that the variation it applied for in July 
2021 was agreed to by RBS. This is because N has provided a copy of the variation 
agreement to this service, which clearly states that the term of the loan will be 
extended to 26 June 2030, and that N will repay the BBL in instalments of £220.29 
until that date. As such, its difficult to understand why RBS, having had the system 
error that they did, didnt request a copy of the agreement from N and then apply 
those agreed terms to Ns BBL.
 
Given that I am satisfied that the variation has been agreed by both RBS and N, I see 
no reason why RBS shouldnt adhere to the terms of that agreed variation. And I feel 
that if the circumstances were somehow reversed, and RBS had proof of a loan 
agreement that N had somehow lost, RBS would most likely insist that N honoured 
that agreement.
 
As such, my provisional decision here is that RBS must restructure Ns loan as per 
the agreed variation, and reimburse to N any portion of the monthly loan instalments 
its paid since July 2021 above the £220.29 instalment amount agreed in the 
variation. These reimbursements must be made to N along with 8% simple interest, 
calculated from the dates that instalments were paid to the date of the 
reimbursement back to N. And RBS must also ensure that Ns credit file reporting is 
as it should be, had the variation been applied as it should have been.
 
However, I dont feel that RBS should be instructed to make any further payments to 
N such as compensation here. This is because RBS did provide N with the option to 
reapply for the variation, which Im satisfied would in all probability have been a quick 
way to have the variation applied to Ns BBL with minimal disruption. And while I can 
appreciate how N may have disagreed with the principles behind that option, given 
that the option was there, I dont feel that RBS can be reasonably held solely 
accountable for the length of time this matter has remained unresolved.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr S and RBS the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they wished me to consider before I moved to a final decision. 
RBS explained that while they agreed with my provisional decision in principle, they felt that 
it wasnt within the rules of PAYG scheme to backdate the variation as would be required. 
RBS also felt that there might be limitations regarding its own systems that might cause N 
problems if N applied for a future term variation with RBS at any point. 
RBS also noted that N had applied for a PAYG term extension subsequent to raising its 
complaint which had been accepted and implemented, which would mean this later PAYG 
term extension would need to be undone if the original term extension were to be 
implemented. 
Finally, RBS explained that if they were to implement the original PAYG variation, this would 
lead to N paying more interest over the life of the loan. This was because, since the events 
surrounding the first variation about which N had complained, N had made a payment to 
reduce the balance outstanding on the loan by a substantial amount, so that the later PAYG 
extension benefitted from being applied to a reduced outstanding balance. 
For these reasons, RBS made a counter-proposal, whereby the more recent PAYG term 
extension would be allowed to remain in place, but where N would receive some 
reimbursements from RBS  as if the initial PAYG extension had been reverted to, so that N 
wouldnt lose out financially by accepting RBSs counter proposal.
I put RBSs counter proposal to Mr S, including that if the instructions in the provisional 
decision were implemented it would result in N paying more interest over the full term of the 
loan, and asked for his comments. In response, Mr S confirmed that he wasnt happy with 
RBSs counter proposal and preferred the resolution as outlined in my provisional decision.
Ive thought about the comments RBS have put forwards. But the resolution as outlined in 
my provisional decision continues to feel fair to me, and this is because it fulfils the remit of 
this service to put matters into the position they should be in, had the error that prompted the complaint never occurred. Im also satisfied Mr S has been made aware of, and accepted, 
the potential consequences, including that N may pay more interest in the longer term.
Im also not aware of anything within the BBL or PAYG schemes that would reasonably 
prevent RBS from fulfilling the instructions given in my provisional decision, as theyre 
concerned about. And this is especially the case given that my instructions are intended to 
return the state of Ns ongoing loan to that which it should be in, had the original PAYG term 
variation not been unfairly reversed by RBS.
All of which means that my final decision here will be that Im upholding this complaint in Ns 
favour on the basis as outlined in my provisional decision. While I appreciate RBSs 
comment that this decision may present issues in the future, I feel that any potential issues 
will be for RBS to overcome, and I dont feel that this point should reasonably prevent me 
from instructing RBS to return Ns BBL to the position that it should fairly be in.
Putting things right
RBS must restructure Ns loan as per the original agreed variation and reimburse to N any 
portion of the monthly loan instalments its paid since July 2021 above the £220.29 
instalment amount agreed in the variation. 
These reimbursements must be made to N along with 8% simple interest, calculated from 
the dates that instalments were paid to the date of the reimbursement back to N. 
Finally, RBS must also ensure that Ns credit file reporting is as it should be, had the initial 
variation been applied as it should have been.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc on 
the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman