DRN-2437340
The complaint
Mr O and Miss R are unhappy with the service they received when carrying out a 
remortgage to TSB Bank plc. They say, in summary, that TSB took too long dealing with 
their mortgage application, and theyve not got the product they wanted.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what information is needed in order 
for me to decide it.
Mr O and Miss R have said the application took five months to complete, but thats not so. 
On 2 July 2019 Mr O and Miss R cancelled their first application, and things werent 
restarted until later that month. As the application was restarted the timeframe started again 
as new information would be needed, a new recommendation had to be made and an 
entirely new application had to be submitted. So the actual time this application took was 
from when the application was rekeyed on 30 July until it completed on 14 October; a period 
of around 11 weeks which is within the normal timeframe Id expect for a remortgage 
application like this. Remortgages can go through more quickly, but they can also take 
longer. I cant hold TSB liable for Mr O and Miss Rs higher mortgage costs elsewhere as the 
remortgage completed  from the point they made the application they proceeded with  
within a reasonable timeframe.
The parties dispute why Mr O and Miss R cancelled the first application but thats not 
relevant here. Its not in dispute that the cancellation was a decision made by Mr O and 
Miss R (not TSB). Irrespective of why Mr O and Miss R made that decision, the 
consequences of that decision  in that it delayed their remortgage  are their responsibility. 
If the first application hadnt been cancelled by Mr O and Miss R then Ive no reason to 
believe their remortgage wouldnt have completed much sooner. If theyd not cancelled it 
and it hadnt completed sooner, then thats a matter we could have considered, but as Mr O 
and Miss R didnt give TSB that chance its not something Im able to consider here.
I can see there was confusion over the product Mr O and Miss R wanted for their second 
application. Its clear that Mr O and Miss R were doing their own research as well, so it 
seems likely they knew which rates were available to them rather than simply relying on the 
adviser. TSB has admitted that its adviser accidentally sent products from a wrong loan to 
value (LTV) band to Mr O and Miss R but that was quickly put right. Mr O and Miss R were 
never eligible for the rate they say they wanted  a 2.39% fixed rate until 30 November 2029 
with no product fee  as that rate was only available for customers borrowing up to 60% 
LTV, whereas Mr O and Miss R were borrowing around 72% LTV. The equivalent rates 
available to Mr O and Miss R for their LTV band were both fixed until 30 November 2029 and 
were either 2.49% with no product fee or 2.39% with a £995 product fee.
Those were the products put forward to Mr O and Miss R on 30 July, with the adviser 
explaining the 2.39% (with the £995 fee added to the mortgage) was the more cost-effective 
version for them.
Having looked at all the published ten-year fixed rate mortgage products available in the 
market at the time it seems, for Mr O and Miss Rs LTV band for remortgages, this was if not 
the best buy, not far off it. Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business 
makes a mistake, mistakes do happen. Here Mr O and Miss R were told the fee-free version 
of the rate was 0.10% lower than it was. This is a mistaken statement of fact; otherwise 
known as a misrepresentation. When were looking at complaints of this type, we consider 
the appropriate remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would be in if the 
incorrect information hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if 
it had been correct. Mr O and Miss R could never have been in the position where they had 
the lower rate without incurring a £995 product fee and so there is nothing to put right here.
There are no grounds for me to order TSB to refund - or waive - the product fee as that fee 
was due for the mortgage product Mr O and Miss R selected. As Mr O and Miss R have the 
benefit of the product they selected, its only right they pay the applicable fee due for it.
Were not the regulator and its not our role to fine or punish a business and our awards 
arent punitive. Clearly no amount of compensation can change what happened; all I can do 
is consider the impact of a businesss actions on the consumer. TSB has agreed to pay £150 
compensation for some customer service failings and having looked at all the evidence  
and keeping in mind the level of award we normally make  I consider that to be fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order TSB Bank plc to pay a total of £150 compensation 
to Mr O and Miss R (less any amounts already paid). My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion on the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman