DRN-4487929
The complaint
Mr R complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened
When Mr R initially complained to Revolut (via a representative), he said he watched a 
segment on television about someone who had made money through cryptocurrency 
investing. He then found an article online, which appeared to be from a well-known 
newspaper, about the investment company (N)  and got in touch. The people he spoke to 
befriended him and gained his trust, so he decided to invest with N.
N prompted Mr R to set up the Revolut account, seemingly for the purpose of sending 
money on to the investment platform. The account was being topped up from elsewhere. 
Funds were then sent to another account in Mr Rs name with an authorised Electronic 
Money Institution (EMI). But most were sent to cryptocurrency exchanges (and a substantial 
credit was also received from such an exchange). Weve been told all these payments  in 
the region of £100,000, accounting for the credit  were lost to the scam.  
According to Mr Rs initial complaint, it was N who made the transactions  with his consent 
 using remote access software. Unfortunately, it seems N were operating a scam and 
werent actually investing Mr Rs funds. 
The disputed transactions took place in 2021. Mr R complained to Revolut about the scam in 
2023. It asked him for more information about what had happened. When it didnt receive 
this, it declined his complaint. Mr R then referred the matter to our service.
Since then, Mr Rs representative has told us the device Mr R was using was sent to him by 
fraudsters. They claimed be a phone company, and said the device was being sent as part 
of an upgrade. Through this guise, they directed him to download remote access software. It 
says its unclear how this later turned into an investment scam  but Mr R wasnt aware that 
payments were being taken from the Revolut account.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, they thought Mr R was likely 
involved with the payments and knew they were being taken. They did think Revolut should 
have questioned Mr R more about the payments, due to the account activity looking 
suspicious. But they werent persuaded that would have succeeded in uncovering the scam 
 noting in particular that it appeared the scammers had access to the chat function on 
Mr Rs account, and was using this to speak to Revolut  posing as him.  
Mr R has appealed the investigators outcome. In summary, he says it was Revoluts choice 
to intervene by chat. And that was ineffective and bad industry practice, given that Revolut 
says it cant detect whether the chat was being accessed remotely. He has also highlighted 
the vulnerable circumstances he was in, which he says would have been obvious to Revolut 
if it had spoken to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Ive first considered whether the payments were authorised. That is significant as, under the 
relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs)  the starting position 
is that Mr R is liable for payments he authorises. Whereas Revolut is generally liable for 
unauthorised payments.
I appreciate Mr Rs representative has now said the scammers made these payments 
without his consent. But its difficult to reconcile this with what they originally told us; the 
nature of the scam; and what we know about Revoluts payment processes
To expand on this  while I appreciate Mr Rs representatives may have gained further 
insight into the scam, they initially told us he consented to the scammers accessing his 
account and making the payments. Im not satisfied weve received an adequate explanation 
for why they now allege he didnt in fact agree to this. Especially as the nature of the scam 
(as reported to us) is that Mr R thought he was investing. So that would require him to be 
sending funds on to Ns platform.
Furthermore, based on what we know about the device and operating system Mr R was 
sent, and which we know was used to make the payments, it doesnt appear remote access 
would have allowed the scammers complete access to, and control over, the account. It 
appears Mr R would need to complete some of the payment steps. Overall, I consider it 
more likely Mr R knew he was taking action to make payments  or at least knew he was 
taking action to allow the scammers to make them on his behalf. Under the PSRs, that 
means the payments are considered authorised. 
Revolut is expected to execute Mr Rs authorised payment instructions without undue delay. 
However, that isnt an unfettered duty. There are circumstances when it might be appropriate 
for Revolut to identify a fraud risk and to therefore take additional steps before processing a 
payment. That might occur when a payment appears significantly uncharacteristic compared 
to the normal use of the account.
Weve been told this account was opened as part of the scam. So Revolut didnt have 
knowledge of how Mr R normally transacted, to know whether the payments were 
uncharacteristic. However, I do think Revolut had cause for concern based on the general 
account activity  as a lot of high-value payments were sent. 
There were occasions when Revolut detected risks and took action  such as declining 
some payments and displaying in-app warnings. At one point, it placed restrictions on the 
account until it had discussed the account activity with (who it thought was) Mr R. It also 
requested statements for the account being used to fund the Revolut transactions, records of 
the cryptocurrency account the funds were sent on to, and Mr Rs payslips.
Looking over these records, Im not persuaded Revolut did enough. I think it should have 
questioned Mr R more about the circumstances in which he had come to make these 
payments, in order to properly assess whether he was falling victim to a scam and warn him 
appropriately about the risks. However, Im not persuaded that further, proportionate 
intervention by Revolut was likely to uncover the scam and prevented his loss. Thats because of the level of access and control the scammers seem to have had. From 
what weve been told, it appears they were able to access Revoluts chat function to respond 
to its requests for further information and its queries about the account activity. So, even if 
Revolut had probed further, or issued a more tailored warning about the common features of 
cryptocurrency scams  its likely this would have been seen and responded to by the 
scammers than Mr R. So I dont think this would have deterred Mr R, and its unlikely the 
scammers would have responded in a way that made it obvious he was being scammed. 
I do appreciate what Mr R has said (via his representative) about why he doesnt think this 
form of intervention was sufficient, given Revolut seemingly cant detect whether remote 
access is being used to respond on the chat. But I cant see it had cause to suspect that was 
happening here. Getting access to the chat would still require knowledge of/access to Mr Rs 
Revolut account. And Revoluts records suggest only one device was being used to access 
the account. Furthermore, it also appears some of the information it was requesting and 
receiving was being done over email. So I cant see why Revolut had cause to doubt that it 
was Mr R responding. 
For the scam to have worked in the way that has been reported to us, it appears the 
scammers had a very significant amount of control over Mr R  beyond what we commonly 
see when remote access is involved. It appears they had access to his payslips, emails  
and to multiple other accounts in his name. We know the scam continued to run for at least a 
few months after these payments  as we have looked into a separate case about payments 
made from a different account Mr R was subsequently convinced to set up. 
I appreciate this was all part of the scam. But it does give me significant doubt over whether 
Revolut would realistically have been able to reach Mr R away from the scammers 
influence, uncover what was really happening, and dissuade him from proceeding. 
Ive thought about the points raised around Mr Rs vulnerability. I do appreciate this likely 
contributed to the way in which the scam unfolded. But I cant see Revolut had been 
informed of anything which meant it ought to have known Mr R might need a different level 
of support. Nor can I see it had cause to realise this based on the communication it received, 
seemingly from Mr R, in relation to the account. 
I also agree with the investigator that Revolut didnt miss an opportunity to recover Mr Rs 
loss. It wasnt notified of the scam until 2023, by which point it appears the funds had been 
moved on from the accounts they were sent to. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr R. I dont doubt he has been taken advantage 
of, in vulnerable circumstances, by the scammers. But having carefully considered all the 
circumstances, I dont consider it fair to hold Revolut liable for the loss he incurred. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman