DRN-3957653
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt set up 
overpayments to their mortgage account correctly. Mr M has dealt with the complaint. He 
asks that Halifax refunds additional interest applied as a result and pays £100 compensation 
to his bank account.
What happened
Mr M says he called Halifax in early January 2022 to set up monthly overpayments to the 
mortgage account starting in February 2022. He realised there was a problem in late 
January 2022 when he noticed the direct debit payment due at the beginning of February 
2022 hadnt increased. 
At that point, it was too late to increase the direct debit due at the beginning of February 
2022. So Mr M set up overpayments to start in March 2022. He says theyll pay additional 
interest as a result and Halifax should refund this.
Halifax paid £35 compensation. It said if Mr and Mrs M made an additional overpayment 
within one month of its final response (by 9 July 2022) it would backdate the payment to 
February 2022 and adjust interest on the account.
Our investigator said Halifaxs response was fair.
Mr M didnt agree. He said they didnt receive the final response letter, so couldnt make the 
overpayment within the deadline. Mr M says Halifax should have offered this when he called 
at the end of January 2022. By late October 2022, when he was sent a copy of the final 
response letter, hed already arranged to make payments up to the overpayment limit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have a mortgage product with Halifax that includes an early repayment charge 
(ERC) if they repay the mortgage during the product term. The product terms allow them to 
make overpayments of up to 10% of the mortgage balance each year without incurring an 
ERC (the overpayment allowance).
Mr M says he called Halifax in early January 2022 and asked it to set up 11 monthly 
overpayments, with the first overpayment to be made in February 2022. Halifax says while it 
doesnt have a record of this call, it accepts that Mr M did make the request. 
Mr M says he could see from the amount of the direct debit requested for the payment due 
on 1 February 2022 that the overpayment wasnt included in the direct debit. He called 
Halifax at the end of January 2022 to set up 10 monthly overpayments, with the first to go 
out in March 2022. It was too late to adjust the direct debit payment for February 2022.
Mr M complained, saying theyll incur additional interest as a result of missing the 
overpayment in February 2022. Halifax issued a final response letter in June 2022. It paid 
£35 compensation. It said if Mr and Mrs M made an additional overpayment, it would 
backdate it to February 2022 and adjust interest applied to the account accordingly. 
I think the offer made by Halifax was fair. The final response letter was correctly addressed 
and theres no reason to think it wasnt sent to Mr and Mrs M. Its unfortunate that Mr and 
Mrs M didnt receive it in June 2022. This meant they couldnt take up the offer within the 
one-month deadline in the final response letter. Mr M says he didnt see the letter until late 
October 2022 and couldnt make a further overpayment without the risk of exceeding the 
overpayment allowance. I understand the points Mr M makes, but this doesnt mean that 
Halifaxs offer to backdate the payment (if made) wasnt fair. 
Mr M says Halifax should have offered this when he called in late January 2022. He says 
during a call with Halifax on 31 January 2022 he requested that a back payment be made for 
February 2022, and was told that back payments werent accepted. But Mr M says this 
discussion was in January 2022. Mr M could have made an additional payment in February 
2022, if he wanted to do so. Direct debits arent the only way to make payments. 
Mr M was aware in late January 2022 that the direct debit wouldnt be increased in time for 
the monthly mortgage payment due in early February 2022. If he wanted to make a payment 
in February 2022 he could have done so. Hed have been able to take this payment into 
account when calculating the amount of the 10 overpayments to be taken by direct debit 
from March 2022, if he wanted to stay within the overpayment allowance. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt make an additional payment in February 2022. In the circumstances, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to require Halifax to adjust the interest applied to their 
account as if they had done so. 
Mr M called Halifax at the end of January 2022 to set up overpayments, having already 
called to request this earlier in January 2022. I think £35 compensation is fair and 
reasonable for the inconvenience this caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats because I find the compensation 
paid by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman