DRN-4313749
The complaint
Mr R complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limited (AIC) and their refusal to 
repair his cooling fan as part of the insurance claim he made following his involvement in a 
road traffic accident.
What happened
Mr R held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by AIC. Unfortunately, in October 2022, Mr 
R was involved in a multi-car road traffic accident, which damaged his car. So, he contacted 
AIC to make a claim on his policy.
AIC instructed a separate company to manage the claim for repairs on their behalf. But as 
this company was acting on behalf of AIC, AIC remained ultimately responsible for their 
actions, and the service they provided. So, I will refer to any actions taken by this company, 
and any other involved in the claim process, as though they were made by AIC throughout 
the decision.
AIC instructed a repairer, who Ill refer to as S, to complete the repairs. And before these 
repairs were completed, S completed a health diagnostic check, which showed an error with 
Mr Rs cooling fan. And Mr R wanted this error to be fixed as part of the accident-related 
damage, as he explained there was no noise coming from the cooling fan until after the 
accident. S repairer the rear of Mr Rs car but didnt repair the cooling fan as these repairs 
hadnt been authorised by AIC. Around the same time AIC instructed an engineer, who Ill 
refer to as X to inspect Mr Rs car to decide whether the cooling fan error was accident 
related. And on 10 November, X provided a report stating their belief the cooling fan error 
was unlikely to be caused by the accident, due to the low impact damage to the rear of Mr 
Rs car, and that there was no damage at all to the front. So, AIC didnt authorise any further 
repairs to take place.
Mr R was unhappy about this. And it was agreed that a manufacturers report be obtained to 
again consider the cooling fan error. And the manufacturer themselves provided a report that 
stated they couldnt relate the cooling fan error to the damage Mr Rs car sustained in the 
accident. So, AIC refused to authorise any further repairs. Mr R was unhappy about this, so 
he raised a complaint.
Mr R didnt think AICs decision was a fair one. He thought his dashcam footage showed that 
immediately before the accident, there was no noise from the cooling fan. So, as there was a 
constant noise after the accident, he thought it was reasonable to assume the cooling fan 
error was caused by the accident. So, he wanted AIC to accept this part of the claim, cover 
the cost of the repairs, and to compensate him for the upset hed been caused.
AIC responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they were fair to rely on 
the engineers report they obtained, which couldnt relate the cooling fan error to the accident 
damage. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr R remained unhappy 
with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Initially, our investigator was under the impression Mr Rs repairs had been handled on a 
credit hire basis. So, they upheld Mr Rs complaint, believing the referral hadnt been made 
clear. But it was then apparent the repairs had been arranged and completed under Mr Rs 
own insurance policy and could be considered by our service. So, our investigators initial 
view was retracted, and they investigated Mr Rs complaint again.
And having done so, they didnt uphold it. They thought AIC were fair to rely on the expert 
opinions of both X, and the car manufacturer, who stated the cooling fan error was most 
likely not caused by the accident damage. And so, they didnt think AIC needed to do 
anything more.
Mr R didnt agree. And he provided extensive comments explaining why, which centred 
around the dates shown on the fault codes and also what he felt was a lack of service during 
the claim process. Mr R also provided his own engineers report hed obtained since the view 
was issued, that he wished to be considered.
Our investigator considered this new report, but their view remained unchanged. And they 
gave AIC the chance to comment on this report, and their position also remained the same. 
Mr R continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr R. I recognise Mr R feels 
strongly that the cooling fan fault present on his car originated after the road traffic accident 
he was involved in. So, I can understand why hed expect AIC to repair this as part of the 
claim he made on his insurance policy. So, when AIC refused to do so, I can understand 
why Mr R would feel unfairly treated, as in his eyes he was left with a car in a different 
condition than it was before the accident occurred. And because of this, I can understand 
why Mr R would raise a complaint and put forward his request to be compensated.
But for me to say AIC should do something more than they have already, for example cover 
the costs of the repairs need to the cooling fan and compensate Mr R, I first need to be 
satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that, when refusing to 
cover the repair costs of the cooling fan, AIC failed to act in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy Mr R held. Or, if I think they did act within these, Id need to be 
satisfied they acted unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the 
case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to explain what Ive 
been able to consider and most crucially, how. Its not my role to speculate on what I think 
caused the fault to Mr Rs cooling fan, as Im not an engineer and so, Im not qualified to do 
so. Instead, it is my role to consider the decision AIC has taken and to decide whether I think 
they acted fairly, based on the evidence available to them. And when doing so, where there 
are opinions provided that dispute the other, Ive had to make my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities.
Ive first considered the main crux of Mr Rs complaint, which centres around the cooling fan 
fault and AICs refusal to cover the costs needed to repair this.In this situation, I note Mr R feels strongly that the cooling fan fault occurred after the 
accident. And Ive considered all the information Mr R has provided he feels supports this, 
including the engineers report hes provided from August 2023, the dashcam footage, his 
own testimony and also the findings of a diagnostics report he commissioned in January 
2023, even if I dont comment on them specifically.
But I recognise AIC dispute this, and theyve provided reports compiled by X, and Mr Rs 
manufacturer. As Ive explained above, where both parties are disputing the opinion of the 
other, I must think about what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the balance 
of probabilities. And when doing so, it is our services approach to place most weight on the 
expert reports that are provided.
In this situation, Ive seen both X, and the manufacturer, considered the cooling fan fault 
against the damage sustained by Mr Rs car in the accident. And I think its worth noting that 
the bodywork damage to Mr Rs car was minimal, with no repairs required to the front of his 
car. So, only rear repair work was completed. And, that the cooling fan is located at the front 
of Mr Rs car.
Because of this fact, Ive seen X stated I do not see how the rear end damage could have 
affected the cooling fan module. After my investigation, I do not feel that the fault is accident 
related. As X is the independent expert in this case, I dont think AIC were unfair to rely on 
this opinion, as Id expect any other insurer to do the same.
But I recognise Mr R disputed this. And I think AIC acted fairly by agreeing to obtain another 
report from the car manufacturer. And its accepted by AIC and Mr R that the manufacturer 
also concluded that the cooling fan fault wouldnt have been caused by the accident 
damage. So, as AIC commissioned two investigations that both stated the fan fault was 
unlikely to be accident related, I think they acted fairly, and in line with the policy, when 
refusing to cover the costs of the repairs at this point.
But I do note after these reports, Mr R commissioned two of his own. And Ive considered 
these at length. But I note both the reports were compiled after the rear of Mr Rs car had 
been repaired. And the second was compiled some 10 months after the accident took place. 
And in both these reports, their findings centre around the fault codes found within the 
electronic diagnostics.
Its not in dispute that in these code diagnostics, it states the error was first recorded 
electronically on 7 December 2022. So, I can understand why, as Mr Rs accident happened 
on 10 October 2022, both reports would deem the fault to have occurred after the accident 
and so, be accident related.
But crucially, Mr R reported an issue with the cooling fan, and the noise it was making, well 
before 7 December 2022. And AIC have confirmed the fault code reports were wiped during 
the repair process by S, and so, the date these codes now show only represent the next time 
the car was turned on. And I think this is most likely the case, as the 7 December 2022 is 
also the date the manufacturer inspected the car and so, this correlates with AICs 
explanation.
So, I dont think the date shown in the fault code diagnostics can be reasonably relied upon 
to fairly decide when the cooling fan fault most likely began. And because of this, this hasnt 
impacted the decision Ive reached.
I recognise this will be source of frustration to Mr R. And I will say that, in an ideal situation, 
the electronic diagnostics would be able to show exactly when the fault first arose 
accurately, and without question. But unfortunately, I dont think thats the case here and I dont think there is anything AIC couldve done to rectify this.
Its also worth noting that the second report Mr R has provided was a significant amount of 
time after the accident and was based on Mr Rs own testimony alongside other supporting 
documentation. While the report compiled by X, and the manufacturer, were compiled much 
closer to the accident date and with the car being tested. So, for these reasons and in line 
with our services approach, I think its fair for me to place more weight on these reports.
So, while I appreciate Mr R wont agree, I dont think Ive seen any evidence that persuades 
me that, on the balance of probabilities, the findings of both X and the manufacturer were 
incorrect. And so, I dont think Im can say AIC acted unfairly when relying upon these and 
deciding not to repair the cooling fan. So, I dont think they need to do anything more here.
I appreciate Mr R is unlikely to agree. And I want to note Ive considered all of Mr Rs 
testimony and information hes provided, which includes and is not limited to his belief a third 
inspection shouldve been arranged by AIC. But I dont agree, as I think there was nothing to 
suggest the two opinions they had already obtained were incorrect.
And while I recognise Mr R has also raised concerns about how the companies acting on 
behalf of AIC identified themselves, I can confirm any company involved in the repair 
process were ultimately working on behalf of AIC, who held responsibility of the claim overall 
as the policy underwriter. So, while Ive seen no evidence of any company misidentifying 
themselves, I dont think Mr Rs claim was negatively impacted if this had been the case. 
That being said, I recognise there were several different parties to the claim, including the 
repairer, engineers, and management companies, so I can appreciate how some confusion 
may have arisen at times.
So, because of the all the above, while I do recognise the impact that has been caused to Mr 
R and his clearly strong feelings towards the situation, I dont think I can say AIC have acted 
unfairly, or outside of the policy, on this occasion. And so, I dont think they need to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman