DRN-3446596
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint, brought to us on his behalf by his representative, is about his pension 
being invested in a cash deposit fund for a prolonged period, and its value being eroded by 
charges. He considers The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited had a duty of 
care, and should have done more to alert him that the fund wasnt suitable for long term 
investment.
What happened
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She set out the background 
and circumstances to the complaint in her assessment of it, a copy of which she sent to both 
parties. 
In summary, Mr W transferred his pension to the firm in 2010 on the advice of his 
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA). In July 2015 the IFA contacted Royal London to 
instruct it to switch Mr Ws pension to a deposit fund and to request that no further 
commission would be paid to it as from October 2015. This instruction was in anticipation of   
Mr Ws impending retirement. In December 2015 the IFA was removed as the agent from the 
pension plan. 
Mr W subsequently deferred his retirement date.  However his pension remained in the 
same fund. There was an annual charge of 1.39% on the fund. The annual statements show 
Mr Ws pension was decreasing in value year on year.
Mr W contacted Royal London on 14 August 2020 to defer his retirement again until 
September 2021. 
Mr Ws representative had Power of Attorney for Mr W granted in December 2020. And 
Royal London were notified of it at the start of 2021. The representative contacted Royal 
London in January 2021 to say that Mr Ws pension could remain where it was and no action 
was required.
Royal London sent Mr W a pre-retirement pack in March 2021. This set out the value
of his pension, included some risk warnings, and outlined the options available to him.
Mr Ws representative complained to Royal London in June 2021. He also asked Royal 
London to switch Mr Ws pension to a different fund. Royal London didnt uphold the 
complaint, and it was referred to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Royal 
London was the provider for Mr Ws pension, and it had to administer it in accordance with 
the plans terms and conditions. She said Royal London couldnt recommend how Mr W 
should invest his pension. 
The investigator said there was no doubt that Mr W had been through some very difficult and 
upsetting times over the last few years. And she agreed Mr Ws pension wouldnt likely have 
been at the forefront of his mind. Mr Ws representative had said Royal London was aware 
that the pension was invested in the deposit fund; that it was decreasing in value; that Mr W 
hadnt got a financial adviser, and therefore this should have alerted it of a potential issue. 
He said it should have done more to help. 
However the investigator didnt think Royal London should have done more in the 
circumstances. She said Royal London had sent annual statements to Mr W which showed 
the plans value was decreasing and the charges applied. They also outlined the benefits of 
taking financial advice. 
The investigator noted that Mr W had called Royal London on 14 August 2020 and informed 
it that he wanted to defer his retirement by three months. The investigator said she had 
listened to that call. But she didnt think what was said ought to have raised alarm bells to 
Royal London in terms of Mr W potentially being a vulnerable client (Mr W was diagnosed 
with early onset vascular dementia in December 2020). The investigator said that even if it 
had, it wouldnt have been able to review Mr Ws investment strategy or make any 
recommendations as that was the role of a financial adviser. 
Overall, the investigator said she hadnt seen any evidence that Royal London had made a 
mistake when administering Mr Ws pension. She thought Royal London had administered 
the plan in accordance with its terms and conditions, and Royal London wasnt responsible 
for reviewing the pension. 
Mr Ws representative didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, he said that 
Royal London should have become aware of Mr Ws difficulties and vulnerabilities in the 14 
August 2020 telephone conversation. He pointed out a number of signs that he considered 
were an indication that Mr W was suffering from the effects of early onset dementia and was 
vulnerable. He said that Mr W should have been advised to consult a financial adviser. Mr 
Ws representative said he had never suggested that Royal London should have reviewed 
Mr Ws investment strategy. Rather, he thought it should have made it clear to him that he 
should have consulted a financial adviser  particularly given Mr W had given an indication 
of his circumstances which had implications on how the pension might be taken. 
The representative said he thought in the circumstances Royal London had a duty of care to 
Mr W, to both administer the policy, but also to alert him to the fact that there were options 
available. And that this should be done by consulting a financial adviser  which they didnt 
do.
The investigator responded to say Royal London couldnt put steps in place to take care of a 
vulnerable client if it wasnt aware that they were vulnerable. And she didnt think that Royal 
Londons call handler could have known that Mr W was struggling with health issues in the 
14 August 2020 call  the only call during the period in question. She said that Mr W had 
said he was going to see an adviser during the call. And that each of the annual statements 
said that Mr W should seek financial advice. Therefore her view of the complaint hadnt 
changed.
.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator, and largely for the 
same reasons. 
I agree with Mr Ws representative that Royal London had a duty of care to Mr W. But I think 
the extent of that duty has to be considered in the context of the service that Royal London had been contracted to provide.
As the investigator said, the statements that were sent to Mr W did clearly show the falling 
value of the fund.  And the later statements recommended talking to a financial adviser on a 
regular basis to make sure your investment choice is still right for you. I note the 2017 
statement said:
We would encourage you to consider your own investment choices as your investments are 
not currently benefitting from any ongoing investment governance by an adviser. You may 
be at risk of investing in funds that are not suitable for you.
It doesnt appear that this caused Mr W to seek advice about the suitability of the fund even 
against the background of its falling value.
I accept the wording used in the statements isnt the same as specifically saying that a long-
term investment in the deposit fund might not be suitable. But like the investigator, I dont 
think the firm was obliged to go that far. And in any event, as the investigator explained, 
there could be several reasons why an investor might want to move to a deposit fund. And 
even investing over a period of time, it isnt always unsuitable. 
Mr Ws representative has said that Mr W had intended to retire in September 2015 and this 
was the reason for his switch. So it appears that the decision to go into the deposit fund was 
a considered one at that time, and Mr W would have been aware of how he was invested.
Mr W subsequently deferred his retirement date and then extended it again later. Although 
Mr W ended up not taking the pension for a number of years after 2015, his situation 
appears to have been fairly fluid. If he was considering his position in the following years, 
2016 /17/18 etc, and without using the benefit of hindsight, there were risks attached to 
switching back into risk-based funds. Fund values can reduce significantly, and in a short 
space of time, as was seen in 2020 and more recently. If retirement was on the horizon, and 
with limited time for his funds to recover, Mr W may not have wanted to take on those risks 
at that time. 
Mr Ws representative has said that Royal London should have become aware of Mr Ws 
difficulties and vulnerabilities in the 14 August 2020 telephone conversation. However even if 
I accepted this was the case, by that point Mr W had already been invested in the fund for 
the majority of the period in question. And in the conversation Mr W had indicated that he 
only wanted to extend the September 2021 retirement date by three months. He also said 
that although he hadnt yet seen an IFA, he was going to do so soon. So I dont think it would 
have appeared to the firm that the fund was unsuitable at that point. Or that there was a 
problem for Mr W as he was going to seek advice in any event. I dont think its more likely 
than not that Mr W would have acted differently if the call handler had told him to seek 
financial advice given that was already in his mind in any event. 
Mr W has clearly had a very difficult time and for a number of reasons  I dont want to 
underestimate the impact those circumstances would have had on him. However ultimately, 
Ive got to decide whether the losses that have been claimed were a result of failings by the 
firm. And taking all the above into account, I dont think they were. 
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman