DRN-1926272
The complaint
Mr S complains because Vitality Health Limited hasnt paid a claim under his private medical 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S holds a personal healthcare insurance policy, provided by Vitality. 
In November 2017, Vitality authorised glaucoma surgery under Mr Ss policy.  
Unfortunately, the surgery was unsuccessful and in January 2019 Mr S made a claim under 
his policy for a Baerveldt tube drainage implant. 
Vitality said Mr Ss claim wasnt covered because their guidelines showed the proposed 
procedure was repetitive surgery aimed at maintaining symptoms, but it wouldnt effect a 
cure. Vitality said, following the Baerveldt procedure, patients would still need treatment to 
help manage and monitor the chronic condition of glaucoma. 
Mr S complained to Vitality and provided further evidence from his consultant ophthalmic 
surgeon. Vitality considered Mr Ss response but maintained its position that procedure he 
was claiming for wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of his policy. 
Unhappy, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. Mr S said his policy covered acute flare-
ups of chronic conditions and that the Baerveldt procedure was a continuation of his 2017 
claim.  
While Mr Ss complaint was being considered by our investigator, Vitality suggested that the 
Baerveldt procedure wasnt recognised under guidelines for health and care issued to 
medical professionals in England. Mr S provided additional evidence from several 
organisations about the matter and, based on this evidence, our investigator concluded that 
the Baerveldt procedure is established and widely used. 
However, our investigator said he didnt think Mr Ss claim was covered under his policy 
because the change in his medical condition necessitating the Baerveldt procedure didnt 
meet the policy definition of an acute flare-up of a chronic condition. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about Mr Ss problems with his vision. Its clear he feels strongly about this 
matter and its also clear he has spent a considerable amount of time gathering evidence in 
support of his complaint. However, I dont think Mr Ss claim is covered under his policy and I 
hope my explanation is helpful to him in understanding why. 
I understand Vitality gave Mr S specific reasons why his claim wasnt covered during 
telephone calls and in its final response letters. But the Financial Ombudsman Service has 
an inquisitorial remit and determines complaints that are brought to us having regard to what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Mr S has made the argument that his claim 
should be covered as an acute flare-up of a chronic condition and Vitality has made various 
arguments about the procedure Mr S was claiming for throughout the course of the 
complaint. So, its within both our investigators and my own remit to consider and reach 
conclusions about these issues. 
Although Mr Ss claim in 2017 and his claim in 2019 related to the same underlying medical 
condition of glaucoma, the 2019 claim wasnt a continuation of the original claim. Thats not 
how private medical insurance policies work. The 2017 claim was for the treatment which 
was specifically authorised by Vitality at that time - surgery. When the surgery was 
unsuccessful, Mr S was referred to a consultant ophthalmologist who recommended a 
Baerveldt procedure. This procedure is new treatment and, therefore, a new claim which 
requires new authorisation from Vitality.  
While Mr S may have had claims accepted for treatment of glaucoma in the past, Vitality is 
entitled to consider every claim individually to decide whether it is covered under the policy 
terms and conditions at the time the claim is made. A condition and/or treatment may meet 
the policy definition for a claim to be paid at one point in time, but this can change. Accepting 
a claim for treatment of a medical condition in the past doesnt set any precedent or oblige or 
bind Vitality to accept claims for the same medical condition in the future. 
Mr S has cover under his Vitality policy on a medical history disregarded basis, but this 
doesnt mean that Mr Ss cover is unlimited. No insurance policy offers unlimited cover. In 
common with most, if not all, private medical insurance policies on the market, Vitality offers 
limited cover for chronic conditions. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy say:
The purpose of this plan is to provide you with cover for eligible treatment, that
aims to cure an acute condition or the acute flare-up of a chronic condition or to 
return you to your state of health immediately before suffering an acute condition 
or acute flare-up of a chronic condition.  
The policy also says:
What does this plan not cover?
Like all health insurers there are some conditions and treatments we dont 
cover
-Any regular monitoring or ongoing treatment of chronic (long-term) medical 
conditions. Examples of chronic conditions include diabetes, multiple sclerosis 
and asthma
So, Mr Ss policy covers treatment of an acute condition or the acute flare-up of a chronic 
condition in certain circumstances  but not treatment of a chronic condition. It doesnt appear to be in dispute that glaucoma falls within the definition of a chronic 
condition set out under the policy. So, the issue for me to decide is whether I think Mr Ss 
2019 claim related to an acute flare-up of a chronic condition and, if so, whether I think the 
Baerveldt procedure recommended for Mr S constituted eligible treatment under his policy. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy contain the following definition:
Acute flare-up of a chronic condition
A sudden and unexpected deterioration of a chronic condition that is likely to respond 
quickly to treatment that aims to restore you to your state of health immediately 
before suffering the acute flare-up. For example we would cover eligible surgery 
following a heart attack that resulted from chronic heart disease. This does not 
include deterioration of a chronic condition where this is part of the normal progress 
of the illness, or recurring relapses of a chronic condition.
Its not for me to reach any medical conclusions or to substitute the opinion of medical 
professionals with my own. Instead, Ive considered the medical evidence available to me to 
decide whether I think Mr Ss claim meets this definition. 
A letter from Mr Ss consultant ophthalmologist dated 5 December 2018 refers to the 
Baerveldt procedure as having been recommended for the management of Mr Ss 
glaucoma. 
A letter from Mr Ss consultant ophthalmic surgeon dated 1 February 2019 refers to the 
Baerveldt procedure as being needed to prevent blindness because of deteriorating 
glaucoma. A letter from the same consultant dated 4 February 2019 says of Mr S:
Unfortunately, he has noticed progressive deterioration of vision in both eyesHe 
has uncontrolled intraocular pressure in both eyes, given the severity of his 
glaucoma.
Ive considered what Mr S has told us about his increasing eye pressure over the period 
from January 2018 until December 2018 and I understand Vitality told Mr S this would 
constitute an acute flare-up. But I need to weigh this up against the written medical opinions 
which Ive been provided with. 
While I understand Mr Ss previous surgery was unsuccessful, based on the medical 
evidence Ive seen, I think its likely that the Baerveldt procedure was recommended 
because Mr Ss glaucoma was deteriorating as part of the normal progress of glaucoma. 
This means Mr Ss claim doesnt meet the definition of an acute flare-up of a chronic 
condition set out under his policy. 
I understand Mr S feels his situation is similar to Example 1 set out in Appendix 2 of his 
policy (which contains information about chronic conditions). But, based on the medical 
evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can fairly agree that this is the case. 
Even if I were to accept that Mr Ss claim in 2019 did fall under the definition of an acute 
flare-up of a chronic condition, I dont think I could fairly ask Vitality to pay for the Baerveldt 
procedure. This is because, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can say its likely 
that the treatment was aimed to restore Mr Ss state of health. 
Vitality is entitled to decide what treatment it is willing to pay for as long as it does so fairly 
and treats similar consumers in similar situations in the same way. Vitalitys medical understanding of the Baerveldt procedure is that, while it may help to control eye pressure, it 
will not provide a cure and all patients will need to continue to receive treatment to help 
manage and monitor their condition. 
Ive considered the information Mr S has provided about Baerveldt devices showing success 
in controlling intraocular pressure in eyes, but I havent seen any evidence from a medical 
professional which disputes what Vitality has said about the necessity for ongoing 
management and monitoring of the underlying condition. The fact that the Baerveldt 
procedure has successfully reduced Mr Ss eye pressure in the short-term doesnt mean 
Vitalitys medical understanding is incorrect, unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr S was entitled to proceed with the medical procedure which his doctors recommended to 
him and there is no suggestion that the Baerveldt procedure was an inappropriate one for 
Mr S. Vitality has acknowledged that it doesnt dispute the medical reason for the treatment. 
But this doesnt necessarily mean that Vitality needs to pay Mr Ss claim. Mr Ss claim is only 
covered if it meets the criteria set out in his policy. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I dont think his claim is covered under the terms and 
conditions of his policy, so I wont be asking Vitality to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman