DRN-4269669
The complaint
Miss A complains that Wise Payments Limited hasnt protected her from losing money to a 
scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, Miss A has explained that in December 2022 she made three 
payments from her Wise account for what she thought was a legitimate job opportunity. The 
three payments, all made on the same day, were for £2,130, £3,201, and £1,599. 
Miss A subsequently realised shed been scammed and got in touch with Wise. Ultimately, 
Wise didnt reimburse her lost funds, so Miss A referred her complaint about Wise to us. As 
our Investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for materially the same reasons 
as our Investigator. Ill explain why.
Im sorry if Miss A lost money to a scam. Ultimately, however, Miss A suffered her loss 
because of fraudsters, and this doesnt automatically entitle her to a refund from Wise. In this 
case, it would only be fair for me to tell Wise to reimburse Miss A her loss (or part of it) if I 
thought Wise reasonably ought to have prevented the payments (or some of them) in the 
first place, or Wise unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds after the payments had 
been made; and if I was satisfied, overall, this was a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Im satisfied Miss A authorised the relevant payments, albeit she was tricked by scammers 
into doing so. Wise would generally be expected to process payments a customer authorises 
it to make. And under The Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of 
the account, Miss A is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in circumstances 
where she authorised the payments. That said, as a matter of good industry practice Wise 
should have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly 
sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious transactions  that could involve fraud or 
be the result of a scam. However, there are many payments made by customers each day 
and its not realistic or reasonable to expect Wise to stop and check every payment 
instruction. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent, and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
In this case I understand Miss A opened her Wise account on 2 December 2022, just three 
days before the payments; so there was effectively no account history, at the time of 
Miss As payments, for Wise to refer back to, in order to assess whether they ought to be 
regarded as sufficiently unusual to warrant intervention. This doesnt mean Wise shouldnt 
still have been on the lookout for unusual or suspicious activity. And I take on board the 
points Miss As representative has made about the payments all being on the same day, and 
the reasons why it thinks they ought to have concerned Wise. 
However, I agree with our Investigator. I dont think it would be particularly uncommon for 
users of an electronic money institute (EMI) account, like this one, to open the account and 
make legitimate payments like this almost immediately. And I think the fact that each of the 
three payments were to different payees (whilst not completely negating the possibility 
Miss A was being scammed), might reasonably have caused the risk to be viewed as lower 
than it otherwise might have been. 
I understand Miss As representative has said the payments were being directed to crypto. 
But I havent seen anything about the payment instructions (which dont appear to have been 
headed to crypto exchanges directly) that would have informed Wise about this. And overall, 
I just dont think these payments, taken individually or collectively, were sufficiently unusual 
or suspicious, in this case, for me to say Wise ought to have been obliged to have paused 
them, pending enquiries with Miss A, before allowing them through. I also understand that 
Wise hadnt received any prior reports, regarding the accounts to which Miss As payments 
were headed, to cause it concern. 
It seems to be a common occurrence in scams like this that the receiving account is drained 
of the funds promptly on receipt, presumably to limit chances of any recovery. And I 
understand in this case that by the time Miss A notified Wise shed been scammed, indeed 
the fraudsters had moved the funds on from the receiving accounts. In these circumstances, 
Im not surprised Wise hasnt been able to return the funds to Miss A. 
I realise this means Miss A is out of pocket, and Im sorry if shes lost this money. However, I 
cant fairly nor reasonably tell Wise to reimburse her in circumstances where I dont think it 
ought reasonably to have prevented the payments or been able to recover them. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman