DRN-2162828
The complaint
Miss B says Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat lent to her irresponsibly. She says she 
was already massively in debt when she took the loan out and needed to borrow elsewhere 
to make the repayments. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Cashfloat provided to Miss B on 30 May 2017. It 
was due to be repaid in four monthly instalments of £158.42. Miss B made one repayment 
as scheduled and then repaid the account in full.  
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He thought that proportionate checks wouldve shown 
that Miss B had a number of outstanding loans with other short term lenders. And so it 
shouldnt have lent to her. 
Cashfloat responded and said that its checks showed Miss B did have some other debt but 
the loan was still affordable for her. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint. Ive decided to uphold Miss Bs 
complaint and Ive explained why below.
Ive seen a record of the information Miss B provided when she completed her loan 
application. Miss B said she had a monthly income of £1,400 and she had regular monthly 
outgoings of around £200. The application data showed she was living with her parents 
which provides some explanation about why her outgoings seem low. This left her with a 
disposable income of around £1,200 per month. 
Cashfloat spoke with Miss B prior to granting the loan but it hasnt been able to provide a 
record of what it said. And it looked at information from credit reference agencies. The credit 
agency data showed that Miss B had one other short term loan outstanding. It also showed 
she had used other short term lending in the past and she had significant other debts.
As a result of these investigations Cashfloat determined that Miss B would need to make 
£750 worth of debt repayments in the next month. This was mixture of longer-term debt, 
credit cards and a short term loan. Because of this Cashfloat reduced the amount it was 
willing to lend Miss B from the £500 she asked for to £400. 
But looking at all of this I think its reasonable to say that Cashfloat was made aware that 
Miss Bs actual outgoings were significantly different from what she said on the application 
form. In particular her indebtedness was already a large part of her monthly outgoings. 
So I think Cashfloat was made aware at that time that Miss B mayve had some significant 
financial problems. And Cashfloat shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew 
enough about Miss Bs true financial situation.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Miss Bs financial situation. And I 
think that Cashfloat needed to verify the information it found out where possible. This is to 
make sure Miss B was in position to make the repayments sustainably.
I dont think Cashfloat did this. I think it largely relied on what Miss B told it and the 
information it gained from the credit reference agencies. So I need to think about what 
Cashfloat wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Miss B has provided some information about her financial circumstances which includes her 
bank statements. I accept that this isnt exactly what Cashfloat saw at the time. But I think it 
wouldve found out similar information if it had made proportionate checks, so I think its 
reasonable to rely on it.
This shows that Miss B had borrowed and repaid a significant amount to other short term 
lenders in the recent past. And she had more than one short term loan outstanding. I can 
see that Miss B had other financial problems that are evident on her bank statement. 
I think that Cashfloat wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate checks.  
And I think Cashfloat wouldve seen Miss B wouldnt have been able repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. So I think that Cashfloat shouldnt have lent to Miss B and I think shes lost 
out as a result of this. So Im upholding Miss Bs complaint.Putting things right
Cashfloat shouldnt have given Miss B this loan.
A) Cashfloat should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss B towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything Cashfloat has already refunded.
B) Cashfloat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss B originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Cashfloat should pay Miss B the total of A plus B.
D) Cashfloat should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Miss Bs credit file in 
relation to this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to deduct tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
should give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax Cashfloat has deducted, if she asks 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Western Circle Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman