DRN-1311058
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited didn't repair his mobile phone 
correctly when he made a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy. He says this has 
led to further damage.
For ease of reading, any reference to Assurant also includes its agents.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr H made a claim to Assurant when the screen cracked on his phone. The 
screen was replaced, and the phone was returned to Mr H. A few weeks later Mr H said he 
was walking in the rain when it stopped working. He contacted Assurant and the phone was 
sent back to the repairers. After inspecting the phone, the repairers said that it was water 
damaged and as this wasn't connected to the original repair, Mr H would have to submit a 
new claim and pay another policy excess.
Unhappy with this, Mr H asked for his damaged phone to be returned and he made a 
complaint. He thinks Assurant didn't seal his phone properly after repairing the screen and 
this has allowed the water to get in. As the phone repair had a six-month warranty, he 
doesn't think he should have to make another claim and pay a further policy excess when 
this happened only a few weeks after the initial repair. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She found that the phone was put through quality 
checks prior to initially being returned to Mr H  and these checks were as per the 
manufacturers standards. So, she said the repairs were carried out to a satisfactory 
standard. Our investigator also said there wasn't evidence that it was a poor repair that 
caused the water damage and it could have occurred for other reasons, such as the sim 
card tray not being fitted correctly. 
Mr H didn't agree with the investigator. He said when the phone was opened up to repair the 
screen the engineer would have broken the seal and this compromised the integrity of how 
water resistant the phone would be. He also said that there is no evidence that the sim card 
tray wasn't fitted correctly so didn't agree that he should be held responsible for the damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, I have reached my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  this means I have determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Mr H believes that Assurant didn't undertake the repairs correctly, following his first claim, 
and he says this must be why the phone suffered water damage. And because of this he doesn't think he should pay a second excess for any repairs relating to this new damage. 
So, the first thing I've considered here is the evidence relating to the first repair. 
Assurant has said the repairs were undertaken by a repairer approved by the phone's 
manufacturer. Ive seen the repairers reports following the initial claim and these do confirm 
that the phone was put through a full quality check to the manufacturers specifications. 
Assurant has also told us that the phone goes through a cosmetic inspection as well as a 
final audit by a senior engineer before it is released. Based on this information Im 
persuaded that its more likely than not the phone had been repaired to the required 
standard when it was returned to Mr H.
Mr H has argued that the water damage can only have happened as a result of the repair, 
especially as it was only a few weeks later. The fact that the phone had been repaired a 
short time before doesn't automatically mean that Assurant is responsible for any additional 
damage. It is important to note that the phone manufacturer itself stipulates that there could 
be other reasons for the water resistance to be compromised - including if compartments 
aren't closed tightly. I appreciate that we don't have anything to show that the cause of the 
water damage was the incorrect fitting of the tray, but similarly there isn't enough evidence 
for me to agree that the repair carried out by Assurant was poor. Whilst I fully accept Mr Hs 
strength of feeling on the matter, Im not of the opinion that there is sufficient information to 
show that the repair wasn't completed correctly.
I've then gone on to consider if it was fair for Assurant to request that Mr H make a new 
claim and pay a further policy excess. Assurant's initial repair was covered by a six-month 
warranty. Similar to many warranties of this type, it doesn't cover all types of damage. In this 
case, the wording explains that the warranty covers 'any mechanical or electrical failures as 
a result of any manufacturing faults or defects....'.
When the phone was returned the second time, it was found to have suffered water damage. 
I think it's clear from the wording above, this isn't one of the things covered under the 
warranty. So, I'm satisfied that Assurant has acted fairly when stating the second damage 
would be a new claim that would require Mr H to pay another excess.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but for the reasons Ive stated above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman