DRN-2813953
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that he wasnt able to transfer money directly from his savings account and 
feels he was given conflicting information by National Westminster Bank Plc.
What happened
In late January 2021, Mr S decided to transfer money out of his savings account with 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) to a different account using the mobile app.
Mr S wasnt able to do this as expected so he contacted NatWest using the online 
messaging service. When Mr S didnt receive the response he expected, he asked that a 
member of NatWests staff tell him what he needed to do. NatWest said that Mr S would 
receive a text to notify him when a response had been sent to him by email within the next 
three hours.
When Mr S checked online three hours later, he was surprised to see a response from 
NatWest as he hadnt received the text message from them. NatWest said that to make the 
transfer, Mr S needed to go to his local branch as he wasnt able to make an online transfer 
from that type of account. Mr S responded to NatWest to say that he didnt want to go to a 
branch to make the transfer and now wished to close his account. 
NatWest again said theyd text Mr S to let him know when hed received a response to his 
query. Mr S waited but didnt receive a text message from NatWest, so he checked online 
again. This time NatWest told Mr S that if he didnt want to go to a branch to make the 
transfer, he would need to open a current account with them. He would then need to move 
the funds from the savings account to the current account and he would be able to make the 
transfer. 
Mr S thought this was poor customer service, so he raised a complaint. He said he didnt 
want to open a new account, only to close his existing savings account. 
NatWest didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. They said that it was part of their terms and 
conditions of Mr Ss account that he couldnt transfer funds from it electronically. So Mr S 
would have needed to transfer the funds to another account with them where he could make 
the payment from. However as Mr S didnt have any other accounts with NatWest, they said 
his only option would be to go to the branch to withdraw the funds. So they felt theyd 
followed their correct process. 
Mr S didnt agree. He thought the terms and conditions were contradictory. He said that the 
terms and conditions noted there were numerous ways which he could close his account 
without having to go to the branch  including online as hed tried to do. So he asked this 
service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She thought that the webchat 
between Mr S and NatWest had been clear, concise and factually accurate. She also 
thought it was clear in the terms and conditions that Mr S had a Non-payment account and 
that payments couldnt be made from this type of account. 
She also said that although she couldnt confirm why Mr S hadnt received the text 
messages as agreed, she was satisfied based on the evidence shed seen that these had 
been sent.
Mr S didnt agree. He felt that the terms for transferring funds from the account and being 
able to close the account were contradictory. He also felt that NatWest had been 
contradictory when saying that he had to go to the branch to make the transfer as theyd also 
said that an electronic transfer could be made from his savings account. So he felt theyd 
delayed him making a payment that hed needed to make with these funds. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Conflicting terms and conditions
Mr S has told us he feels the terms and conditions for his account were conflicting. He also 
felt that the terms for transferring funds were different to closing the account, and the terms 
for transferring shouldnt override the terms for closure. Mr S also feels he shouldnt have to 
go to the branch to get his funds transferred.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions and Ive seen that in the introduction, it defines what 
accounts are classed as Payment Accounts or Non-payment Accounts. Mr Ss account falls 
into the latter. I acknowledge that Mr S said he couldnt see what account he held with 
NatWest on the mobile app when hed initially tried to make the transfer. 
However both the agents told Mr S that the account was a Non-payment savings account. 
So I think he ought to have been reasonably aware from this point that he wasnt going to be 
able to make the transfer from the account in the way he wanted. And as the first agent had 
confirmed this less than an hour after Mr S had contacted NatWest, I dont think there was a 
significant impact here.
Its not in dispute that term two says that instructions can be given in different ways  
including online and on the phone. However, Ive also seen that NatWest say in the same 
term If we dont follow your instructions, well usually tell you. If youd like to know why we 
didnt follow your instruction you can call us. I can see that Mr S contacted NatWest after he 
was unable to make the transfer, and they explained the reason for this - shortly after hed 
made contact  that his account didnt support this function.
Looking at term four and the section titled Taking money out of your account it says If you 
have a Non-payment Account, you can transfer money from your account to another account 
held in your name with us. If you want to make a withdrawal, you will need to transfer into 
your current account or another Payment Account first. As Mr S didnt have a Payment 
Account with NatWest, I dont think it was unreasonable that he wasnt able to make an 
online withdrawal from his account as it was clear the account didnt have that option.
I recognise Mr S feels that NatWests terms are misleading as term 10 says under Closing 
your account that You can close your account at any time, without being charged any 
closure fees, by writing to your branch; calling; logging into online banking; or visiting your 
branch. However, if Mr S didnt have an outstanding balance in his account, Im satisfied 
that he would have been able to close his account using any of these methods. 
Given that NatWest have told Mr S why they werent able to follow his instruction - as the 
account Mr S wanted to make the transfer from didnt support this function - Im not 
persuaded that the terms were misleading. 
I understand the terms and conditions dont specifically say that Mr S would need to attend 
the branch to transfer the funds, but I dont think its unreasonable that they wouldnt cover 
every possible scenario a customer would face. And I think the information Mr S was given was consistent that for his specific circumstances based on NatWests processes at the 
time. So I dont think NatWest have treated Mr S unreasonably.
Poor customer service
Mr S said hed experienced poor service from NatWest, and he was unhappy with how 
theyd dealt with his request. So Ive looked at the process Mr S went through and the 
information he was given at each stage. 
Mr S told us the automated web-chat didnt understand his request which meant he had to 
wait up to three hours for a response, which he didnt think was reasonable. However Ive 
looked at the responses Mr S provided to the questions that he was asked, and Ive seen 
that at 2:08pm when Mr S was asked if the account he wanted to make the transfer out of 
was with NatWest, he responded No. The automated web-chat therefore had no option but 
to conclude that the transfer was from an account which wasnt with NatWest. So I cant say 
the system did anything wrong here. 
In terms of the three-hour response time for an agent to respond to Mr S, I dont think this 
was unreasonable. I say this because if Mr S hadnt been given a response time, he could 
have been left in a queue constantly having to check to see if hed been given a response, 
which could for example have impacted his data allowance had he had one. 
So I think by giving a standard response time, NatWest was able to deal with queries in an 
orderly manner and manage their customers expectations, whilst treating their customers 
fairly. Ive also seen evidence that although Mr S was told it could be up to three hours for 
him to receive a response, the agents responded back to Mr S less than an hour after hed 
contacted the automated web-chat. 
Ive also seen that the first agent was clear that under the amended terms and conditions, 
Mr S wouldnt be able to transfer to a third party  only accounts held with NatWest in the 
same online banking profile  which Mr S didnt have. The agent also advised that Mr S 
could also transfer the funds if he went into the branch. So I cant reasonably say Mr S was 
given poor service as he was given factually accurate information by the agent based on 
NatWests process at that time.
When Mr S then contacted NatWest a second time on the automated chat asking to close 
his account and transfer the funds elsewhere, Ive seen that he was given a further option. 
The agent explained that as Mr S only had a savings account, he could open a current 
account online and then transfer the funds from his savings account, into the current account 
and then onto the new bank account via the mobile app. 
I acknowledge that Mr S said he didnt want to open another account with NatWest as he 
wanted to close his existing account, however he also said on the webchat that he didnt 
want to go into the branch. So I think the adviser was providing Mr S with a reasonable 
alternative that would have meant his payment could be transferred as Mr S wanted. Mr S 
could then have closed both accounts after the payment had been made. So I cant 
reasonably say NatWest treated Mr S unfairly or delayed him being able to transfer the funds 
from his account as he wanted.
 
Mr S told us that he didnt receive the first text messages from NatWest and that the only 
reason he saw the responses was because he logged back in after the three hours had 
expired. I cant say why the text messages werent received as Ive seen evidence that the 
mobile number NatWest held on file for Mr S was correct and that the texts were sent as 
agreed. So I cant reasonably hold NatWest responsible for the messages not being 
delivered.
 
As Ive also seen evidence the messages were sent within the three- hour timescale, I cant 
say NatWest didnt meet their agreed timescales. And as Mr S has confirmed that he logged in to the mobile app at the three-hour deadline and was able to access the responses, I cant 
reasonably say Mr S was delayed by NatWest or suffered any loss because of this.
 
I understand that Mr S will be disappointed with my decision as he wanted an apology and 
compensation for what he felt was a delay in being able to access his funds. However, Mr S 
was given the information about how he could withdraw the funds in a timely manner. So I 
cant reasonably say NatWest caused Mr S delays in transferring funds to make his required 
payment and I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman