DRN-3126984
The complaint
Mr D and Ms O complain that Ageas Insurance Limited hasnt paid a cancellation claim 
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D and Ms O had an annual travel insurance policy that covered them between 1 March 
2020 and 28 February 2021. The insurer was Ageas.
Mr D and Ms O had booked a holiday abroad between 24 April and 8 May 2020. Their flights 
and accommodation were booked separately. 
On 14 March 2020, the government at Mr D and Ms Os intended destination announced 
wide-ranging restrictions on movement, commonly referred to as lockdown. This included 
an instruction to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential reasons.
On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential 
international travel. And on 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all British tourists who were 
abroad to return to the UK, and the UK government announced a lockdown similar to the 
one at Mr D and Ms Os intended destination.
The airline cancelled Mr D and Ms Os flights on 7 April 2020, and they eventually got a 
refund for the flight. But Mr D and Ms O say they couldnt get a refund for their 
accommodation from the provider, as they cancelled too late.
Mr D and Ms O say that circumstances at the time of their holiday reasonably amounted to 
quarantine. As being subject to quarantine is covered under the relevant section of their 
policy, Mr D and Ms O think Ageas should pay the claim.
Ageas says that the holiday was cancelled on 7 April 2020 due to the Covid-19 global 
pandemic, and this wasnt something that was covered under Mr D and Ms Os policy. 
Ageas also didnt agree that Mr D and Ms O were quarantining as per the policy terms. 
Additionally, Ageas said that the relevant section of the policy excluded cover for claims 
arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country. So, it declined Mr D 
and Ms Os cancellation claim.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He acknowledged what Ageas had said about the 
terms, and how the situation Mr D and Ms O were in wasnt covered under the policy. But he 
also said that the policy excluded cover if Mr D and Ms O travelled against FCDO advice. He 
didnt think it was fair that the policy didnt cover them if they didnt travel, but it also didnt 
cover them if they did travel. So, he thought Ageas should pay the claim.
Mr D and Ms O agreed with out investigators findings, but Ageas didnt. It said that there 
was no cover under the policy for a flight being cancelled.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued my 
provisional decision on the complaint in October 2021. Heres what I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr D and Ms Os complaint.
I understand the situation Mr D and Ms O found themselves in was completely 
unprecedented and outside of their control. And I acknowledge the policy didnt specifically 
exclude claims arising from Covid-19 at the time. But Im mindful that the situation isnt 
something that couldve been foreseen by either policyholders or insurers.
In any event, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide 
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. So, Ive 
looked at the terms of Mr D and Ms Os policy. 
The Cancellation and Curtailment section of the policy says Ageas will pay for certain costs 
if a trip is cancelled for one of the following reasons:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close relative or 
any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an expert 
witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend court); or
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of employment 
for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any impending redundancy at the 
time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding or fire;
5. the policy requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at your 
home; or
6. you, or any person you intend to travel with, who is a member of the Armed Forces, 
emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee being ordered to 
return to duty.
This section also says that:
What you are NOT covered for: []
7. claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country []
Cancellation due to a global pandemic or due to a change in FCDO advice arent insured 
events under the policy terms and conditions. Our investigator correctly pointed out that 
Mr D and Ms Os policy wouldnt have provided cover if theyd gone ahead and travelled 
against FCDO advice. There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer 
had clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating 
to claims for changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I 
might think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of a strict 
application of the policy terms and conditions. But I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to ask Ageas to do it here as I think Ageas has fairly relied on another exclusion to 
decline the claim. Ill explain why.The policy contains a specific exclusion in the cancellation section for claims arising from the 
prohibitive regulations imposed by the government of any country. Its difficult to say with any 
certainty that there was one specific reason for Mr D and Ms Os claim. There are several 
factors that are likely to have impacted the airlines decision to cancel their flights, including 
the government restrictions both in the UK and abroad. For example, the restrictions 
imposed by the UK government meant that people could only leave their homes for a limited 
number of reasons. Travelling for leisure was not one of them. 
The flight was cancelled after the UK restrictions on movement were announced. These 
restrictions also remained in force until after Mr D and Ms O wouldve been due to return to 
the UK. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Ageas to conclude that Mr D and Ms Os 
holiday was impacted by the restrictions imposed by the UK government and the 
government of the country they were visiting. And I also dont think it was unreasonable to 
conclude that this was excluded by the policy term that Ive outlined above.   
Overall, Mr D and Ms Os holiday wasnt cancelled for any of the insured events outlined in 
the policy. I dont think simply being subject to lockdown, in their specific circumstances, 
meant Mr D and Ms O were quarantining as per the policy terms. I also think the above 
exclusion would apply to the circumstances of their claim.
Taking everything into account, I currently dont think Ageas has done anything wrong by 
declining Mr D and Ms Os claim.
Ageas agreed with my provisional decision, and it didnt have any further comments. Mr D 
and Ms O, on the other hand, werent happy with my decision. In summary, Mr D and Ms O 
are unhappy that there was no way they could use their insurance, but they havent got a 
refund for the premium they paid. Mr D and Ms O also questioned why Ageas changed the 
terms for policies bought later if it already knew it didnt have to pay anything due to Covid-
19. Mr D and Ms O dont think Ive reached an impartial decision.
As both parties have responded to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has 
now passed, Im issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, it might be helpful if I explained that my role is to decide whats the fair and 
reasonable outcome of an individual complaint. Its not within my power to tell an insurer how 
it should operate its business. The Financial Conduct Authority is the industry regulator, and 
I referred to its rules in my provisional decision.
In reaching my decision, I have carefully considered what both Ageas as well as Mr D and 
Ms O have said. And I considered the terms and conditions that applied to Mr D and Ms Os 
claim. Any later change in policy terms that didnt apply to them isnt relevant to the outcome 
of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision why I didnt think the claim was covered by the policy 
terms. I explained that the reason Mr D and Ms O cancelled their holiday wasnt an insured 
event under those terms, and why I thought Ageas had fairly relied on a policy exclusion 
when it declined the claim.Under this complaint, Ive only considered if Ageas fairly declined the specific claim Mr D 
and Ms O made. If they have further concerns, such as about the premium they paid, they 
would need to raise this separately with Ageas in the first instance.
I understand Mr D and Ms O will be disappointed with my decision. But having considered 
everything again, Ive reached the same conclusions I did in my provisional decision, and for 
the same reasons. Taking everything into account, I dont think Ageas has done anything 
wrong by declining Mr D and Ms Os claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr D and Ms Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms O to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman