DRN-3812473
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs Ss complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) relates to their 
mortgage account. Barclays carried out an income and expenditure review concluding that 
they had a negative disposable income, and because of this it raised affordability concerns 
with them advising their home was at risk of repossession. 
What happened
Mr M and Mrs S obtained a mortgage with Barclays in 2008. In July 2014 the County Court 
made a possession order although in November 2014 it was then suspended. The terms of 
the Order were that so long as Mr M and Mrs S paid the monthly contractual mortgage 
instalments (cmi) plus £60 per month from the mortgage arrears, possession of their 
property was suspended. It follows that breaching the Order would allow Barclays the 
opportunity to ask the court to fix a date for their eviction. 
Barclays said that not all payments had been made in accordance with the terms of the 
Order and provided details of the missed/late payments, which Mr M and Mrs S dispute. 
Barclays have said that its records show that Mr M and Mrs S missed some payments 
between 2018 and 2021. 
In June 2020 Barclays sent Mr M and Mrs S a Notice stating that the repayment 
arrangement had been broken. That letter indicated to Mr M and Mrs S that unless the 
overdue amount, which was specified, was repaid in 21 days, Barclays may instruct its 
solicitors to commence proceedings in Court with a view to obtaining possession. 
Barclays subsequently contacted Mr M and Mrs S and carried out an income and 
expenditure review. That showed Mr M and Mrs S to have a negative disposable income. As 
Barclays had identified affordability concerns it said this prevented it from being able to 
agree an affordable repayment plan for Mr M and Mrs S, and so advised them to seek 
independent financial advice as their home was at risk.
Mr M and Mrs S felt this was unfair as they believed they had complied with the terms of the 
Court Order and wanted to continue doing so. Barclays didnt think it had done anything 
wrong in confirming to Mr M and Mrs S that repossession was a possibility and that they 
should seek independent financial advice. Mr M and Mrs S were unhappy with Barclays final 
response and so approached this service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. 
Our investigator thought that Barclays hadnt done anything wrong and as Mr M and Mrs S 
didnt agree, the complaint was passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The November 2014 Court Order was a suspended Order on the terms I have set out above. 
That was the last Order the Court made. Mr M and Mrs S believe that the terms of the Order 
remain valid whereas Barclays believe the Order has expired. 
As a matter of law, after a period of six years from the date of the Order, it cannot be 
enforced without permission first being obtained from the Court. In other words, they could 
not ask the Court to evict Mr M and Mrs S for breach of the Order without first getting the 
Court to renew it. That said, it is quite commonplace for a business such as Barclays to 
apply to the Court for permission to enforce an Order like the one here, despite the passage 
of six years. 
Barclays also say that the mortgage account was in arrears and I have seen evidence of the 
notification of arrears dated June 2020. There is evidence of Barclays contacting Mr M and 
Mrs S to discuss their account and of it carrying out the income and expenditure review. That 
resulted in Barclays concluding there was an issue with affordability of the mortgage for 
Mr M and Mrs S, leading it to advise them to seek independent financial advice because 
their home was at risk. In my view that was the fair and reasonable step to take given the 
outcome of the review. 
Having looked at the statements provided by Barclays they do show that there have been 
missed payments. I can accept that from M and Mrs Ss perspective they made two 
payments in July 2019 and so feel as though that second payment for that month should 
cover Augusts payment, but as Barclays have explained, that second payment was taken as 
a reduction of the arrears and not as Augusts payment. And I know Mr M and Mrs S believe 
that some payments may have been delayed by the presence of a bank holiday, but that is 
not the case in the months of September 2018, March 2019, and July 2021. I am therefore 
satisfied that there hasnt been a total adherence to the Court Order. 
Having not adhered to the Court Order it is open to Barclays to take the matter back to Court 
to ask for the Order to be renewed and to argue that it has been breached. There does 
therefore exist a risk of repossession and Barclays were right to highlight this.
But irrespective of whether there has been full compliance with the Order, I am satisfied that 
Barclays were right to advise Mr M and Mrs S to seek independent financial advice as soon 
as it became apparent to it that there may be a problem with affordability. And that is what it 
looked like after Barclays completed their income and expenditure review. I understand Mr M 
and Mrs S wanted to carry on as they were, by paying the cmi plus £60 per month from the 
mortgage arrears, but it would have been irresponsible of Barclays to agree to that when it 
had calculated the mortgage was not affordable for them.
I have also noted that Mr M and Mrs S have said that an advisor told them that they hadnt 
missed any payments, but that doesnt change anything since it is clear from the evidence of 
payments actually made, that they had. 
So, although Mr M and Mrs S will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say 
Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman