DRN-2573630
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Nationwide Building Society, (trading as Dunfermline), mis-
sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Subject to its terms and conditions, the policy covered the insured if they were off work 
because of accident, sickness or being made involuntarily unemployed.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As Mr and Mrs H 
disagreed, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in making my decision.
Because the sale was so long ago, Nationwide no longer has any of the paperwork signed 
by Mr and Mrs H. Nor does it have much information about how and when the policy or 
mortgage were sold. So, Ive made my decision based on the information that I do have and 
what we know about the sale of MPPI policies generally. Where the evidence is missing, 
incomplete or inconclusive, (as some of it is here), Ive made my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in the light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Nationwide has told us that it has no record of the mortgage or MPPI being in place before 
October 1999 or after 2002. And Mr and Mrs H have not suggested that they had these 
products outside these dates. So, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I have 
decided Mr and Mrs Hs complaint on the basis that the policy and mortgage were sold in 
October 1999 and were respectively cancelled and paid off by the end of 2002.
The mortgage was in Mr and Mrs Hs joint names. And they have told us that the policy was 
also in their joint names. They have further said that the sale took place in a meeting. 
Nationwide hasnt been able to confirm that the policy covered both Mr and Mrs H or that it 
was sold during a meeting. But, to be fair to Mr and Mrs H, Ive decided this complaint on 
these bases. 
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs H, but Ive decided not to 
uphold their complaint. I explain why below.
Mr and Mrs H say that they werent aware that they had the insurance and that they knew 
nothing about it at the time. But they have also said that Nationwide advised them to take the 
policy. Clearly, they are trying to recall events that took place over 20 years ago. So, even 
though they recollect the name of the representative they saw, I can understand why they 
may not remember all the detail of what took place. And I don t think that I can reasonably 
rely just on their memories of what did or didnt happen during the meeting. However, 
Nationwide ought to have made it clear to Mr and Mrs H that the policy was optional. 
Because Ive so little information about how the MPPI was sold, I find that I havent seen 
sufficient evidence to conclude that it didnt do this or that Mr and Mrs H didnt consent to 
take it.
As Ive said, Mr and Mrs H say that Nationwide advised them to take the policy. Again, to be 
fair to them, Ive decided this compliant on that basis, even though Nationwide said it didnt 
give them advice. If Nationwide recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs H, it ought to have 
taken reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for their needs. I dont know what steps 
Nationwide actually took. But, having considered what I know about Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time, and by reference to the terms and conditions of their policy, I find 
that it was suitable in any event. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs H were both working at the time of the sale and Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that they wouldnt have been eligible for the MPPI;
Some 15 years before the sale, Mrs H had surgery and some months off work because 
of a medical condition, (the condition). The MPPI wouldnt have covered Mrs H for any 
periods she later couldnt work because of the condition,. She and Mr H say that, 
because of this, they would have had no benefit from the policy. 
Mrs H has continued to have problems because of the condition and has taken 
medication and other steps to manage its effect. But Mr and Mrs H have told us that 
Mrs H hasnt had further time off work because of it. Also, Mr and Mrs Hs right to claim 
under the MPPI for sickness, (other than anything arising from the condition), and their 
ability to claim for unemployment, wouldnt have been adversely affected because of the 
condition. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs H were affected by 
any of the policies other main limitations and restrictions. So, I dont agree that the policy 
couldnt have benefitted them at all. And taking into account all Mr and Mrs H have said 
about the effect of the complaint on Mrs Hs life, on balance, I dont find in the 
circumstances of this complaint, that the fact that claims arising from it would have been 
excluded, was sufficient to make the MPPI unsuitable for Mr and Mrs H. 
Mr and Mrs H were both entitled to sick pay from their employment and they had some 
savings. But, following a successful claim, the policy would have paid out a monthly 
benefit for up to 12 months in addition to these. This means that the employment 
benefits and savings would have been left available to help meet Mr and Mrs Hs other 
expenses while either or both of them werent working. So, I find that the MPPI could 
have been of use to them;
Nationwide no longer has a record of the amount of the monthly benefit. But the policy 
says that it must not be less than the monthly commitment to Nationwide. Ive seen 
Nationwides records showing payments on the mortgage account of about £300 a 
month in October 1999. And Nationwide has told us that policy cost was initially £26 a 
month. I find this means that the cost was reasonably competitive by reference to other 
MPPI available in the market at the time. And I havent seen anything to suggest that 
Mr and Mrs H couldnt afford the premiums. In any event, as it was paid for monthly, had 
they later felt that the policy was unaffordable for them or that they no longer wanted it, 
they could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without further cost.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs H everything that it ought to have about 
the MPPI, so that they could make an informed decision whether they wanted to take it or 
not. But, as Ive concluded that they seem to have wanted this type of cover and that it could 
have been useful to them, I dont think that clearer information would have changed Mr and 
Mrs Hs mind and stopped them buying it. I say this, particularly bearing in mind the serious 
consequences that could have arisen had Mr and Mrs H been unable to make their monthly 
mortgage payments, which were secured on their home. This means that Mr and Mrs H 
havent lost out because of anything that may have been wrong with Nationwides sales 
process. So, theres nothing that I require it to put right.As Ive said, Ive considered all the information the parties have given us. In particular, 
Nationwide thought that Mr and Mrs H may have made a successful claim on the policy in 
2001. Ive seen that there are credits to the mortgage account in that period. But Nationwide 
now says that it cant be sure that these were in connection with a successful claim. So I can 
confirm that, in reaching my decision, I have ignored the possibility Mr and Mrs H received 
actual cash benefits from the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman