DRN-3935917
The complaint
Mr H has complained that NewDay Ltd should have applied defaults to four credit card 
accounts sooner than it did.
What happened
Mr H had four credit cards which he stopped making any payments towards between August 
to October 2021. He thinks that NewDay should have applied defaults to the accounts after 
three months of non-payment, in line with what his other creditors had done. Because 
NewDay delayed in registering the defaults, this will have a longer impact on his credit file 
and finances.
Our investigator partly upheld the complaint, saying that NewDay should have followed its 
own policy of defaulting accounts after 180 days of arrears. She concluded that, as two of 
the credit card accounts had been defaulted within six months, that was fair and reasonable. 
However, one account (ending 7283) was defaulted at seven months and another (ending 
6144) at ten months. She therefore recommended that NewDay should amend Mr Hs credit 
file in relation to these two accounts, to show them as defaulting at six months.
Mr H accepted the investigators view. NewDay disagrees with the investigators opinion and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has explained, if the default on account 7283 had been applied after six 
months of arrears, that would have been in March 2021. But NewDay didnt default the 
account until April 2021.
If the default on account 6144 had been applied after six months of arrears, that would have 
also been in March 2021. But NewDay didnt default the account until July 2021. NewDay 
says the greater delay in this instance was because Mr H had begun making a nominal fair 
treatment plan payment of £18 per month from March 2021, which caused a slight stalling in 
its processes.
NewDay says it acted fairly in applying the default markers when it did. I take its point that it 
doesnt feel that it has done anything too wrong. But in the particular circumstances of this 
case, I think it could have been more proactive in taking action sooner.
Our investigator talked about the guidance set out by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) which explains that it would be reasonable to register a default after three months of 
arrears and normally by the time the account is in six months of arrears. NewDay has also 
referred to this when defending its position. In particular, it has highlighted the wording that 
accounts should normally be defaulted after six months, meaning that it is not a hard and 
fast rule. But the guidance also talks about the need to consider the time when the 
relationship between the parties has broken down as a relevant factor in taking corrective 
action. 
Mr Hs first missed payment on both accounts was in September 2020. He also had two 
other credit cards that he stopped making payments on shortly afterwards. And although he 
did start to make regular payments towards account 6144, this was not until March 2021 and 
the amount he was offering was not enough to enter into an agreed payment plan.
NewDay sent out a default notice for account 7283 on 1 December 2020 and terminated the 
agreement on 24 December 2020. It sent the default notice for account 6144 in January 
2021 and terminated the agreement in February 2021. I think NewDay would have likely 
known by this point that Mr H was never going to be in a position to get back on track with 
his arrears and payments.
Overall, Im satisfied that a breakdown in the relationship had occurred by February 2021 at 
the latest. So it would have been fair and reasonable for NewDay to default the accounts in 
March 2021, after they had been in arrears for six months. By not doing so, it acted unfairly.
Putting things right
NewDay should amend Mr Hs credit file to record the defaults on accounts 7283 and 6144 
as having taken place in March 2021.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require NewDay Ltd to put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman