DRN-2360701
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage application Mr D made to Masthaven Bank Limited. Hes 
unhappy that it turned him down after he had incurred the expense of the valuation and 
having his income certified by his accountant. Masthaven has apologised for arranging the 
valuation before it had made its final underwriting decision, and refunded the £1,200 
valuation fee. 
Our investigator thought that in addition to the valuation refund, Masthaven should pay Mr D 
£200 compensation for his time and trouble. Masthavens agreed to this but Mr D wants his 
complaint reviewed by an ombudsman. Hes looking to be reimbursed all of his costs, 
including his broker and accountants fees (in all his loss claim adds up to £3,275) plus 
substantial compensation.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts.
 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his email of 5 August 2020 asking for the case to be reviewed, Mr D says that he incurred 
the costs of having his income certified in the knowledge that i would meet the banks 
requirements as advertised otherwise i would not have done so. If that is true, then Im 
afraid Mr D rather mis-directed himself.
As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow money; but a lender must treat customers 
fairly. In the context of an application for lending, that means assessing it fairly in 
accordance with the banks lending criteria. Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and 
not generally made public; so any information Mr D gleaned from Masthavens website could 
only have acted as a general guide at best. Without meaning to be unkind, to infer anything 
beyond that would be a little presumptive.
Also, generally speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders 
commercial judgement on how much it will lend, and I see no reason to depart from that 
position here. Masthaven may well have made a bit of a meal of the process of gathering 
and then assessing the information about Mr Ds income; and for that, I find £200 
compensation to be proportionate. But the information was in line with what Id expect a 
prudent lender to ask for when applying its lending criteria, and there are no grounds for me 
to second-guess or otherwise interfere with the decision Masthaven made in reliance on it.
 
I realise Mr D thinks differently, not least because he has been able to borrow the money 
from another lender. But different lenders have different lending criteria, and that includes 
different approaches to affordability. Just because another lender was willing to lend to him 
doesnt mean Masthaven was at fault because it wasnt. 
Its right that Masthaven agreed to refund the valuation fee, as this cost should not have 
been incurred before Mr Ds application had been fully assessed for under-writing purposes. 
Had it not already have refunded the fee, I would have ordered Masthaven to do so. But I 
dont find there to be a case for ordering re-imbursement of Mr Ds other costs. As I said 
earlier, no one is entitled to borrow money; Mr Ds broker and accountants costs were, in my 
view, incurred to support his application, not to guarantee it would succeed.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I direct Masthaven Bank 
Limited to pay Mr D £200 compensation for his time and trouble. I make no other order or 
award. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman