DRN-3563923
The complaint
The complaint has been brought by a company, W. Any reference to W includes 
those submissions made on its behalf by its director, Mr B.
W is unhappy with how Santander UK Plc handled chargeback requests. W complains 
that Santander caused avoidable delays, failed to provide updates, and didnt adhere to 
the rules and timescales set by the relevant card scheme.
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, so Ive 
provided a summary of whats happened.
W made several chargeback requests to Santander for purchases made 
from Ws business account.
Two chargebacks remain in dispute and are the subject of this complaint  Ill 
refer to these as chargeback A and B.
Chargeback A refers to the purchase of a business training course.
Chargeback B refers to the purchase of a business coaching course and software.
Chargeback A
W raised a chargeback request with Santander on 1 June 2020 for a 
transaction dated 19 January 2020. On 2 June 2020, Santander requested 
information from W about the payment.
By mid-June W had provided some information, but Santander said it wasnt 
enough to attempt the chargeback because it needed a receipt showing proof 
of purchase, a breakdown of costs and the value of any outstanding lessons 
from the business course. So, it requested further information from W, which 
was received in mid-July.
In early August, Santander attempted the chargeback request, but it was 
declined. It raised a dispute the following day.
The merchants bank was given time to respond but having not heard back 
from it, Santander credited Ws account in mid-September 2020.
W says it experienced difficulties with Santander during this time  namely, 
having to chase for updates, being sent correspondence with the incorrect 
spelling of both its and Mr Bs name, and that a complaint about the service 
Santander had provided had been closed prematurely.
W complains that because Santander took too long, Mr B was prevented 
from investing money into another business.
Our investigator was satisfied it was reasonable for Santander to request 
further information from W before attempting the chargeback with the relevant 
card scheme provider. She didnt think Santander had caused avoidable 
delays, and that it was standard practice to wait 45 days for a response from 
the merchants bank before crediting the funds
She said Santander had correctly referred W to this service after it closed the 
complaint. But she said its service did fall short because it gave contradictory 
information when asked for updates, and W had needed to call several times to 
find out what was going on. So, she said Santander needed to pay £100 
compensation to reflect the difficulties W experienced
Chargeback B
W asked Santander to raise chargeback requests for four transactions paid to 
the merchant. The merchant acquirers bank accepted three of these at pre-
arbitration stage but defended chargeback B.
So, Santander referred chargeback B for arbitration with the card scheme 
provider, who ultimately found in the merchants favour.
W doesnt think Santander handled the chargeback fairly because it didnt 
share the merchants evidence for defending the chargeback.
Our investigator explained we dont have the power to consider complaints 
about the card schemes arbitration decision.
She was satisfied Santander hadnt acted unfairly by not sharing the 
merchants evidence.
Santander agreed with the investigators overall findings, but W said the compensation 
didnt reflect the difficulties experienced and remained of the opinion that Santander 
hadnt acted in accordance with the relevant card schemes rules. So, the case was 
passed to me for a decision.
On 8 June 2022, I issued a provisional decision, which said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to reach 
the
same outcome as the investigator, but my reasons for doing so are different.
But before I provide my thoughts on whether Santander handled these two 
chargebacks fairly, its important to clarify  for both parties understanding  who the 
eligible complainant is in this case.
W brought the complaint to our service  though Mr B has made submissions on its 
behalf in his capacity as director and signatory of Ws business account. As W is a limited company, and therefore, a separate legal entity, W is the eligible complainant 
here, not Mr B. What this means is that I cant consider the personal losses Mr B says 
hes experienced  my consideration of compensation is restricted to the inconvenience 
 if any - that W has experienced.
I have explained to Santander that from the information Ive seen so far, Im satisfied W 
is a micro-enterprise and therefore an eligible complainant for the purpose of Dispute 
Resolution Rule 2.7.3R, and so this service isnt prevented from looking at this 
complaint. Santander appears to have accepted my thoughts on this.
So, Ill now turn to whether Santander handled the chargeback requests fairly.
Chargeback A
Santander considered chargeback A under the relevant card scheme providers rule. 
The chargeback was ultimately successful. So, what Im considering is whether 
Santanders handling of it caused avoidable delays.
According to the relevant rule, the chargeback must be raised within 120 calendar days 
from when the cardholder expected to receive the merchandise or services. Emails 
dated 21 May 2020 between W and the merchant suggest this is when W became 
aware that it wasnt going to receive the service it thought it was going to from the 
merchant. Based on this, Santander had until 18 September 2020 to raise the 
chargeback. I can see from Santanders system notes that the chargeback was raised 
in early August 2020, so it appears to have been raised in time.
I have considered however whether there were any avoidable delays during this time. 
Early on, Santander needed further information from W to raise the chargeback. 
Santander explained it needed this because W hadnt provided a receipt or invoice for 
the transaction, nor had a breakdown been given as to what aspects of the course had 
or hadnt been fulfilled by the merchant. Im satisfied it was reasonable for Santander 
to ask for this to progress the chargeback and so, I dont think it caused avoidable 
delays in doing so.
Our investigator explained Santander waited 45 days to see if the merchant defended 
the chargeback before crediting Ws account. Whilst this meant W waited longer to 
have the amount credited to its account, I dont think Santander acted unreasonably in 
doing so. As Santander couldnt be certain the chargeback would be successful - and 
as this was a high value transaction - I think Santander were being prudent in waiting 
to see if the merchant defended the chargeback. Had Santander provided a temporary 
credit, W would have been put in the difficult position of having to return the funds to 
Santander if the merchant defended the chargeback.
Our investigator acknowledged that W had been given unhelpful updates and thought 
£100 compensation fairly reflected the inconvenience W experienced. Ive thought 
about this - along with the issues raised about Ws name being mis-spelt in 
correspondence. Whilst this would have been frustrating, I must keep in mind that 
despite these errors the correspondence was ultimately sent to the correct email 
address, therefore, limiting the
inconvenience of the mistake. So, on balance, I agree that £100 reasonably reflects the 
inconvenience W experienced and Im not intending to increase the amount of 
compensation in respect of this.
Within its submissions W has said that because Santander took too long to resolve the chargeback, Mr B wasnt able to reinvest money into another of his businesses and 
that this has affected his livelihood. Ive already explained above that as this case has 
been presented as having been brought by W, I cant consider Mr Bs personal losses. 
This also extends to the alleged losses of a third party limited company. So, whilst I 
understand               Mr Bs strength of feeling about this point, Im not able to consider 
this when determining the level of compensation.
Chargeback B
When a bank starts a chargeback, the outcome is not guaranteed. The claim 
may be successfully defended by the merchant. That doesnt mean the bank 
agrees with the merchant, or that it favours one party over another. It simply 
means the merchant has defended the claim in line with the card scheme rules. 
Which is what has happened in respect of this chargeback.
For clarity, Im not considering the card schemes decision to find in the merchants 
favour (it didnt consider the circumstances to amount to misrepresentation). I 
appreciate W is unhappy about this, but what W has is a contract dispute with the 
merchant - which is not something this service can consider. Instead, what Im able to 
look at is whether Santander handled the chargeback fairly.
Santander raised the chargeback as a misrepresentation. Ive looked at the evidence 
provided by W. From what Ive seen W says it was led to believe the product on offer 
would match its business needs but that this turned out to be false as the platform 
wasnt compatible with the product it was looking to sell. Even though the card scheme 
didnt agree this was a misrepresentation, based on the information provided to 
Santander at the time the chargeback was raised, Im persuaded it was reasonable for it 
to raise the chargeback using the code it did. So, I dont think theres an issue with 
whether the right code was used.
I have seen the merchant provided evidence to defend the chargeback at pre-
arbitration stage. Santander subsequently took the case to arbitration  it said it did so 
as three out of four (this being the fourth) chargebacks relating to the purchase of this 
course and software had been successful. This isnt something Santander were 
obliged to do  but given three other chargebacks had been successful, it seems there 
was reason to believe this chargeback might be successful under the same card 
scheme rule. And Im satisfied this was a reasonable course of action.
The issue W has is that Santander dont appear to have shared the merchants 
evidence for defending the chargeback with W, and so W says its position has been 
prejudiced.
Santander hasnt said why it didnt share the information with W. So, I need to 
consider whether if it had, might it have made a difference.
I havent seen that theres an expectation on Santander to share the merchants 
defence with W before it sent the claim to arbitration. Even if it should have, Im not 
persuaded W would have been able to provide evidence which would have led to a 
different outcome. I say this because the merchant put in a robust defence which 
indicated the platform / software worked as it should have. And evidence supplied 
with the case filing supports the merchants case that it provided what was agreed 
and the platform was working. Nor does the agreement accepted by W mention the 
ability of selling the product W sought to. So, I
havent seen enough to persuade me that on the balance of probabilities, W could have provided evidence which would have made a difference.
Whilst I recognise it might have been preferable for Santander to share with W the 
merchants evidence, ultimately, Im not persuaded W has been prejudiced. Santander 
took the chargeback to arbitration following the merchants defence  as Id expect it to 
do in the circumstances - but a robust defence was provided in response to Ws claim, 
which isnt something Santander is responsible for. So, Im currently not persuaded that 
Santander needs to refund W or pay compensation for its handling of this chargeback 
claim.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Santander UK Plc to 
pay W £100 compensation. Santander UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell it W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Santander responded to my provisional decision and agreed to pay the compensation. W 
didnt provide any further comment in respect of the merits of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is the same as that set out in my provisional decision 
above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Santander UK Plc to pay W 
£100 compensation. Santander UK Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman