DRN-3043380
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the exit fees charged by Redmayne-Bentley LLP (RB) and the way 
its handled matters related to the termination of an agreement with one of its advisers.
Mrs H is being represented by her husband Mr H, who also has the same complaint with our 
service. All references to Mrs H will include information and submissions from Mr H.
What happened
RB had a franchise agreement with an adviser (the adviser). Mrs H, under an execution 
only contract, had been its client since 1997. On 14 April 2020 RB terminated the advisers 
agreement due to a repudiatory breach and notified clients of this on the same day. RB told 
relevant clients which included Mrs H, that if they wanted to move to the advisers new firm, 
if they held stock in its nominee account and/or an ISA, its standard transfer out charges 
(exit fees) would apply. These fees were £15 per line of stock with a maximum of £195 per 
account. ISAs had an additional transfer out charge of £60 plus VAT.
Mrs H decided to transfer her account to the adviser and complained about the exit fees. 
She was also unhappy about the way RB handled the departure of the adviser. 
RB rejected the complaint. In its final response letter to Mrs H and its submissions to this 
service, it said that because of the circumstances of the advisers departure, it didnt have 
time to notify clients any earlier. And it was satisfied the way this was communicated to 
Mrs H, was appropriate. In terms of the exit fees, RB said it wasnt able to provide the 
original agreement but noted its process wouldve been to provide new clients with a copy of 
its terms and conditions (now terms of business) including a Schedule of Charges. It noted 
any significant changes since that time (1997) wouldve been communicated by letter 
originally but as electronic and digital communication developed, it increasingly used email.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. In brief, she thought RB had 
acted in line with its terms of business. And she was satisfied itd notified Mrs H about the 
advisers departure as soon as it was practical to do so. 
Mrs H disagreed. She said the lack of original documents was evidence that the fees now 
being charged, werent part of the original agreement. And the adviser has told her 
representative Mr H, that he (the adviser) didnt recall these fees being part of the 
agreement.
Following further correspondence with RB the investigator updated Mrs H. Our investigator 
forwarded to Mrs H various communications from RB, which it said would have been sent to 
clients over the years. This included a 2013 newsletter which referred to changes made to its 
exit fees. Mrs H said that as the documents made several references to needing to write to 
RB for its terms, or to research its website for these, she didnt think this was reasonable. 
She said her clear preference was to have communications sent to her by post. And she 
considered the 2013 newsletter indicated the exit fees were introduced later than her 
agreement with RB. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Before I explain my reasoning, I 
understand that Mrs H through her representative Mr H, has raised a number of points 
during contact with this service. Although I may not mention every point the representative or 
Mrs H have raised, Ive considered everything theyve said but limited my findings to the 
areas which impact on the outcome of the case.
As neither RB nor Mrs H can provide a copy of the original agreement, I cant say for certain 
that she was shown the details of the exit fees. I should note at this point that Mrs H would 
have only started the ISA in 1999 because this is when this product was introduced. 
Nonetheless, Ive nothing from this time to show if Mrs H was told about the relevant fees. I 
know Mrs Hs representative says he doesnt recall being told about the exit fees. But Im 
mindful that he (Mr H) is recalling facts that happened more than 20 years ago. So, I need to 
decide, on balance, what was more likely than not to have happened based on the evidence 
I do have.
RBs Quarterly Newsletter from 2013 says under Changes to our Terms and Conditions 
that the change made for the withdrawal of assets from our nominee service will increase 
from £10.00 to £15.00 per line of stock, up to a maximum of £200.00. As this newsletter 
wasnt addressed specifically to Mrs H, I cant be sure that she did receive it. But this does 
show the exit fee was part of the RB agreement prior to 2013. Further, I can see that from at 
least 2011, Mrs H was sent letters where RB makes reference to its charges and points to 
where more information about these could be found. For example, statements in each new 
tax year from 2011 to 2017 also contained an ISA application form. This form contained the 
following declaration: 
This is our standard agreement for the Redmayne-Bentley ISA, upon which we intend to 
rely. For your own benefit and protection you should read the ISA Supplementary Terms and 
Conditions detailed in our ISA Brochure carefully together with Redmayne-Bentley's Terms 
and Conditions and Guide to Services and Charges before signing this form.
I also see in its Terms of Business RB say: 9.1 We will charge fees and commissions in 
accordance with our published rates detailed in the appropriate Schedule of Charges and 
Ancillary Charges, available at www.redmayne.co.uk/terms or in hard copy on request. And 
that: 24.2 Should you choose to close your ISA, we will return your monies after deduction 
of fees and expenses.
The Ancillary Charges document which can be found on RBs website and which can be 
sent to clients upon request, sets out the level of fees that are currently applicable.
I think the information about the charges that apply to Mrs H if she decides to transfer out 
her investments, are clear, fair and not misleading. And I think she has been notified on 
several occasions during her time with RB about where she can read the full list of charges 
and fees. All in all, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to show that RB are behaving 
unreasonably or unfairly towards Mrs H by charging her the exit fees.
Mrs H says her clear preference was to be sent information by post. I can see the letters 
referred to above, were sent to her this way. But I also note she had an email registered with 
RB  this was the same email as her representative. So, even if RB had sent her some 
information by email, I dont think this was unreasonable. I think Mrs H was encouraged in the communications sent to her by RB  whether by post or by email  to check the fees that 
applied to her investments. She was told that these formed part of her agreement with the 
business. If Mrs H didnt want to check RBs website, she always had the option to ask RB, 
through its adviser, for hard copies of the information.
Mrs H has said the adviser who left RB, has confirmed the exit fees didnt apply from the 
outset of the agreement. But Im mindful that the adviser hasnt provided any direct evidence 
to our service and is clearly in some sort of dispute with RB. From what I can see the fees 
that applied to Mrs Hs account were highlighted to her. These may have changed over the 
years, but I think she, was likely to have been told about these changes by post or by email 
in the RBs newsletters and business updates sent to her over the years.
I note that RB says its fees are lower than many of its competitors and are designed to cover 
its costs when making a transfer out of investments. I also note what Mrs H says about the 
enormity of the fees that RB are charging. But that is a commercial decision and not 
something on which I would seek to interfere. I appreciate Mrs H has decided to transfer her 
investments to the adviser who has moved to a different business. So I cant fairly say RB 
has done anything wrong when it says its transfer out fees will apply.
I think RB has provided reasonable explanations as to why the adviser left its business at 
short notice. I cant say RB have acted unreasonably here as it did let Mrs H know along with 
other affected clients of the advisers departure as soon as it was reasonably practicable to 
do so. I appreciate Mrs Hs representative doesnt think RB has acted appropriately 
regarding the termination of the advisers contract but this is a matter for RB and the adviser. 
I dont think this caused Mrs H any detriment as RB did say it would continue to provide 
services to her if this was something she still wanted.
Mrs H considers RB is in breach of several of the regulators principles such as its duty to 
treat customers fairly. But from the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that RB has acted 
reasonably and fairly in Mrs Hs case.
For all these reasons, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman