DRN-2159454
The complaint
Miss L has complained about Debt Managers (Services) Limited chasing her for a debt that 
wasnt hers and failing to communicate with her about it.
What happened
In May 2019, Debt Managers purchased a debt. They say that the original creditor gave 
them Miss Ls email address as the contact email for that customer, though this is not 
Miss Ls debt.
Between June and September 2019, Debt Managers sent Miss L a series of emails chasing 
her about the debt.
In September 2019, Miss L told Debt Managers that the debt they were chasing her for 
wasnt hers. But Debt Managers refused to deal with Miss L since she couldnt pass security 
 since she wasnt the real debtor.
Miss L complained to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), and following this Debt 
Managers finally replied to her concerns in February 2020. They explained theyd sent 
correspondence meant for Miss L to the wrong address, which is why she hadnt heard from 
them at times. They explained that the original creditor had given them Miss Ls email. And 
they confirmed theyd removed that email from their system, as the debt wasnt hers. They 
apologised for not handling things appropriately before.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. He said Debt 
Managers shouldve listened to Miss L and recognised sooner that she wasnt the real 
account owner, so that they could give appropriate reassurance and explanations. He noted 
that they hadnt dealt with her issues until shed complained to the ICO, and felt it was unfair 
that she had to spend so many months waiting to find out what was going on and why she 
was being chased for a debt that wasnt hers. He suggested Debt Managers pay £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset theyd caused.
Debt Managers didnt agree. Contrary to their final response, they now felt that theyd acted 
appropriately. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
While of course I wouldnt expect Debt Managers to discuss any sensitive or personal details 
with the wrong person, I would expect them to take things seriously if someone tells them 
theyre being incorrectly chased for a debt. That includes investigating the matter promptly, 
putting things right, and keeping the wrongly-chased person properly updated so that they 
can be reassured.
But here, Miss L contacted Debt Managers in September 2019, and didnt receive a 
substantial update about her situation until February 2020.
It should have been obvious to Debt Managers that if they were chasing the wrong person, 
then Miss L would not have been able to pass security. So Im not sure why they delayed 
things so much here because of that. They didnt need to give her any of the real debtors 
information in order to look into her concerns about being wrongly contacted.
Im also not sure why Debt Managers are now claiming that they acted appropriately, as they 
already admitted in their final response that they did not. They chased the wrong person for 
a debt, failed to deal with her promptly and appropriately when she told them the debt wasnt 
hers, and sent correspondence to the wrong address  making Miss L think they were 
ignoring her. This all caused her unfair stress, worry, and inconvenience over the course of 
five months.
Our investigator suggested that £300 compensation was appropriate to put this right, and 
I agree.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ls complaint, and direct Debt Managers 
(Services) Limited to pay her £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman