DRN-3742250
The complaint
Mr T complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan.
CST Wealth Management Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to CST.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ts employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
At the time of the advice, Mr T was concerned about what these announcements by his 
employer meant for the security of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. Information gathered 
about his circumstances and objectives at the time were broadly as follows:
Mr T was 52 years old and single with no financial dependents. He owned a home 
valued at approximately £150,000, which had an outstanding mortgage of around 
£42,000. The mortgage had 6 years left to run. 
Mr T earned around £34,000 per year and his outgoings were said to be around 
£1,200 per month. He had no savings.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ts BSPS was approximately 
£122,387 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. 
CST said Mr T wanted to retire early if possible, at around the age of 57 or earlier.
CST advised him to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a personal pension 
plan. CST said this would allow Mr T to achieve his objectives.
Mr T accepted this advice and so transferred to a personal pension. In 2020 Mr T 
complained to CST about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
of the BSPS. In response, CST said it hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the 
financial objectives Mr T had at the time. 
Mr T referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of  CST's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, CST should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ts best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ts best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint. 
Financial viability 
As required by the regulator, to demonstrate the financial comparisons between his current 
scheme and transferring out to a personal pension, CST referred in its transfer analysis to 
critical yield rates.  
The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show 
how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. In Mr Ts case, CST said the critical yield required to match his benefits at the age of 65 was 7.34% if he took a full pension. The critical yield if 
taking a tax-free lump sum and a reduced pension at 65, was 6.09%.
In my view, these critical yield figures on their own should have been recognised by CST as 
being high and therefore difficult for Mr T to achieve if he transferred his pension out to a 
personal arrangement. The critical yield figures for an early retirement, at 57, were even 
higher, at 15.63% and 12.3% respectively. Ive noted that in the financial planning report 
CST said there was no guarantee that achieving the critical yield every year could happen. 
But I think this was a significant understatement because these figures were very clearly 
showing, in my view, that there was every reason to suggest Mr T would be worse off in 
retirement if he transferred away. 
I say this because, the advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final 
Guidance FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to 
October 2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our 
website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4% per year for 12 years to the NRA, which is well below the main critical yield figures 
above. And the discount rate assuming an early retirement at the age of 57 was even lower, 
given the transferred funds would be invested for much less time.
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate was 8%, the middle projection 
rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. And at the time, because CST assessed 
Mr Ts attitude to risk (ATR) as lowest-medium, I think a figure at the lower end of these 
projections was most relevant, again well short of the critical yields. 
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, CST also made mention of the PPF, which it described as 
a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the sponsoring 
employer becomes insolvent. It said the critical yield to match the benefits available through 
the PPF at age 65 was 6.42% per year if Mr T took a pension under the reduced terms of the 
PPF and 5.99% per year if he opted to take a tax-free cash element and a further reduced 
pension. These figures were also showing Mr T would likely be worse off in the longer term 
by transferring out, and in any event, CST itself says Mr T didnt want to go into the PPF.
Further to these things, Ive noted that CST also said that in order to purchase an annuity to 
provide benefits of equal value to the existing scheme at retirement at age 65, the funds 
required would be around £266,756. This was over double the value of Mr Ts quoted CETV 
and so I think it provides a revealing window into the real value Mr T would lose if he 
transferred out to a personal pension plan.
Ive noted the scenarios CST gave showing how Mr Ts transferred funds might last him well 
into his old age. But these were not comparing like-for-like and they did not reflect the 
guarantees and benefits he was being advised to give up. They were also based on past 
performance which was above Mr Ts ATR. Some also accounted for a reduction in what 
was drawn from the funds upon him reaching state retirement age.
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, CSTs figures, 
shown in its financial planning review and transfer analysis documents in November 2017, 
clearly showed that transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr T would receive 
lower pension benefits in the longer term, when compared against the BSPS2. And I think 
its safe to say the same is true of the PPF scheme too. Of course, to be clear, CSTs recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme. Rather, 
CST said Mr T had different reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the other 
considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite providing 
overall lower benefits. 
Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
In its financial planning review CST recommended a transfer to a personal pension based on 
what it said were Mr Ts objectives which Ive summarised:
Mr T wanted to retire early and pay his mortgage off
He wanted greater flexibility in accessing cash and to access control over his pension 
The death benefits were inflexible and didnt match what Mr T wanted and he wanted 
a legacy for his grown-up children
He lacked trust in his employer
So, it seems that CST also recommended the transfer for the flexibility and control it offered 
to Mr T. I have therefore considered all of these issues in turn. 
Retiring early / paying off his mortgage
CST said Mr T wanted to retire early. However, I think its fair to say that Mr T himself 
recognised this had to be within his means and Ive noted that in the fact-find, for example, 
Mr T said hed like to retire at 57, or 55, if it could be afforded. 
However, CSTs job here, in providing regulated financial advice for which Mr T was paying, 
wasnt just to transact what he may have thought he wanted. Its job was to provide advice 
that was in his best interests. That, in my view, included being realistic with Mr T and there 
may have been the opportunity in this case to tell Mr T that his retirement aspirations may 
not be achievable  or certainly that early retirement might need to wait beyond the ages of 
55 or 57. 
I say this because Mr Ts pension was relatively modest when considering retirement at 
those ages. And whilst I dont doubt that Mr T might have genuinely hoped to do this, Ive 
seen nothing that shows this was anything more than something he aspired to do at that 
stage, as opposed to being part of a formulated plan. In fact, the comments recorded on the 
various documents Ive seen tend to add to the aspirational nature of what Mr T wanted to 
do, with comments made about his income over the next five years predicted to be stable, 
but with other comments suggesting him emigrating to one of two countries in as little as 
three years.
However, even if I were to consider that Mr Ts retirement plans were more advanced than 
those set out at the time of the advice in 2017 - and he really did want to retire early - I think 
CST should have more comprehensively assessed the possibility of achieving this goal 
whilst being a member of the BSPS2 or the PPF. Retiring early was possible from both the 
BSPS2 and the PPF but I think CST portrayed these options negatively because of the 
reductions that would be applied due to him accessing the pension early and drawing on it 
for longer. I dont think this negative perception helped Mr T make an informed decision.CST said Mr T wanted to have an annual income of around £12,000 per year in his 
retirement. However, as Ive explained above, retirement for Mr T, aged 52 years old, was 
most likely still quite a few years away. In support of that view, I see Mr T actually told CST, 
that he was uncertain about whether hed take a tax-free lump sum upon retirement, 
because this was still too far off to make up his mind. I also think the £12,000 figure could 
only really be an estimate at this point, particularly as Mr T was considering moving 
overseas where the cost of living and tax arrangements could differ significantly from the UK. 
Even if I were to accept £12,000 was roughly what Mr T needed to fund a retirement, Ive 
seen nothing that shows the BSPS2 wouldnt have adequately helped meet these needs 
anyway, providing Mr T adjusted his retirement parameters to suit how much money he 
actually had available. 
For example, in its transfer analysis CST said that Mr Ts estimated annual pension upon his 
NRA was £7,392 per year under BSPS2 at the age of 65. At the age of 57 it was £4,921. If 
actuarial reductions caused by accessing the pension too early was a genuine concern, then 
Mr T could have been advised to wait a little longer before accessing his benefits under 
either scheme. If hed chosen to plan his retirement under the BSPS2 to, say, 62 rather than 
57  still three years below the NRA  then this would have resulted in a far less reduction in 
the pension benefits. It would have also substantially narrowed the gap until Mr T qualified 
for the full state pension, at the age of 67.
However, in addition to the BSPS2 or PPF income sources, I dont think CST promoted the 
additional income Mr T would enjoy at retirement because he had also recently joined his 
employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme. He had already accrued a significant 
sum in this pension and both he and his employer would be contributing to this for at least 
another ten years, if retiring at around 62 which wasnt that far beyond his preferences. In 
my view, he would have then been in a good position: the DB pension (BSPS2) was 
guaranteed and index linked; and the DC pension had the added flexibility were his 
circumstances to change. I think this fitted in very well with Mr Ts likely financial needs 
going forward.
Ive noted Mr T had some health conditions. These could have added some uncertainty, but 
there was no information at the time suggesting these were so serious as to dominate what 
Mr T decided to do or that hed have to retire ahead of the NRA. The fact-find said there 
were no other factors influencing his retirement and the eventual recommendation was not 
influenced by any health matters, even though CST says these are relevant now. Viewed 
from the time, it was reasonable to say Mr T could work until he was 65.
CST also linked transferring out and accessing the benefits early to Mr T paying off his 
mortgage. It said he could use the tax-free lump sum from a personal pension to do this. But 
again, there was no real detail around this and certainly nothing to show why irreversibly 
exiting a DB pension scheme was necessary to pay his mortgage off in Mr Ts 
circumstances. 
Mr Ts residential mortgage had £42,000 outstanding at the time of the advice, with 6 years 
left remaining. But if he transferred out to a personal pension plan, Mr T couldnt yet access 
his pension for a few more years anyway. And Ive seen nothing to show that his mortgage 
wasnt being reduced in the normal way in the interim, by being repaid each month. So, in 
six years it would be paid off completely. 
CST hasnt therefore shown why he couldnt just continue to pay the mortgage down as 
planned under the normal terms hed taken it out under. It also seems to me that other 
options were available to him if paying off his mortgage really was essential to Mr T. He was 
earning £34,000 per year and his outgoings were said to be £1,200 per month. And whilst 
accepting these figures can often be generalised estimates, I think there was considerable scope for Mr T, a single man, to overpay his mortgage moderately in the meantime to help 
achieve his retirement goals. Transferring out of his pension just wasnt required for this.
Flexibility
CST also referred to Mr T being able to access the maximum tax-free cash via a personal 
pension and get more money this way. 
Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when 
compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes 
are calculated differently. But CST should have been telling Mr T at the time that extra tax-
free lump sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially from the age of 55, also 
came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would 
obviously decrease. This is especially true when considering that Mr Ts funds, in pension 
terms, were relatively modest.
So, whilst I accept the notion of accessing more tax-free cash might have been appealing, 
this needed to be considered against the other options Mr T faced, including opting for the 
BSPS2. 
In summary, I therefore think Mr Ts circumstances were much more aligned to him retiring 
from a DB scheme in this case, such as BSPS2, and drawing this pension in the way it was 
originally intended. I think CSTs advice should have reflected this.
Death benefits 
CST says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension would 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr T died. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr T. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provision. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think CST explored to what 
extent Mr T was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
Mr T was no longer married, so CST implied this made the death benefits in BSPS2 
irrelevant to his situation. However, I dont think CSTs advice was in Mr Ts best interests in 
considering death benefits. As his pension wasnt particularly large in comparison to some 
DB schemes, if Mr T did transfer as CST was advising him to do, there may not have been a 
large sum left anyway upon Mr Ts passing. In fact I think CSTs advice conflicts with itself in 
as much as it was advising him that retiring early was possible, whereupon he could start to 
draw an annual sum from the funds and even take 25% out as a lump-sum. Clearly, if Mr T 
did this, the amount left to pass on if he died would be much reduced. 
Furthermore, Mr T could have nominated someone as the beneficiary of any funds 
remaining in his DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr T had already ensured part of his pension 
wouldnt die with him. The documents from the time also tend to show he had existing life 
cover where members of his family were named beneficiaries.Im therefore clear that in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a 
transfer to a personal pension justified the likely decrease of other valuable retirement 
benefits Mr T would enjoy through the BSPS2.  
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
CST said Mr T wanted control of his pension going forward and its investment strategy. 
However, theres no evidence of what his personal involvement in money market type 
investing actually was. Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that Mr T really had a 
capacity or desire to manage his pension if he transferred out to the extent that it was 
influential in his decision about what to do. There were certainly no advantages around cost 
in transferring out to a personal plan. In my view, CSTs statements about control over the 
funds are generic, and they dont explain how Mr Ts personal control would be in his best 
interests.
However, I do accept that Mr T, like many employees of his company, was concerned about 
his pension. His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the 
scheme and CST said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the 
PPF and CST said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr T was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was CSTs obligation to give Mr T an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated Mr Ts concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
Even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that CST should have 
reassured Mr T that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr T through the PPF would have still provided a significant contribution 
to the income he thought he needed at retirement, and he was very unlikely to be able to 
exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR. And although the increases in payment in the 
PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. 
So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to CSTs recommendation to Mr T to 
transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Other issues
CST has since supplied an analysis of Mr Ts lifestyle and financial circumstances in the 
years following the transfer. I think its fair to summarise this as CST saying the need to 
transfer has been shown to be right after all. It also included performance data showing the 
transferred funds to have grown at certain points. However, to use this information with the 
benefit of hindsight, does not abrogate CSTs responsibilities at the point of it providing 
regulated advice in 2017. Ive looked here at what CST ought to have done and so my 
findings reflect the advice CST provided at the time.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr T. But the 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr T needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr T was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr T was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. I think CST ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for this 
reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ts best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties at the time that BSPS2 was going ahead. Mr T probably still 
had several years before he could afford to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in 
his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering 
the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. 
By opting into the BSPS2, Mr T would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. 
On this basis, I think CST should have advised Mr T to opt into the BSPS2. 
I have considered whether Mr T would have transferred to a personal pension in any event. I 
accept that CST disclosed some of the risks of transferring to Mr T, and provided him with a 
certain amount of information. But ultimately it advised Mr T to transfer out, and I think he 
relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr T would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against CSTs advice. I say this because Mr T asked CST for advice and this pension also 
accounted for most of his retirement provision at that time. So, if CST had provided him with 
clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Ts concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if CST had explained Mr T was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think CST should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for CSTs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr T would have 
most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd been 
given suitable advice. So, CST should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison 
purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr T whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. His representative 
didnt make a choice when we asked, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he 
doesnt want to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am therefore satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a 
loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr T. So, compensation should be based on his 
normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
CST may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ts 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date CST receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes CST to pay Mr T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect CST to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
I have also considered the impact on Mr T of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our 
investigator recommended that a sum of £300 should be paid to Mr T by CST for what she 
referred to as the inconvenience and stress caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken 
into consideration Mr Ts age, wider financial circumstances and the amount hed built up in 
his pension to that date. Also, by retirement this DB pension would still have been a 
significant part of his overall pension entitlement so I think the thought of losing benefits 
would have negatively impacted Mr T. So, I agree that CST should also pay Mr T £300 for 
the distress caused by the unsuitable advice which has likely had an impact on his 
retirement planning
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Im upholding this complaint and I now direct CST Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
CST Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr T any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require CST 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr T any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
CST Wealth Management Limited pays Mr T the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T.
If Mr T accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on CST Wealth 
Management Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr 
T can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman