DRN-4403897
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy Premier Insurance Company Limited indemnified her the incorrect amount 
when she made a claim for stolen items under her motor insurance policy.
Any reference to Premier includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events.
Mrs H has a motor insurance policy which is underwritten by Premier. She made a 
claim on the policy when her car was broken in to and personal effects were stolen.
Premier accepted the claim and paid £100 in respect of the stolen personal items. 
Mrs H complained saying shed been given conflicting information as to the policy 
limit in respect of personal effects. She said the policy states the limit as £200, and 
so, she considers this to be the amount shes entitled to. 
Premier confirmed £200 was the correct amount and subsequently paid Mrs H an 
additional £100. 
Mrs H was unhappy about the time it took Premier to pay the additional amount and 
so, brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended Premier pay £50 compensation to recognise it had caused avoidable 
delays. 
Mrs H accepted the Investigators findings but Premier thought the amount of 
compensation was unreasonable and so, asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached. Whilst I note 
Premier has now paid Mrs H the additional £100 in respect of personal effects and 
therefore, settled the claim in line with the policy terms, from what Ive seen it caused 
avoidable delays by not paying the correct amount at the earliest opportunity. 
I say this because it was only after Mrs H spent time challenging the amount initially 
paid to her that Premier acknowledged the policy limit was £200 - not £100  and 
agreed to pay the full amount.
From what Ive seen, it would have always been apparent to Premier that the policy 
limit was £200 as this is clearly set out in its policy. So, I think the misinformation in 
respect of this  where Mrs H was incorrectly told it was £100  could have been 
avoided too. 
Overall, Im satisfied Premier caused avoidable delays and preventable 
inconvenience, and so, I consider it reasonable to direct it to pay compensation to 
recognise this. And I consider £50 compensation to be reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Premier Insurance Company Limited to 
pay Mrs H £50 compensation. 
Premier must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs H 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman