DRN-3537973
The complaint
Mr B and Miss M complain that Santander UK Plc cost them money when the placed a block 
on their accounts. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill summarise what happened and focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
Mr B and Miss M sold a property and paid the funds into a joint current account with 
Santander. Mr B then moved the funds to a sole savings account to accrue interest in 
July 2021. 
Santander blocked both accounts, as it had concerns regarding the credits paid in. 
Mr B said that Santander had been willing to pay the money from Mr Bs sole account 
into a sole account in Miss Ms name  as the documentation showed the property 
had been hers. But Mr B said hed been making payments for the house for a 
number of years. 
Santander said it suspended the accounts until it received confirmation of entitlement 
to the funds. And it removed the block in August 2021. 
Mr B and Miss M said theyve lost out financially due to actions of Santander. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He concluded that Santander had acted 
fairly and in line with its legal and regulatory obligations and account terms. But as 
Mr B and Miss M disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  Ill explain why.
I appreciate that Mr B and Miss M were without their funds for a period of time, and I 
recognise this has had a financial impact on them. But I have to think about what, if anything, 
Santander has done wrong.
As Santander explained, it takes fraud issues very seriously. It has a duty to protect itself 
and its customers from fraud. It explained that once its attention has been drawn to a 
potentially fraudulent payment on an account, it needs to act quickly and reasonably. It said 
it had no alternative but to suspend the account until it received confirmation of entitlement 
to funds, and the source of them. I dont feel this is unreasonable. 
I cant fairly say that Santander has acted in error by flagging a potentially fraudulent 
payment and suspending the accounts to keep the funds safe until it was satisfied with the 
circumstances surrounding the payment.
While I recognise that being without these funds has affected Mr B and Miss M, and Im 
sorry to hear about the financial strain on them during this time, I cant fairly hold Santander 
liable for these losses.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman