DRN-3027324
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the cover provided by her travel insurance policy, which is 
underwritten by U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
What happened
Mrs L has annual travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with her building 
society. As Mrs L is over the age of 70, the policy terms say that she needs to pay an 
additional premium to be covered by the policy. Mrs L paid £164.40 in May 2019 for the 
forthcoming policy year.
On 22 September 2019, Mrs L travelled abroad and stayed in a hotel. Unfortunately, two 
days into the trip, Mrs L developed symptoms of food poisoning. She said the symptoms 
were so bad that she had to stay in her hotel room for the remainder of the trip. She was 
able to take her pre-booked flight back to the UK on 29 September 2019 and saw her GP on 
the following day, as she was still unwell.
Mrs L got in touch with UKI to make a claim on her travel insurance policy. However, UKI 
said the circumstances of her claim werent covered by the policy terms. As Mrs L was 
unhappy with UKIs decision and with the cover provided by her policy; she asked us to look 
into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. She thought the policy 
terms required Mrs L to pay an annual upgrade fee in order to be covered at all. And she 
didnt think the claim was covered by the terms of Mrs Ls policy. Mrs L provided a letter from 
her doctor showing shed sought medical assistance the day after she returned to the UK, for 
gastroenteritis. But the investigator didnt think this showed Mrs L was confined to her room 
or that shed needed to return to the UK early.
Mrs L disagreed. She didnt think the investigator had reached a fair outcome. She didnt 
think the investigator had specified what information wed need from the GP in order to 
uphold her complaint and shed incurred costs of £40 in obtaining this evidence. She felt 
shed received unprofessional advice upfront from UKI when she called to make a claim.  
Shed remained in her room due to the symptoms she was experiencing and couldnt have 
returned home early. She also told us that she continues to suffer from bouts of the illness 
now. She considered that the investigation had been weighted in UKIs favour.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs L, I think UKI has treated her fairly. Ill 
explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mrs Ls policy and the circumstances of her claim to decide whether UKI treated her 
fairly.
Was it fair for UKI to charge Mrs L an upgrade premium?
Ive first considered the terms of Mrs Ls policy, as these form the basis of her contract with 
UKI. Page 2 sets out a section called Booking a Trip? which sets out a series of questions 
for policyholders to consider. One of these questions asks:
Are you or your partner aged 70 or over? The policy goes on to say: If yes, then remember 
to buy an Age Upgrade before you book a tripYou will not be covered by the policy if you 
have not purchased this upgrade.
Its clear that Mrs L is aged over 70 years. As such, in order to be covered at all under any 
section of the policy, she was required to buy and pay for an age upgrade. This means I 
think it was fair for UKI to charge Mrs L an upgrade premium.
Was it fair for UKI to turn down Mrs Ls claim?
UKI appears to have initially looked at Mrs Ls claim under the Cutting Short your Trip 
section of the policy. This section provides cover of up to £3000 for a policyholders unused 
holiday expenses if they have to cut short their trip due a to a list of insured events. One of 
these listed events is a policyholders illness. 
In this case, its common ground that Mrs Ls illness didnt result in her returning to the UK 
early. And she was able to fly back to the UK on her return flight. Strictly then, her holiday 
wasnt cut short, as she remained in her pre-booked accommodation and was able to travel 
home as planned. I think the policy terms make it clear that Mrs Ls claim wasnt covered 
under this section.
I accept though that Mrs L was unwell and so Ive gone on to think about whether it would be 
fair for me to direct UKI to step away from a strict interpretation of the policy terms. Ive 
borne in mind the letter from Mrs Ls GP which confirmed that hed seen her the day after 
she flew back to the UK. At this point, Mrs L was experiencing shivering and other gastric 
symptoms and the GP diagnosed gastroenteritis. So I do think its most likely that Mrs L was 
unwell and suffering similar symptoms while she was away.
However, I dont think theres enough available evidence to demonstrate that Mrs Ls holiday 
was effectively cut short by her illness. I say that because it doesnt appear that Mrs L 
sought any medical advice while she was away in relation to her illness. And theres nothing 
to suggest that Mrs L (or her husband) called UKIs medical assistance line while they were 
away to discuss her symptoms or investigate whether it could arrange for her to be assessed 
and potentially treated. While the GPs letter provides a more definitive diagnosis, it doesnt 
indicate that Mrs L needed to be confined to her room; set out the duration of her symptoms 
or suggest that it wouldve been medically necessary for her to cut short the trip. 
On this basis then, while I sympathise with Mrs Ls position, because I understand shes still 
suffering symptoms of the same illness two years on, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
direct UKI to pay this claim outside of the policy terms, based on the available information. 
On the facts of this case, I think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to turn down the claim. Id 
also add that while I appreciate Mrs L is unhappy that our investigator didnt explain what 
information the GP ought to have included in his letter, its a fundamental principle of 
insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim on their policy. So we wont tell a policyholder what information they will need to provide in order to demonstrate 
their claim should be met. Were independent and impartial of both parties and we weigh up 
the evidence were provided with.
Did UKI provide poor service?
Unfortunately, UKI didnt provide us with a full copy of a call between its original claims 
handler and Mrs L. I appreciate Mrs L feels she was provided with poor service and treated 
unprofessionally. Ive noted though that in its final response to Mrs Ls complaint, UKI 
accepted that the call handler didnt handle the call in the way it would expect. It 
acknowledged that the call handler didnt give Mrs L a clear explanation about why her claim 
wasnt covered and it said it would be passing on feedback to the call handlers team leader. 
Im satisfied then that UKI accepted that its call handler didnt deal with Mrs Ls call as they 
shouldve done and that it took appropriate steps to put things right. So Im not telling UKI to 
take any further action on this point.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman