DRN-1674269
The complaint
Mr H complains about Tesco Personal Finance Plc, trading as Tesco Bank, and their failure 
to make him aware that setting up a repayment plan would be reported on his credit file.
What happened
In 2018, Mr H called Tesco to explore whether hed be able to reduce the contractual 
monthly payments on his personal loan. He explained that he was in financial difficulty due 
to his personal circumstances but believed this would be resolved within 12 months.
Tesco proposed and agreed a repayment plan where Mr H would pay a reduced monthly 
figure for 12 months. As Mr H wasnt meeting the required monthly amount, the account 
accrued arrears during this time. This was explained in a letter Tesco sent to Mr H 
confirming the plan in July 2018.
But, Mr H complained he wasnt told on the call that the repayment plan would be recorded 
on his credit file. Because of this, Mr H says hes been declined a mortgage. As Mr H wasnt 
told of this potential implication, he wanted Tesco to waive the arrears and remove the 
markers on his credit file so hed be able to refinance and move the outstanding loan 
amount.
Tesco responded and upheld Mr Hs complaint. They agreed they didnt explain the effect 
the repayment plan would have on his credit file on the initial call, so offered £150 to 
recognise this impact this caused. But, they explained they wouldnt remove the markers on 
Mr Hs credit file because they were obliged to report accurately the way Mr H handled his 
account. Mr H was unhappy with this response so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think Tesco needed to do anything 
further. They agreed Tesco had made an error on the phone call by not explaining the credit 
file implications. But, they thought the letter Tesco sent after the call explained the impact 
the repayment plan would have. They also thought Tesco had acted fairly by reporting the 
repayment plan on Mr Hs credit file as they had an obligation to do so. So, they thought the 
£150 Tesco had already offered was a fair one. Mr H didnt agree with this and explained 
accepting this view would leave him in serious financial difficulty. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
First, I want to reassure Mr H that I recognise the difficulties hes faced and I understand this 
isnt the outcome he was hoping for. Ive no doubt that it wouldve been upsetting for him 
when understood the impact the repayment plan had on his credit file and the implications of 
this. But, for me to have considered the resolution Mr H was seeking, Id need to see that 
Tesco had made no reference at all to the impact on his credit file. And then, to be sure that Mr H wouldve acted differently if they had. Unfortunately, this isnt the case and Ill explain 
why.
Its not in dispute that, on the initial call,  Tesco didnt explain the impact the repayment plan 
would have on Mr Hs credit file. I dont think this is reasonable and I think Mr H should be 
compensated for this.
But, crucially, Tesco sent a letter to Mr H on 24 July which says Well let credit reference 
agencies know about your repayment plan before going on to explain that you may find 
that your ability to obtain further credit is affected. I think this makes it reasonably clear to 
Mr H that his credit file would be affected and the potential implications.
I cant see that Mr H queried this after receiving the letter and instead he made the agreed 
revised monthly payment through to April 2019. When I consider this together with the 
financial difficulties Mr H explained he was experiencing at the time, I think its most likely 
that Mr H wouldve continued with repayment plan even if hed been told on the phone about 
the credit file impact. 
I also think this letter gave a clear summary of the arrears the account would accrue each 
month the smaller revised payments were made. So, I think Mr H was reasonably aware that 
arrears would be built and that hed be expected to pay these off at the end of the repayment 
period.
Again, I understand that on the initial call, Mr H wasnt told everything he shouldve been. 
But importantly, Tesco are required to accurately report the way Mr H managed his account 
to credit referencing agencies. During the repayment period, I think Mr H reasonably knew 
he was making a smaller payment than his contractual amount and that arrears were being 
accrued. So, I cant say that Tesco have done anything wrong by reporting this as they are 
expected and I dont think it would be fair for me to say that the credit file should be 
amended.
So, I think the £150 Tesco has paid Mr H reasonably recognises the upset Mr H felt when he 
realised his credit file had been affected and that hed not been told on the initial call. But, I 
dont think Tesco need to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Tesco Personal 
Finance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman