The complaint
Mr F says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr F took two instalment loans from Lending Stream in January and April 2013. The loans 
were for £155 and £115 respectively and were repayable in five monthly instalments. The 
largest monthly instalment for the January loan was £85.25 and for the April loan was 
£63.25.
An adjudicator considered Mr Fs complaint but did not think it should be upheld. Mr F didnt 
agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr F could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Before lending to Mr F, Lending Stream asked him to provide some information about his 
income and expenditure. For both loans Mr F told Lending Stream he was working part time, 
earning £500 per month. The total monthly expenditure Mr F declared was £120 for the first 
loan and £50 for the second. Lending Stream doesnt appear to have asked Mr F to break 
his expenditure down into categories.
Im not convinced that Lending Streams checks were proportionate  at least not for the 
second loan. Lending Streams credit checks show that between the loans, the value of 
Mr Fs active accounts increased from £100 to £1,600  yet his declared expenditure 
decreased to just £50 in total and Lending Stream appears to have lent on that basis, 
without asking any follow up questions. Lending Stream hasnt explained what it did to take 
Mr Fs other debts into account  or even if it did this. I think it ought to have done this, 
particularly given Mr Fs low monthly income.
Despite this, I dont think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. Had Lending Stream taken 
additional steps and taken a proportionate look at Mr Fs expenditure, I think it would likely 
DRN-2098287still have been able to fairly approve the April loan  given the largest instalment was only 
£63.25. A proportionate look at Mr Fs outgoings wouldnt in my view have included going as 
far as asking Mr F for proof of his income and expenditure and I think its unlikely asking 
some follow-up questions after the online application wouldve revealed enough information 
to demonstrate that the April loan was unaffordable.
For these reasons, Im not upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman