DRN-3656913
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed his account and recorded a 
fraud prevention marker against him. 
Background
In February 2022, Mr As Santander account received a transfer of £90 from a third-party. 
The funds were immediately withdrawn from a cash machine. Shortly afterwards, Santander 
received a notification from the bank which sent the payment stating that the person whod 
transferred the funds to Mr As account had reported being a victim of fraud. Santander 
reviewed Mr As account, decided to close it and also record a fraud prevention marker 
against Mr A.
Mr A was unhappy with Santanders actions and made a complaint. Santander looked at        
Mr As complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr A remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to 
our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Santander has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr A is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Santander must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Mr As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Santander also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr A was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. This can include Mr A allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive 
an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr As complaint, I need to decide whether I think Santander had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr As account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Santander 
has done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr As 
account in February 2022, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr A was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr A says he was tricked into accepting the payment and didnt know it was fraudulent. He 
says that he was out shopping with his friend when he confirmed that hed left his card at 
home. Mr As friend asked him if he could transfer the funds to his account and then Mr A 
could withdraw them for him to use. Mr A says he agreed to do this as hed previously 
helped his friend in this way previously. 
When told that the funds came from a female, Mr A said he thought that the funds were 
being sent by his friends sister for his friend to use. Finally, Mr A provided copies of 
messages which he says he sent to his friend in an attempt to persuade him to explain what 
happened to Santander. 
Ive thought about what Mr A has said. But Im afraid Im not persuaded by his version of 
events. Mr A said that he didnt think that his friends request was out of the ordinary 
because hed withdrawn funds in this way for him before. But Ive looked at Mr As 
statements and I cant see any credits to Mr As account from the person whose name he 
has given us. And I cant see any other payments from the person he thought was his 
friends sister too. 
Furthermore, Im particularly concerned that Mr A says he trusted his friend and didnt think 
he was doing anything wrong when hes also told us that he previously had an account with 
a different bank closed, under similar circumstances, a couple of years earlier. In these 
circumstances, its difficult for me to accept that he wasnt aware of the risks of allowing 
someone to use his account in this way. And as this is the case, I cant reasonably say he 
wasnt complicit in the activity which took place on his account. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Santander did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr As account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not Mr A was complicit in this. As this is the 
case, I dont think that it was unfair for Santander to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Mr As account. The terms and conditions of Mr As account 
permitted Santander to close it where it was used in any way to give rise to reasonable 
suspicion of fraud or other criminal activities. Ive already explained why I think Santander 
was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr As account had been used for fraudulent 
purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in recording the fraud prevention marker. 
As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted Santander to close Mr As account. And Im therefore not upholding    
Mr As complaint on this basis either.I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr A  especially in light of the ongoing impact 
hes said the fraud marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, Mr A 
might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as he applies for a 
Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman