DRN-3962769
The complaint
Ms W has complained about the service she has received from Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited (Hargreaves Lansdown). She said it didnt communicate properly with 
her, so she couldnt make an informed decision about corporate action on her shares. She 
said she has made investment losses because of this, and it should pay compensation to 
her.
What happened
Ms W held shares in Electra private equity Plc on Hargreaves Lansdowns trading platform. 
She had held these shares for many years, but not always held with Hargreaves Lansdown. 
Ms W has explained that they were transferred over from a third party to Hargreaves 
Lansdown in 2015. 
Ms W said she paid a monthly amount to buy Electra shares on a regular basis up until 
recently and saw the investment as a retirement fund for herself.
Ms W said Hargreaves Lansdown had not communicated properly with her that her Electra 
shares had demerged. This happened during October and November 2021, where Hostmore 
Plc had as part of the demerger, separated from Electra and was listed as a separate 
company. Ms W from this point, held shares in Hostmore and Electra, but then Electra also 
changed its name to Unbound Group. 
Ms W said Hargreaves Lansdown should have informed her of the board meeting where the 
corporate action was decided and the outcome of this meeting. She said had she known 
about the disinvestment she would have withdrawn her money immediately. She said she 
received no paper correspondence from Hargreaves Lansdown notifying her that the shares 
were to be demerged into two separate companies instead. 
Ms W said that once the demerger took place, the two company shares that she held in her 
name instead, plummeted in price and value. She said once she saw this, she was only able 
to sell the shares for a fraction of what the Electra shares were worth before the corporate 
action took place.
Ms W said she doesnt understand why Hargreaves Lansdown didnt communicate properly 
with her about the demerger before it happened, so she could have made an informed 
choice about the shares and done something about it before the corporate action happened. 
She saw that she did receive paper letters from Hargreaves Lansdown asking if she wanted 
to invest more in Unbound Group, with it doing this on three occasions. She said she doesnt 
understand why it would send letters for this, but not about the more important corporate 
action.
Ms W said she phoned Hargreaves Lansdowns helpdesk after the demerger and a 
representative told her It often takes time for shares to stabilise  it will right itself. She said 
after she was told this, the shares went down further and when she did sell the shares, they 
were a lot lower in value that at any point.  
Ms W said she would like compensation for Hargreaves Lansdowns inactivity and lack of 
help or knowledge. She said they need to be held accountable for their lack of action. 
Hargreaves Lansdown said in response that its role is to provide a brokerage service to Ms 
W, should she wish to trade any shares that she holds with it, on an execution only basis. It 
said it hasnt given advice to Ms W and has only held stock of hers on its nominee account. 
It added that it is not associated with Electra at all and has not had any say or involvement 
with the management of the stock. 
Hargreaves Lansdown said Ms Ws account was set to a paperless service, so all 
communication from it has been sent via secure message. It said an email was sent notifying 
Ms W of the secure message it sent about Electra shares demerging. It said it listened to the 
calls Ms W made to the help desk in 2022 and heard how its staff explained how the 
demerger would work and how it can affect the trading price of stock. It said no advice was 
given to Ms W. It said it was satisfied it had not acted in error or incorrectly advised Ms W 
about what to do. 
It later added that while it has aimed to communicate in line with Ms Ws contact 
preferences, there are times when paperless clients may receive communication by post and 
that it has discretion about when it does this. It says this is stated within the terms and 
conditions of the account.  
Ms W was not happy with Hargreaves Lansdowns response and referred her complaint to 
our service.  
An investigator looked into Ms Ws complaint. She said she was not upholding Ms Ws 
complaint as she couldnt see Hargreaves Lansdown had done anything wrong in its 
capacity as a broker. She said it provided sufficient notification of the corporate action and 
said the calls were not below what she would expect in the circumstances.
Ms W is not in agreement with the investigators view. So as this is the case her complaint 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding Ms Ws complaint. I will explain why:
Ms W said Hargreaves Lansdown did not communicate properly to her the corporate 
action in relation to shares she held in Electra. The company demerged and so after 
this action, Ms W instead held shares in Hostmore Plc and then Electra changed its 
name to Unbound Group. So, she held shares in these two companies.  
Ms W said that if Hargreaves Lansdown had communicated the demerger to her 
properly, she would have been able to make an informed choice about it and would 
have withdrawn her money straight away. But I can see that it did send her a secure 
message about the demerger of Electra on 21 October 2021, and it sent her an 
email to notify her about this message as well on the same day. I can see from a 
screenshot sent to our service from Hargreaves Lansdown, that the email stated, 
You have a new secure message - a deadline applies so please read it without 
delay. Ms Ws account preferences had been set to a paperless service, and Hargreaves 
Lansdown has said it would aim to communicate any messages to her through its 
secure messaging service. 
When I look at all of this and read the terms and conditions of the execution only 
service that Hargreaves Lansdown were providing to Ms W, I dont think it did 
anything other than what it said it was going to do: It communicated news of the 
corporate action using the method that it said it would aim to use where possible.
Ms W said she received three letters from Hargreaves Lansdown about buying more 
shares in unbound. She says she doesnt understand why it did this to seek 
additional investment but chose not to write to her regarding the corporate action. 
Hargreaves Lansdown has said in response it will look to communicate based on its 
clients preference but there are times where it may send out communication by 
post. It says this is stated within the account terms and conditions. 
Again, I can see that it has communicated details about the corporate action on 21 
October 2021 using the communication preference that had been selected on Ms 
Ws account. It also backed this up with an email on the same day. Ms W had a 
deadline of a week to respond so the information provided was time sensitive. But 
Hargreaves Lansdown mentioned this within its email. So, on balance, I think it did 
communicate details of the corporate action to Ms W. On this occasion, she simply 
didnt read it in time to act in the way she said she would have done. 
Then Hargreaves Lansdown sent letters to Ms W about buying shares in Unbound 
and although this wasnt her preference, the terms of her account state that 
Hargreaves Lansdown has discretion to do this. I dont think Hargreaves Lansdown 
has acted unreasonably here when it has done so. 
I have listened to three call recordings carefully and heard what the representatives 
from Hargreaves Lansdown said to Ms W when she called them about the Electra 
demerger. I can hear the representative on each occasion explain what had 
happened regarding the demerger and answer Ms Ws questions within its capacity 
as an execution only broker. I dont think it did anything wrong during these calls 
either.  
I have reviewed all the information provided by the parties and in doing so, I cant 
see that Hargreaves Lansdown is responsible for any failings on this occasion when 
it communicated with Ms W about the corporate action taken by Electra. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Ms W, and I acknowledge the strength 
of her feelings about what has happened here. But based on everything I have read and the 
findings I have given I dont think Hargreaves Lansdown has done anything wrong. It follows 
that I dont uphold her complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman