DRN-3469146
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc has turned down a
cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr and Mrs W booked a skiing trip to a country Ill call F. They booked
chalet accommodation with a company Ill refer to as M. They were due to travel on 12 April
2020, along with another family. Mr and Mrs W held an annual Art and Private Client 
multiproduct insurance policy, which included travel cover.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On
14 March 2020, Fs government closed the countrys ski resorts and on 15 March 2020, it
imposed further restrictions on travel and movement. And on 17 March 2020, the Foreign,
Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised UK nationals against all but
essential travel abroad.
Ms agent let Mr and Mrs Ws travelling party know that M would no longer be able to provide
the chalet accommodation. Neither did M provide a refund of the accommodation costs,
although Mr and Mrs W do appear to have received a refund of their flight costs.
Subsequently, on 9 April 2020, Mr and Mrs Ws son began to suffer from symptoms of
Covid-19 and therefore, the family isolated in accordance with prevailing government
regulations.
Mr and Mrs W made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs associated with the
cancellation of their trip.
Ecclesiastical turned down the claim. It said the circumstances of it werent covered by the
policy terms.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with Ecclesiasticals decision and they asked us to look into
their complaint.
Our investigator thought that this complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged that the
policy didnt cover Mr and Mrs Ws situation. But she noted that the policy specifically
excluded claims if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice. So she concluded that Mr
and Mrs W wouldnt have been covered if theyd travelled on their trip and they wouldnt
have been covered for cancelling it either. She didnt think this was a fair and reasonable
position for Mr and Mrs W to have been left in. So she recommended that Ecclesiastical
should reassess Mr and Mrs Ws claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 April 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought it had been fair for Ecclesiastical to turn down this claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr and Mrs Ws policy and the available evidence, to decide whether Ecclesiastical
treated them fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mr and Mrs W found themselves was completely
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, that when the insurance was
taken out, on 1 April 2019, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt
have been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore,
Ecclesiasticals obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs W are limited by the terms,
conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ws policy says that Ecclesiastical will pay for a policyholders irrecoverable
cancellation costs if they have to cancel their trip because of one of a list of specific insured
events. The Cancellation or curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Ws policy says
Ecclesiastical will pay such costs if a trip is cancelled for one of the following reasons:
1.the death, serious injury or serious illness occurring or manifesting itself during the
operative time of cover of the:
a. Insured person, or
b. person with whom the Insured person is travelling or had arranged to stay; or
c. relative or close business colleague of the Insured person or of the person with whom the
Insured person is travelling or had arranged to stay;
2. the cancellation or delayed departure for 24 hours or more of the scheduled transport on
which the Insured person is booked to travel because of strike, industrial action, riot or civil
commotion, adverse weather conditions or mechanical breakdown;
3. the Insured person or person with whom he/she had arranged to travel or stay being
summoned for jury service, subpoenaed as a witness at a court of law, involuntarily made
redundant from permanent employment and entitled to payment under the current
redundancy payments law or compulsorily quarantined during the operative time of cover,
4. the Insured persons home within the United Kingdom or the Channel Islands or the home
within the United Kingdom or the Channel Islands of any person with whom the Insured
person is travelling being rendered uninhabitable by fire, storm or flood up to 14 days before
the departure date;
5. the presence of the Insured person or travelling companion being required by the police
following burglary at his/her home or normal place of business in the United Kingdom or the
Channel Islands provided that at the time of effecting this insurance or booking the journey
the Insured person was not aware of any reason why such journey may have to be cancelled
or curtailed.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Ws trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above reasons.
This means their claim isnt covered under the Cancellation or curtailment section of their
policy.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mr and Mrs Ws policy wouldnt have provided
cover if theyd travelled against FCDO advice. She thought this left Mr and Mrs W in an
unfair position. There may be some limited situations where if I didnt think an insurer had
clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to
claims for changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO advice, I might
think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms
and conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct
Ecclesiastical to do so here and Ill explore why.
In response to our investigators view, Ecclesiastical stated that it was Fs governmentsrestrictions, imposed on 15 March 2020, which had closed the ski resorts and prevented
non-citizens from travelling to F. So it considered that by 17 March 2020, it had become
impossible for Mr and Mrs W to take their planned trip to F irrespective of the change in
FCDO advice. And it argued that the restrictions imposed by Fs government were therefore
the proximate cause of cancellation, rather than the change in FCDO advice.
Ive looked closely at the evidence provided by both parties. In particular, Ive placed
significant weight on a letter M sent to one of Mr and Mrs Ws travelling party on Wednesday
18 March 2020. This says:
I would like to expand on our communication from Monday when we tried at short
notice to give you notice that (M) could not provide your holiday, and to explain why we
have asked that you make a claim on your travel insurance.
M had no notice of the impending crisis until the evening of Saturday 14 March 2020 when
the French government ordered the immediate closure of the ski resort and further
ordered that non-essential buildings including chalets be closed for public use. These
conditions, as we were warned, have been expanded and as such all but essential travel
became a criminal offence for fifteen days from Midday 17 March 2020.
We felt it was best to be honest with guests and inform them that we could no longer
operate in the resort. (My emphasis added).
Based on the dates, it seems to me that the Monday M has referred to above as the date of
its first communication with the travelling party regarding the resort closure was Monday 16
March 2020. And this evidence strongly suggests that the reason M couldnt provide Mr and
Mrs Ws holiday was because of the closure of the resort by Fs government on 14 March
2020. This then seems to me to be the main reason why Mr and Mrs W were unable to take
their trip as planned and were therefore left out of pocket for their cancelled chalet
accommodation costs. Both the restrictions by Fs government and the communication M
referred to on 18 March 2020 pre-dated the change in FCDO advice on 17 March 2020. So I
cant fairly conclude, in these circumstances, that Mr and Mrs W had to cancel their trip
because the FCDO advice changed.
Although FCDO advice did subsequently change a short time later, making it unlikely that Mr
and Mrs W could have travelled anyway (even if theyd wanted to), Im not persuaded that
this was the main reason for their claim. M had already informed their party, apparently on
16 March 2020, that it couldnt provide their holiday - prior to the advice changing. It seems
most likely then that the reason for their claim was the closure of the resort abroad and Ms
inability to provide their pre-booked accommodation. This simply isnt covered under the
terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws insurance contract. And I dont think I could fairly
direct Ecclesiastical to step away from the policy terms and conditions on the facts of this
case.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ws son developed symptoms of Covid-19 on 9 April 2020, only
three days before they wouldve been due to travel and after their 2019-20 policy had
renewed. However, its clear from all of the evidence that Mr and Mrs W knew they wouldnt
be able to travel as planned around three weeks before their sons illness. And I also dont
think this was the proximate cause of their claim. So Im not planning to tell Ecclesiastical to
pay their claim on this basis either.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ws position, as I appreciate theyve incurred
significant cancellation costs, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which Icould direct Ecclesiastical to pay this claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Mr and Mrs W were disappointed by my provisional findings. In brief, they felt that Id sided 
with the insurer and that Ecclesiastical had got away with providing sub-standard cover. 
They said there wasnt much they could add to my provisional decision, but that it was a 
shame that my opinion had been awarded in favour of the large corporate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, I still think it was fair for 
Ecclesiastical to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs W that Ive considered all both parties have said and 
provided independently and impartially of both parties, as Im required to do. Ive also taken 
into account the relevant law, regulators guidance and the contract terms (amongst other 
relevant considerations) when deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint.
However, as I set out in my provisional decision, the available evidence suggests that the 
main reason why Mr and Mrs W cancelled their trip was because of the closure of their 
resort and Ms inability to provide their pre-booked accommodation in F. This simply isnt 
covered by the cancellation section of the policy. And based on the evidence, I still dont 
think I could reasonably conclude that the main reason for the cancellation of the holiday 
was the change in FCDO advice. As such then, I still dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could direct Ecclesiastical to step away from the policy terms and pay 
this claim.
Overall, I find that Ecclesiastical treated Mr and Mrs W fairly when it turned down their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman