DRN-3822592
The complaint
Mr W has complained  on behalf of his late wifes (Mrs W) estate  that TenetLime Ltd 
(TLL) didnt accurately record the answers he gave on Mrs Ws behalf when they applied 
for new life cover.  And he felt pressured by TLLs representative during the application 
process.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W decided to apply for additional life insurance cover at the end of 2016.  So   
Mr W contacted TLL to get some quotes.
TLL took details from Mr W about his and Mrs Ws needs  including answers to a number of 
health and lifestyle questions.  Mr W confirmed that Mrs W had been suffering from acid 
reflux and had very recently consulted her GP.  And he explained the GP had placed her on 
medication for a trial period to see if that assisted.
TLL completed an application with an insurer Ill call A.  They completed As medical 
questionnaire for Mr W, and disclosed Mrs Ws condition and treatment.  A declined to 
provide her with cover due to the ongoing issues.  
TLL then completed a second application to an insurer Ill call B.  B phrased their application 
questions differently.  Mrs Ws application stated that she suffered from acid reflux.  And the 
question:
Are your symptoms controlled and have you been discharged from medical follow up?
was answered yes.  The application was accepted by B and the policy commenced.
A few months later, Mrs W was sadly diagnosed with cancer and passed away in 2021.     
Mr W submitted a claim to B on behalf of her estate.  B declined the claim on the basis that 
the answer to the question above was inaccurate.
Mr W complained to TLL.  He said hed provided them with accurate information about his 
wifes condition and TLL hadnt captured this properly.   And he said TLL had pressured him 
when completing the application and theyd not sent him or Mrs W a copy of the application, 
including the answers they included.
TLL didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.  They said the policy had been sold on a non-advised 
basis  which meant theyd provided Mr W with a range of choices for him to decide which 
was most suitable for him and Mrs W.  And their call recordings evidenced their adviser had 
made it clear it was up to Mr W how to answer Bs questions.
In relation to the complaint that theyd pressured Mr W into buying the policy, TLL said the 
reverse was true and theyd suggested postponing the application until the end of Mrs Ws 
medication trial.  But Mr W had wanted to go ahead before Mrs Ws birthday in early 2017, 
because he was concerned that might increase her premiums.  And TLL said theyd sent a 
copy of the completed application separately to both Mr and Mrs W.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with TLLs response and brought his complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded TLL didnt need to do anything more to resolve it.  
He was satisfied the policy was sold on a non-advised basis, and that Mr W had provided 
information on Mrs Ws behalf.  
And he concluded that, although it was a two part question, if the answer to either part was 
no, the question should have been answered that way.  In relation to the complaint that 
TLL hadnt provided a copy of the application, the investigator said it was Bs responsibility to 
do this  and he was satisfied theyd done so.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding the complaint Mr Ws made on behalf of Mrs Ws estate.  
Ill explain why.
A key factor in this complaint is that the policy was sold on a non-advised basis.  That means 
 as TLL set out in their response  it was Mrs Ws responsibility (which she delegated to   
Mr W) to decide how to answer the questions in Bs application.  Im satisfied from the call 
recordings Ive listened to TLL explained this to Mr W.
Ive listened to the call between Mr W and TLL during which they completed Mrs Ws 
application.  Ive heard that Mr W initially completed the application on her behalf for a policy 
with A, which was declined because of the information provided about her acid reflux.  
As TLL said in their final response, their representative suggested to Mr W they delay 
applying for Mrs Ws policy until the outcome of her medication trial was known.  Mr W was 
concerned that the premium would increase if the application couldnt be made before his 
wifes birthday.  So the representative suggested he might want to apply to B and see if their 
response was more favourable.
From what Ive listened to, Im satisfied the representative provided an alternative to Mr W to 
address his concern about delaying.  Nothing Ive heard persuades me the representative 
was aggressive or pushy, or that Mr W was persuaded to do something he didnt want to.  
And the same call shows that there was a discussion about how to answer the question Ive 
set out above.  Its clear from the relevant section that it was Mr Ws choice to answer the 
question yes on the basis he thought Mrs Ws symptoms were controlled.  
I appreciate B didnt agree with that answer when they considered the issue after Mrs W had 
passed away.  But Im satisfied that wasnt TLLs responsibility.  So I dont think they need to 
do any more here.
Finally, Ive thought about the complaint that TLL didnt send copy documentation to Mr or 
Mrs W after the application was complete.  
As our investigator has said, its actually Bs responsibility to provide this information to their 
customers.  But I understand why  having dealt with TLL  Mr and Mrs W may have 
expected to receive documentation from them.  And I can see that TLLs file records they did 
send confirmation to Mr W by email  and later direct to Mrs W at her request.I appreciated Mr W says he didnt receive anything.  But even if thats the case, Im not 
satisfied it would have made any difference.  The correspondence sent confirmed to Mrs W 
that the policy had been accepted, confirmed when and how premiums would be collected 
and provided a statement of demands and needs.
The statement included the requirement to answer all questions honestly and disclose all 
medical facts.  But Mr Ws complaint is that Mrs Ws estates claim was declined because 
the question wasnt clear  not that he didnt know how he should answer it.  
On that basis, Im not persuaded that receiving the documentation would have led to Mr or 
Mrs W doing anything differently  so I dont think TLL need to do any more to resolve the 
complaint Mr Ws made on behalf of Mrs Ws estate. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding the complaint Mr Ws made on behalf of 
Mrs Ws estate about TenetLime Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
W to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman