DRN-3025652
The complaint
Mr A complains about a pension switch from one Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to 
another. He says he was advised by The London Trading Company (UK) Limited trading as 
SG Capital Management to move his pension and this advice was unsuitable.
What happened
In 2017 Mr A was in touch with an unregulated financial business which discussed with him 
moving his SIPP. He was referred to London Trading and completed a fact-find with it in 
October 2017. The fact-find noted that Mr A was a balanced investor and his main financial 
objective was to grow his funds.
London Trading set up an investment wrapper for Mr A and selected and constructed an
investment portfolio that it would manage on his behalf. Mr A was sent an illustration directly 
from the SIPP provider about the new SIPP. He completed an application form for the switch 
and London Trading returned the completed forms to the SIPP provider on his behalf.
The transfer was completed in November 2017 and London Trading then sent a completed 
application form for an investment wrapper account for trading on the SIPP providers 
platform. Once this was set up London Trading asked for £240,000 of Mr As fund to be 
placed in this account for investments. 
Mr A was invested through this account until June 2019 when his account was terminated 
and London Trading was removed from his account.
Mr A has complained that he was advised by London Trading to transfer his SIPP; this 
advice wasnt suitable; and he suffered a significant financial loss as a result.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said: 
London Trading is not an advice firm and was working for Mr A as a discretionary 
investment manager; its role was limited to making decisions about the investments 
being made.
There was limited information available but from the information hed seen there 
wasnt enough to show London Trading had advised Mr A to switch his pension; its 
role was limited to administration purposes, it wasnt responsible for any advice given 
to him, and he didnt think it had provided advice to him.
London Trading had completed a fact-find document for Mr A, the recording of his 
level of risk was reasonable and the investments made in the SIPP were in line with 
this level of risk.
Mr A had also raised concerns about London Tradings money laundering process 
but issues around its processes would be for the regulator rather than this service.
Mr A didnt agree. He has been supported in bringing this complaint by a representative and 
his representative made a number of comments on his behalf, including:
The fact-find document notes that Mr A would normally take advice before making 
investment decisions. Hes not an experienced investor. So its not clear how a view 
was reached that he had a balanced attitude to risk and it doesnt make sense that 
he would transfer a large sum of money without having any advice.
He was contacted by an unregulated introducer. They referred him to London 
Trading who arranged the transfer of his SIPP. If London Trading was only involved 
as an investment manager its not clear why it became involved before the transfer 
was arranged; they would usually only be involved once the investments were to be 
made.
Mr A was never given a suitability report. 
Hes adamant that without the involvement of London Trading the transfer wouldnt 
have happened.
The fact London Trading didnt carry out the correct money laundering process 
shows it wasnt following correct procedures and this should be investigated.
The investigator considered these points but didnt change his view that, based on the 
limited information available, he didnt think London Trading had made a recommendation to 
Mr A about moving his pension. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for this matter is the agreement between London Trading and Mr A, as this 
sets out the service it would provide for him. This says that as the investment manager its 
role would relate to making decisions to invest the assets comprising the portfolio with a 
view to achieving the investment objectives of the client. The agreement gives more 
information about the service and managers role, and these all relate to investments. And 
the agreement specifically says the investment service will not constitute investment advice.
On that basis London Tradings role was limited to making investment decisions. However, 
Mr As representative says he only transferred to the new SIPP because of London Tradings 
involvement and says the fact it was involved before the transfer took place shows its role 
wasnt limited to dealing with the investments. So Ive considered how the transfer came 
about and whether London Trading gave him advice on this.
Mr As representative has referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles 
and Rules, including the duty to treat customers fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally. Ive taken these into account when considering his complaint. I have also 
noted that London Trading is regulated by the FCA to carry out certain investment activities 
but isnt authorised to advise on pension transfers. 
As our investigator noted, we have limited information. The investigator wasnt able to speak 
to Mr A directly to ask him about what happened. From the information Ive seen, it appears 
Mr A was contacted by an unregulated financial business. Its unclear what their involvement 
was or what review of his pension was carried out, but I understand he discussed moving his 
pension. He was put in touch with London Trading, who completed the application forms for 
him. But the fact it assisted with the paperwork for the transfer doesnt necessarily mean it 
advised him to transfer. Theres no correspondence relating to this and no other documents, 
for example a suitability report, which Id expect to see where advice is being given. And of 
course London Trading isnt authorised to give advice.
Although Mr As representative says hes adamant the transfer wouldnt have happened 
without London Tradings involvement, thats not the same as saying it advised him to 
transfer; the fact it assisted him with the paperwork no doubt led to the transfer happening 
but assisting with administration isnt the same as giving advice. And his representative hasnt been able to provide any evidence showing that any advice was given. He says Mr A 
recalls that he was told where his money would be invested and then given access to the 
platform so he could see what SG Capital were doing. and He was simply told that this is 
where his money would be invested. So even on his own testimony theres no evidence of 
advice actually being given, simply that London Trading helped him lodge the forms and told 
him where his money would be invested. 
The investigator obtained information from the previous pension scheme from around the
time of the switch. This showed the only advice firm noted was a different firm, which Mr A 
had dealt with as part of a previous transfer. That firm was noted as being the advice firm 
linked to his account from May 2017 until November 2018 which is around the time Mr A 
moved his pension again. Theres no evidence from that provider of any other advice firm.
The application forms and transaction history for the SIPP that Mr A transferred to confirm 
that London Trading sent the application forms on Mr As behalf and was noted on the forms 
as the adviser. Mr As representative says this shows it was involved in advising Mr A to 
transfer. But the SIPP transaction history doesnt list any advice fees being paid to London 
Trading. And there are no advice documents such as a suitability report or recommendation 
letter to Mr A.
Looking at all of the evidence, theres not enough to persuade me London Trading advised 
Mr A to transfer; only that it submitted the paperwork for him and arranged the investments. 
So I dont think Mr A was given poor advice (or indeed any advice) by London Trading .
With regard to the investment decisions, Mr A indicated he wanted to take some degree of 
risk. The fact-find included the levels of risk descriptors as balanced or medium risk. The 
descriptors also included information about what Mr A could expect from investments at this 
level, and hed agreed to this.
Mr A was aged 54 at the time and was only invested for about a year and half through
London Trading. But the SIPP transaction statements show he continued to invest through 
an alternative investment manager after that time. I think this shows he was interested in 
investing for the longer term. So he was likely to wait for the investment return of a medium 
risk level, which could quite often rise and fall before growth was achieved. 
Taking all of this into account, I think the recording of his attitude to risk was reasonable. It 
was in line with what hed requested, and theres nothing to suggest Mr A was unhappy with 
this at the time. The information Ive seen about the balanced portfolio shows a range of 
investments including bonds, equities and property. This indicates the make-up of the 
portfolio was appropriate and matched the risk he was willing to take. 
In any event, the complaint Mr A made was about being advised to transfer his SIPP in the 
first place, rather than the specific balance of investments in the new SIPP. And although 
Mr A said in his complaint that he had suffered a significant financial loss as a result of being 
advised to transfer, he hasnt provided any evidence of a loss. So even if I considered he 
had been wrongly advised by London Trading to transfer, theres no evidence that this 
caused him any loss.
Finally, with regard to London Tradings process for dealing with money laundering, I agree 
with our investigator that any concerns about this would be a matter for the regulator. Its not 
for me to say what processes London Trading should have in place. And in any event, 
theres no evidence that this led to any poor advice or any loss being caused. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman