DRN-3944603
The complaint
Miss P has complained about Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd. She isnt happy that it will 
not renew her lifetime pet insurance policy.  
For ease of reading any reference to Building Block includes the actions of its agents which 
it is responsible for.
What happened
Miss P made a claim under her lifetime pet insurance policy (a policy that will cover 
conditions the pet develops for the rest of its life as long as the policy continues and is 
renewed) in relation to an ongoing skin condition. While considering this claim Building Block 
noticed Miss Ps dog was overweight and so it told Miss P it would allow her policy to run but 
that it wouldnt renew the policy when it was due for renewal in April 2023. 
Miss P didnt think this was fair and just thought Building Block was trying to get out of 
paying for her pets condition that was likely to last all her pets life. Building Block looked 
into things for her but maintained it had acted fairly and in line with its policy which says, 
Your pet must not be overweight based on its breed type and age at the Policy Start Date. It 
highlighted that the veterinary nurse said Miss Ps pet needed to lose weight and 
recommended a daily intake of food to assist. As Miss P remained unhappy about this she 
complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Ps complaint and upheld it. He said there was no 
suggestion Miss P misrepresented the pets weight when she first took out the policy and 
outlined that a pets weight can often fluctuate during the course of a lifetime policy. So he 
asked Building Block to continue to allow cover.
Building Block didnt agree. It maintained it had acted fairly by not cancelling the policy when 
it became aware that Miss Ps pet was overweight but not allowing renewal as its eligibility 
criteria hasnt been met. So the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think that the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Building Block is looking not to renew Miss Ps lifetime pet insurance policy when it comes 
up for renewal later this year. This is because it says her policy makes it clear under Am I 
eligible for cover? that Your pet must not be overweight based on its breed type and age at 
the Policy Start. However, Building Block hasnt raised any misrepresentation arguments 
and the policy hasnt yet reached renewal stage, so Im surprised it has moved to not look to 
renew her policy so early. 
Turning to the suggestion that Miss Ps pet is overweight I dont think it has sufficient 
evidence to say her dog is overweight or that it hasnt lost weight since the vet gave advice 
(and so could meet its eligibility criteria at the time of renewal). Building Block has suggested 
a guide weight for Miss Ps particular breed, but this is open to interpretation and I would 
expect a more detailed assessment and investigation to support this position.
However, I can see the treating veterinary nurse has suggested in September 2022 that 
Miss Ps pet needs to 'lose weight Discussed with nurse about recommended amount of 
food'. But Miss Ps pet was having a few health problems and dietary changes around that 
time, so it is likely this has had an impact on Miss Ps pet at that time. And the vet had seen 
Miss Ps pet regularly in the lead up to that and there was no mention of any need to lose 
weight before this. Furthermore, it is very likely the vets recommendations about food 
amounts have had an affect here and the pet has lost weight but Building Block hasnt 
requested any update about this. 
Finally, as this is a lifetime policy it looks to cover ongoing conditions and consumers usually 
pay a significant uplift in the cost of the policy year on year because of this. And a pets 
weight and condition is likely to fluctuate throughout its lifetime so Im not sure the exclusion 
is fair or reasonable. But either way, if Building Block wanted to step outside of this for any 
reason I would expect it to make it abundantly clear in its policy documentation to consumers 
and I dont think it has. I say this as the document that would look to highlight this to Miss P 
(the Insurance Product Information Document) only says under What is not insured? that If 
in the opinion of a vet Your pet is overweight and this results in Your pet needing Treatment 
which clearly isnt the case here. 
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do is for Building Block to allow 
renewal if Miss P wishes to renew this year. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Building Block 
Insurance PCC Ltd to offer renewal in April 2023 as it ordinarily would. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman