DRN-4204669
The complaint
Mr N complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc switched his account from his existing third-party 
bank without his permission. 
What happened
Mr N applied for a student account with HSBC in 2021 and during that application, asked for 
his account to be switched from his existing account with a third-party bank, who Ill call S. 
At that time, Mr Ns application was declined as his credit score was not high enough to 
obtain the student account. 
Mr N made another application for an HSBC student account in January 2022, but this time 
did not opt to switch from his account with S. Mr Ns application was again rejected by HSBC 
due to his credit score not being high enough for the student account. However, they did ask 
Mr N in their reply if he would be interested in opening a basic account instead. And he 
accepted this.
HSBC sent Mr N a letter confirming the opening of his new account and within this it 
mentioned that the account would be switched over from his existing account with S. 
However, Mr N did not realise this until a few days before the switching date and when he 
contacted HSBC about it, they confirmed it was too late as the switch date was too close and 
they could not stop the process.
Mr N raised a complaint as he had not requested for the switch to be made and his account 
with S was his longest running account, with an overdraft facility of £1,000 on it. He felt its 
closure would negatively affect his credit score and he asked for the switch to be reversed. 
HSBC issued a final response letter in which they confirmed the switch could not be stopped 
as Mr N had made the request too late.
Mr N referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. They agreed 
that HSBC had made an error when it switched the account from S and tried to mediate a 
reversal of the switch. However, HSBC stated this was not possible. As a result, the 
Investigator recommended compensation totaling £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
the matter had caused Mr N. And they said that if Mr N could show his credit file had been 
negatively affected by the matter, HSBC should write to the credit referencing agencies to 
rectify this. However, it has since been explained to Mr N that HSBC is unable to amend his 
credit file in relation to the closed account with S.
Mr N disagreed with the recommendation. He felt compensation in the region of £1,000 was 
more reasonable and he wanted a new account with S to be opened with no searches 
appearing on his credit file, and for his credit file to be amended so his score was not 
affected by this incident.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the £500 compensation recommended is fair and is in line with what I 
would have recommended in the circumstances. Ill explain why in more detail. 
HSBC says that it does not agree with the outcome reached by the Investigator, but it has 
agreed to the recommendation as a gesture of goodwill, to bring the matter to a close. 
In summary, I do agree that HSBC made an error in the circumstances when they switched 
Mr Ns account from his third-party account. While they did make Mr N aware that the 
account was switching via letter and text, Mr N was not expecting the account to be switched 
as he had not requested it. So I can understand why he would not pay much attention to the 
account opening communications. I can see when he did realise, it was already too late as it 
was too close to the switching date. As a result, I do agree that HSBC needs to make steps 
to remedy the complaint.
My role is to try and put Mr N back, as near as possible, to the position he wouldve been in, 
had it not been for any shortcomings on HSBCs part. Which in this case would be the       
re-opening of his account with S. However, HSBC has made it clear that it is not physically 
possible to reverse the switch, so they are unable to facilitate the re-opening of the account 
with S. Mr N has asked for the account with S to be re-opened with no hard or soft searches 
appearing on his credit file. However, that is not possible and Mr N will need to re-apply for 
the account via the usual process, but this will be subject to credit checks.
Mr N has also asked for HSBC to write to the credit referencing agencies and amend his 
credit file so that this issue does not negatively affect him. He has pointed out that the 
account he held with S was his longest standing account, so he feels its closure has 
negatively affected his credit score. However, the only way Mr Ns credit file could be 
amended is if the account with S was reinstated, which HSBC has explained it is unable to 
do. Because of this, it is not possible to amend Mr Ns credit file to the way it was before the 
account with S was closed. Though Mr N is able to add a note to his credit file explaining 
what has happened. 
With the above in mind, the only action HSBC is able to take is to pay Mr N compensation in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience the issue has caused him. Im aware that Mr N 
feels the £500 recommended so far is not enough. Compensation is subjective and what 
might feel like enough to one person may not feel sufficient to another. Considering the 
impact the issue has had on Mr N, I do feel the £500 recommended is in line with what I 
would have suggested in the circumstances. And I feel this fairly compensates Mr N for the 
trouble and upset the situation has caused him. 
 
My final decision
I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr N £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the issue has caused him, 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman