DRN-3239230
The complaint
Mr Os complaint is about the refusal of a claim under his pet policy with Building Block
Insurance PCC Ltd.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter earlier this month, most of which is copied 
below: 
In May 2021, Mr Os cat lost the use of her back legs. Mr O took her to the vet who
investigated possible neurological and cardiological causes but no cause was found for the
lameness. Mr O made a claim for the cost of the treatment and tests.
Building Block refused the claim on the basis that the cat was known to have had a heart
murmur before this policy started and the policy excludes cover for any pre-existing
conditions. It says that as some cardiological tests were done, this means the claim is
excluded from cover.
Mr O is very unhappy about this and says that the vet concluded there were no concerns
about the cats heart at the time and while cardiological issues can cause sudden lameness,
this was not found to be the cause in this instance. After Mr O complained, Building Block
agreed to cover the cost of the neurological tests but it still would not cover the cost of the
cardiological tests.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend the complaint be
upheld, as he thought Building Block was entitled to refuse the cost of the cardiological tests,
as they related to investigation of the pre-existing heart murmur. The investigator said he
didnt think it was relevant that the heart murmur was not found to be the cause of the
lameness.
Mr O does not accept the investigators assessment. Mr O has made a number of points in
support of his complaint, in response to the investigator and in his initial complaint, which I
have summarised below:
The referral to the vet was for sudden loss of limb control. The murmur needed to be
explored to rule it out as a cause of the problem (which it was).The cat was not
treated for a heart murmur, she was treated for loss of use of her legs and there is no
proven connection between the two.
No neurological or cardiological cause was found. The claim was not therefore for a
pre-existing condition but for a new and undiagnosed condition.
Its unfair not to cover exploratory work when ultimately the symptoms had no
connection to the heart murmur.
The vet would probably have investigated the heart anyway, as the neurological tests
didnt show any cause, even if they hadnt known about the heart murmur.
He has also referred to two decisions made by my ombudsmen colleagues which he says
concluded that where a pre-existing condition is not found to be the cause of new symptoms
(and therefore a new claim) it is unfair to refuse cover. The cardiological test needed to be
done but ultimately, the cats heart condition was not the cause of the lameness and so his
claim should be met, in line with these decisions.
As the investigator was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Os policy provides cover for treatment costs but subject to various terms and conditions,
including an exclusion for claims relating to any pre-existing conditions:
What is not insured?
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition or that
showed signs of existence before Your Policy Start Date.
It is not in dispute that Mr Os cat had been diagnosed with a heart murmur before the start
date of this policy and that she therefore has a pre-existing heart condition. But for Building
Blocks to be able to rely on the above exclusion, it has to establish that the costs being
claimed for relate to the pre-existing heart condition. I do not think it has done so and I will
explain why.
The vets notes record that they initially suspected the cat had suffered a stroke but this (and
any other neurological cause) was ruled out following appropriate neurological tests. The vet
then suggested carrying out some cardiological tests, including a scan of the cats heart, as
some heart conditions can cause sudden lameness.
The vet confirmed by letter dated 12 May 2021 the following:
Reason for hospitalisation: Sudden onset hind limb weakness prompting referral to the
neurology team.
Tests performed  : A focused ultrasound of the heart was performed  the preliminary
assessment allowed me to rule out heart disease as a contender in her recent symptoms.
As we mentioned, heart disease is one of the most common causes (as much as
neurological causes in older cats) and so it was important to assess this as well as
performing her neurological assessment today. The scan was reassuring though and whilst
there is some mild thickening of the heart muscle, this is not causing any issues or problems
and is of no current worry or concern 
Diagnosis: Cause of recent signs undetermined, mild heart disease, but of no major
concern at this time.
From what the vet has said, it seems that cardiological tests would have been the next
logical step in diagnosing a cause for the lameness, having ruled out any neurological
causes. There is certainly not enough evidence to establish that the cardiological test was
only done because the vet knew the cat had a heart murmur.
Given this, I think it is relevant that there was no link between a cardiological issue and the
lameness. The pre-existing heart murmur was discounted as irrelevant to the onset of the
acute lameness. Investigations were carried out to investigate the onset of new symptoms
and while this included investigations into a possible heart issue that would cause the
lameness, this was not a claim that relates to a pre-existing condition. The claim is not for
anything related to a heart issue, it is for a so far, undiagnosed condition or issue whichcaused acute lameness.
It is my opinion that the claim should be met in full. I understand the vet had not demanded
payment at the time the complaint was brought to us. However, if Mr O has since made
payment then interest should be added to the amount due to be paid, at our usual rate. I also
consider that some additional compensation should be paid to reflect the trouble caused to
Mr O by the wrongful refusal of this claim. I consider that £100 would be appropriate.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd to do the
following:
1. meet the claim, subject to the remaining terms of the policy (including any relevant,
excess, claim cap, co-payment). If Mr O has already paid the vet fees, then interest
should be added at 8% simple per annum from the date Mr O paid the fees, to the
date of reimbursement.
2. Pay Mr O the sum of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
by the incorrect refusal of his claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Mr O has responded and confirmed he accepts my provisional decision. He confirmed he 
paid the final part of the vet bill on 21 August 2021, so Building Block should pay him 
directly. 
Building Blocks has also responded and confirmed it has nothing to add. It says the 
cardiology treatment amounted to £270.00, there is a 15% co-payment to be deducted, 
which means £229.50 is payable for this part of the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information, I remain of the opinion that it is not fair 
or reasonable for Building Blocks to refuse to pay for the cardiology tests carried out by the 
vet. It should pay the claim in full, subject to the remaining policy terms. Building Blocks has 
said this was £270 and having deducted the co-payment, means a payment to Mr O of 
£229.50. This appears to be in line with the fees set out in the file but if Mr O disagrees with 
this figure he should let Building Blocks know.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd to do thefollowing:
1. meet the claim for the cardiological tests, subject to the remaining terms of the policy 
(including any relevant excess, claim cap, co-payment), together with interest at 8% simple 
per annum from the date Mr O paid the fees, to the date of reimbursement, upon proof of 
payment.
2. Pay Mr O the sum of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
by the incorrect refusal of his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman