DRN-4438905
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with Startline 
Motor Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2022, Miss P was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Startline. The agreement was for £6,840 over 42 months; with 41 monthly payments of 
£221.22 and a final payment of £231.22. At the time of supply, the car was almost eight and 
a half years old and had done 86,031 miles (according to the MOT record for 6 September 
2022).
Miss P said she started to have trouble with the car shortly after it was supplied to her, and 
this was traced to issues with the cooling system. The supplying dealership attempted a 
repair in April 2023, but this didnt fix the issue. And the car has been undrivable since. She 
complained to Startline who arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car.
Following an inspection that took place on 24 May 2023, when the car had done 90,075 
miles, the independent engineer said they couldnt identify any coolant leaks, nor was there 
any evidence of the exhaust smoking or the engine overheating. However, the engineer 
said, the fact that [a breakdown company] put a coolant system sealant in the system could 
have, potentially, masked any cooling system leaks. So, the engineer recommended the car 
be subject to an overnight pressure test and hopefully this will expose any potential leaks.
The pressure test took place on 20 June 2023, and this identified a coolant leak. It also said 
the car needed repairs to the coolant system at the cost of £549.42 (which included £10 plus 
VAT (£12) for replacement anti-freeze). Startline said the work could be carried out, but it 
would need to be done by the supplying dealership, as they would be looking to exercise 
their right to repair.
Miss P wasnt happy with this, as she had no confidence in the supplying dealership carrying 
out the repair after their failed attempt to repair the car in April 2023. So, she brought her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator was satisfied there was a fault with the car, and that this made the car of an 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. As the supplying dealership had attempted, and 
failed, to repair the car in April 2023, the investigator said the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA) now gave Miss P the right to reject the car.
However, as Miss P didnt want to reject the car, the investigator thought it reasonable that it 
was repaired. Given the previous failed repair, and that Miss P has lost confidence in the 
supplying dealership, the investigator said Startline should cover the cost of the car being 
repaired at the garage who provided the quote, less the cost of the antifreeze as this was a 
service item. The investigator also said that, as the car had been off the road since 12 April 
2023, and as Miss P hadnt been supplied with a courtesy car, Startline should refund any 
payments shed made since this date, refund her the costs of any inspection reports shed 
paid for, and pay her £200 for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused.
Miss P had asked for Startline to cover her car insurance and road tax payments while the 
car was off the road, but the investigator didnt think they needed to as Miss P was legally 
required to tax and insure the car. Miss P also said that she was a named driver on her 
daughters car and, having to use this while the car supplied by Startline was off the road, 
meant the milage allowed by the insurance had been exceeded, and this had cost an 
additional £270. However, the investigator didnt think this should be refunded as, being a 
named driver, it was always Miss Ps intention to use that car.
Startline queried whether the car had been repaired yet and, once they were advised it 
hadnt, they failed to respond to the investigators view. Miss P accepted the investigators 
view but thought Startline should cover the additional insurance premium her daughter had 
to pay. And she confirmed she was only a named driver on her daughters insurance so as 
to reduce the insurance premiums, and not because she ever intended to drive the car.
Given this, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Where evidence has been incomplete 
or contradictory, Ive reached my view on the balance of probabilities  what I think is most 
likely to have happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss P was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Startline are responsible. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicles 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Startline can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Miss P to show it was present when the 
car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss P took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Startline to put this right.
In this instance, its not disputed there was a problem with the cooling system, nor is it 
disputed that Miss P had problems with this from shortly after being supplied with the car.The car has been inspected by an independent engineer, and the additional tests this 
engineer requested were carried out. The key parts of these reports have been referred to 
above and, based on these, Im also satisfied there was a fault with the cooling system.
The independent engineers report of 24 May 2023 also concluded that any necessary 
repair costs, should be borne by the sales agent, on the grounds of durability as the vehicle 
has covered less than 4,000 miles since the date of sale. The engineer has confirmed their 
duty is to the courts, not to the person who instructed and/or paid for the report. As such, Im 
satisfied this report is reasonable to rely upon. And, based on these comments, Im also 
satisfied the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality at the point of supply, given its lack of 
reasonable durability. So, Startline should do something to put things right.
Putting things right
Section 24(5) of the CRA says a consumer who has  the right to reject may only exercise 
[this] and may only do so in one of these situations  (a) after one repair or replacement, the 
goods do not confirm to contract. This is known as the single chance of repair. And this 
applies to all issues with the goods, and to all repairs i.e., its not a single chance of repair for 
the dealership AND a single chance of repair for Startline  the first attempted repair is the 
single chance at repair. Whats more, if a different fault arises after a previous repair, even if 
those faults arent related, the single chance of repair has already happened  its not a 
single chance of repair per fault.
The CRA is clear that, if the single chance at repair fails, as was the case here, then Miss P 
has the right of rejection. However, this doesnt mean that Miss P is required to reject the 
car, and she can agree an alternative remedy i.e., further repairs to the car.
The single chance of repair has already been taken by the dealership in April 2023, and, as 
can be seen from the independent reports referred to above, this failed. While Miss P has 
agreed for the car to be repaired, shes asked this is not done by the dealership, as shes 
lost confidence in them. I dont think this is unreasonable. However, I do think Startline are 
being unreasonable in the circumstances by insisting the dealership has the right to repair  
theyve already had this option and failed to repair the car. So, I wont be directing that the 
car needs to go back to the dealership for a second chance at repair.
Miss P has said she stopped using the car in April 2023, after the dealerships repair attempt 
failed. Given the car has a cooling system issue, and overheating could result in both an 
inconvenient breakdown and potentially severe damage to the engine, I dont think its 
unreasonable she did this.
So, the car has been off the road and undrivable since 12 April 2023, during which time Miss 
P hasnt been supplied with a courtesy car. As such, shes been paying for goods she wasnt 
able to use. As, for the reasons already stated, Im satisfied the car was off the road due to it 
being of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied, and as Startline failed to keep Miss 
P mobile; Im satisfied they should refund the payments she made since April 2023.
Miss P has asked for her daughters increased insurance premiums to be refunded, as these 
were incurred as a direct result of the increased mileage caused by her driving the car. I 
consider these to be alternate transport costs  something Miss P (indirectly) incurred as a 
result of the car supplied by Startline being off the road. The refund of the payments she 
made to Startline is designed to offset any alternate transport costs, which in this case would 
include the £270 additional insurance premium. 
So, if I were to direct Startline to refund the £270, on top of the payment refund, Miss P 
would be in a double recovery situation  shed be receiving a payment refund to cover her alternate transport costs AND be receiving a refund of these costs. Which I dont consider to 
be fair. As such, I wont be directing Startline to refund the insurance costs.
The evidence shows that three diagnostic reports were completed in February and April 
2023. However, its not clear if Miss P was required to pay for these. As these reports were 
only obtained because the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when supplied, if Miss P had to 
pay for these, I think its only fair that Startline reimburse these costs.
Finally, its clear that Miss P has been inconvenienced by what has happened, and by the 
car breaking down on multiple occasions. So, I think Startline should compensate her for 
this. The investigator had recommended Startline pay her £200, which is in line with what I 
wouldve directed had no recommendation been made. So, I see no compelling reason not 
to adopt this as part of my final decision.
Therefore, Startline should:
pay Miss P £537.42 (the cost of the repairs to the car, less the cost of the antifreeze), 
to allow her to arrange for the car to be repaired;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Miss Ps credit file;
refund any payments Miss P paid from 12 April 2023 to the date the repair costs are 
paid;
upon receipt of proof that Miss P paid for any diagnostic reports in February and April 
2023, reimburse these payments to her;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refund/reimbursements, calculated from the 
date Miss P made the payments to the date of the refund; and
pay Miss P an additional £200 to compensate her for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Startline to take off tax from this interest. Startline must 
give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Miss Ps complaint about Startline Motor Finance 
Limited. And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman