DRN-3313942
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K and their adult son Mr K2 complain about Union Reiseversicherung AGs 
(URV) settlement of their travel insurance claim. Mr and Mrs K have power of attorney for 
Mr K2, due to his medical condition, so as they act for him in this matter Ill just refer to Mr 
and Mrs K as appropriate. They are represented by their insurance broker and my 
references to Mr and Mrs K include their representative. My references to URV include its 
agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K and Mr K2 are insured under an annual multi trip travel insurance policy, the 
insurer is URV. Mr and Mrs K booked and paid for a holiday in Europe for themselves and 
Mr K2.
Unfortunately they had to cancel the holiday as Mrs K had sudden serious ill health and was 
medically advised not to travel. They were able to cancel the travel without incurring cost. 
They claimed for the cost of the accommodation, £9,000, which wasnt refundable and £30 
for the medical certificate fee.
URV accepted the claim but only partially settled the claim. As the booked accommodation 
was large (six bedrooms) URV asked for the names of people Mr and Mrs K had invited to 
stay with them and Mr and Mrs K gave the names of five other people who were family or 
friends. URV said the policy only covered Mr and Mrs K and Mr K2s proportion of trip costs, 
not the cost Mr and Mrs K paid on behalf of others. URV paid a settlement figure of £3,225, 
which is 3/8ths of the accommodation cost (£3,375) less the £50 excess each for Mr and 
Mrs K and Mr K2.
Mr and Mrs K complained to us. In summary they said:
Theyd paid the whole cost of the accommodation and didnt asked for, or receive, 
any contribution towards the cost from the other five people theyd invited.
Their son, Mr K2, had complex medical needs (which they explained) and if the other 
people did come to stay they helped with respite care. Theyd had the same 
arrangement in the same accommodation for several years and if anyone did visit at 
the accommodation historically they spent various amounts of times, not the whole 
holiday.
Even if the people they had invited didnt come they still would have gone to the 
same accommodation as it was a safe environment for their son where he felt secure 
and had suitable facilitates. It was important that their son had space as he makes a 
lot of noise so they don't want to be close to neighbours and he knew the 
accommodation which meant he coped better.
The other five people had no financial interest in the cost of the accommodation and 
wouldnt have been in a position to make a claim under any insurance policy they 
may have had so there was no possibly of a double claim if URV was concerned 
about that.
Theyd selected the highest possible coverage under the policy, with each insured 
person covered up to £5,000 in the event of cancellation, so they would be covered 
for the full amount if they had to cancel.
Mr and Mrs K also provided signed statements from the five other people who had been 
invited which said they hadnt financially contributed to the cost of the accommodation.
Our investigator said URV fairly declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. They added that they with 
their son had been to this accommodation about twelve separate times and on three of those 
times theyd been on their own the whole time. The accommodation suited their sons 
medical needs and URV knew about those medical needs as theyd declared the condition 
when they bought the policy.
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
Industry rules say insurers are required to deal with claims fairly and promptly. And they
mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
The policy terms
On page 8 of 19 the policy says:
Section A1 cancellation
For each insured-person this insurance will pay:
under your selected cover option, as specified in your Policy Schedule, up to:

£5,000 Super Duper cover
for your proportion of:
i) transport charges,
ii) loss of accommodation
booked before you go on your trip, that you have paid or agreed to pay and that you 
cannot recover from any other source following your necessary cancellation after you 
bought this insurance and limited to the cancellation charges at the time of diagnosis 
of the condition causing the cancellation of your trip through your inability to 
commence travel due to:
(i) the death, injury or illness of:
 you or a travelling companion.
On page 4 of 19 the policy says:
Policy information
Cover is specified for each passenger who is shown as having paid the insurance 
premiums and whose name is shown on the Policy Schedule.This insurance wording is a copy of the master policies and is subject to the terms, 
conditions and exclusions of the master policies.
In the event that you have paid for a trip on behalf of other individuals not insured on 
this policy please be advised that your policy only provides cover for your proportion 
of trip costs, as opposed to the amount you have paid on behalf of others.
Did URV fairly settle the claim?
Im intending to uphold the complaint as I dont think URV fairly settled the claim.
In these particular circumstances I dont think Mr K and Mrs K paid for the accommodation 
on behalf of the other five people theyd invited to stay with them. Im satisfied from what 
theyve said that due to Mr K2s needs due to his medical condition they would have booked 
this same accommodation whether or not the other people had visited them. The policy is 
marketed as specialist travel insurance for people with medical conditions and disabilities 
and Mr and Mrs K have detailed how the accommodation meets their sons specific needs 
due to his condition, which was declared and is covered by the policy.
The correspondence between the accommodation provider and Mr and Mrs K shows theyve 
been to the same accommodation many times before. Ive no reason to doubt that on some 
of those occasions it was just the three of them staying. Ive also found what theyve said 
about the circumstances and their sons condition to be credible and persuasive.
So I think Mr and Mrs K and Mr K2s proportion of the accommodation cost is the whole cost 
of the accommodation in the circumstances of this case. They hadnt made a payment on 
behalf of other people as they werent expecting the money to be returned to them. They 
booked accommodation for themselves, but gave others the option to join them if they 
wanted to. Therefore I dont think the policy term URV relied on to pay the partial settlement 
applies in these circumstances. The whole cost of the accommodation, £9,000, is covered 
by the cancellation section of the policy.
Even if I thought that on a strict interpretation of the policy terms the policy term did apply, 
I wouldnt think it fair and reasonable for URV to apply the term to limit the claim settlement. 
As Ive outlined above Mr and Mrs K booked the accommodation for themselves and had 
previously been happy to go on holiday as a party of three. So I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to conclude that they were paying on behalf of other family and friends who may 
(or may not) join them. The arrangement appears to have been very flexible and I can see 
that Mr and Mrs K paid the whole amount to the accommodation provider. Their family 
members and friends have also confirmed the arrangements, which had been in place for 
many years. So I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Mr and Mrs K and Mr K2s 
proportion of the costs is the full cost of the accommodation.
I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for URV to pay the whole of the accommodation 
cost. URV should pay the balance of the cost taking into account the settlement its already 
paid, plus interest as Ive detailed below. Its already deducted the £50 excess per person 
from the settlement.
Also, I note the policy says that in the event of a claim under the cancellation section URV 
will pay a maximum of £80 to your doctor for medical records/completion of a medical 
certificate, that have been requested by us.
I understand URV asked Mr and Mrs K for a medical certificate in support of Mrs Ks illness 
for the cancellation claim and she paid the GP £30 for the medical certificate, which she 
claimed. So URV should also pay the £30 fee.Mr and Mrs K accepted my provisional decision. URV said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs K accepted my provisional decision and URV said it had nothing further to 
add Ive no reason to change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in provisional decision and 
this decision I uphold this complaint. I dont think the policy term URV relied on to pay the 
partial settlement applies in these circumstances and its fair and reasonable to conclude 
that Mr and Mrs K and Mr K2s proportion of the costs is the full cost of the accommodation. 
Also under the policy terms URV should pay Mrs Ks £30 medical certificate fee.
Putting things right
URV must pay Mr and Mrs Ks and Mr K2s full claim for the accommodation costs, less the 
part settlement its already paid (the excesses having already been deducted) plus interest 
as detailed below. URV must also pay Mrs Ks £30 medical certificate fee.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint.
I require Union Reiseversicherung AG to pay:
Mr and Mrs Ks and Mr K2s full claim for the accommodation costs, less the part 
settlement its already paid (the excesses having already been deducted). Interest* 
must be paid on the balance payment at 8% a year from the date of claim to the date 
of settlement, and
the £30 medical certificate fee.
*If Union Reiseversicherung AG considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs and Mr K and Mr K2 how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mrs and Mr K and Mr K2 a certificate showing this if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K, Mrs K and 
Mr K2 to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman