DRN-1726798
The complaint
Mrs R unhappy that Unum Ltd have declined a claim she made on her income protection 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs R sustained a disc prolapse injury on 9 June 2018. She stopped working and made a 
claim on her policy. 
Mrs R says she is a recruitment consultant employed by a company she owns with her 
husband. Her role is largely desk based - involving typing, using the phone, taking notes 
during interviews and client meetings. 
The policy had a 26 week deferred period that ended on 1 December 2018. And Mrs R 
started a phased returned to work in March 2019.
Unum declined the claim as they say the medical evidence shows Mrs Rs condition had 
improved so she could have returned to work earlier, during the deferred period. 
Mrs R made a complaint to Unum. They didnt uphold the complaint as they didnt think the 
claim had been declined unfairly.
Mrs R made a complaint to our service and our investigator looked into what had happened. 
He didnt think there was enough medical evidence to show Mrs R was incapacitated for the 
whole deferred period and so didnt uphold her complaint.  
Mrs R disagreed and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. So I need to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Its also 
important to note its for Mrs R to demonstrate that she fulfils the definition of incapacity set 
out in the policy. 
The policy terms and conditions say that the benefit can be paid if the policyholder meets the 
definition of incapacity. 
Incapacity is defined as: 
the policyholder being unable to perform the material and substantial duties of their 
occupation because of illness or injury. 
The material and substantial duties are defined as: 
the duties necessary for the performance of your occupation that cannot
reasonably be omitted or modified by you or by your employer.
Occupation refers to:
.the commonly performed duties of the trade or profession usually undertaken
in such a job, rather than the specific duties of your personal role.
In this case I dont think its unreasonable for Unum to decline Mrs Rs claim. I say this 
because Im not satisfied the definition of incapacity has been met throughout the deferred 
period. Ill explain why.
On 22 August the consultant neurosurgeon confirmed Mrs Rs back pain was 
disabling to the extent she was still off work. And she wasnt able to sleep 
comfortably. The notes also confirm Mrs R was still taking diazepam and naproxen 
alongside paracetamol and ibuprofen at this time. 
But by her next appointment on 19 September, Mrs R says she is able to sleep more 
comfortably, and the consultant records she is off all pain relief. So I think its 
reasonable to conclude that by mid-September Mrs Rs pain mustve decreased. I 
appreciate Mrs Rs comments about using alternative treatments such as woodlock 
oil. But if the level of pain and lack of mobility remained as she has described, I think 
its most likely stronger pain relief wouldve been required. I also note Mrs Rs most 
recent comments regarding taking painkillers from a previous prescription, but this 
isnt mentioned at any of her medical appointments. 
During this September appointment, the consultant also said that in his opinion Mrs R 
had dramatically improved since their last appointment. I also noted his comments 
about Mrs R personally being delighted with the progress shed made with her 
recovery.  The notes specifically say Mrs Rs arm pain has markedly improved and is 
now only very intermittent so I think its fair for Unum to rely on the medical evidence 
in the way it has because it suggests that Mrs R was no longer incapacitated from this 
point. 
Mrs R says that one of her main issues was her sitting tolerance. She explained that 
she was unable to sit for any period of time and that the only way to alleviate her 
symptoms was to lay down flat. Mrs R says this made it impossible for her to work. 
But when Mrs R saw the neurosurgeon in September, he noted she was able to sit 
comfortably in his clinic. Unum have highlighted and made the reasonable connection 
that the contemporaneous medical evidence doesnt appear to reflect how Mrs R is 
retrospectively reporting her symptoms.
Mrs R also says she was unable to work because she had problems with tiring easily 
and her fingers hurt from typing. But by January 2019 Mrs R told the neurosurgeon 
that her typing, and writing has improved - although she still cramps and tires after a 
while. The medical advice she was given by the consultant encouraged Mrs R to use 
her hands as much as possible. Im persuaded that by this stage Mrs R was able to 
perform the duties of her role, but she would need to have regular breaks and rest 
intervals. As Mrs R co-owns the company she works for with her husband, Im not 
aware of any barrier that would have prevented her from discussing any reasonable 
adjustments she may have neededMrs Rs other main duties were phone based and I havent seen anything in the 
medical evidence to suggest she was unable to carry out phone work. Or any medical 
evidence regarding Mrs R ability to travel to see clients or attend events. And as she 
was able to get to the airport for a flight, I think its most likely she was able to travel if 
her job required. 
Mrs R has pointed me to the consultant report from April 2019. He said prior to 
March, the restrictions and limitations on Mrs Rs ability to work came from the 
discomfort she was experiencing. This supports the fact Mrs R was limited and 
restricted in her abilities, but it doesnt say she was unable to carry out her duties. I 
note the policy definition of duties is tasks that cant be modified by your employer. 
As explained above, I think its likely the core duties of a recruitment consultant 
couldve been adapted to accommodate Mrs Rs need as she started to feel less 
pain for example she couldve moved to phone based consulting as much as 
possible to alleviate the need for typing and sitting down throughout the day. 
Mrs R says if she had gone to work in her disabling condition against the 
neurosurgeon's advice, then she wouldnt have made the full recovery that allowed 
her to successfully start work again in March 2019. But I cant see anywhere in the 
consultant notes where it suggests Mrs R was advised to stay off work to help aid her 
recovery. 
I note Mrs comments about the decision made by her other income protection 
provider on a similar claim. But I havent considered that as part of this complaint as it 
is not relevant.
Ive considered the concerns Mrs Rs has raised about delays in Unum handling her 
claim. But Unum is not responsible for the delay in obtaining the medical evidence 
required to assess a claim. And I havent seen anything else to warrant an award for 
trouble and upset. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman