DRN-2351126
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2003. The policy was taken out 
when Mr and Mrs P were applying for an additional secured loan. The policy provided 
Mr and Mrs P with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment and the benefit was split 
equally between them.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that there 
wasnt enough evidence to show that the optional nature of the policy had been made clear.
Nationwide didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
Mr and Mrs P havent said the PPI was included without their consent.
Mr and Mrs P were aware the PPI wasnt a condition of their mortgage because theyd 
declined PPI when the mortgage was taken out in 2000. They must have been aware the 
PPI was a separate product.
Nationwide does not have any paperwork from 2003. But, however the sale was took 
place  by phone or during a meeting  Nationwide would have told Mr and Mrs P that 
the PPI was not a condition of their mortgage.
Nationwide has provided samples of what would have been sent to Mr and Mrs P after 
the PPI was sold and what they would have received on an annual basis. If they hadnt 
consented to it, they would have queried this when they received this paperwork.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make Mr and Mrs P aware that the PPI was optional. Nationwide can't 
say how Mr and Mrs P applied for the PPI and it cant supply any paperwork from the time of 
the sale. Thats not surprising given this happened so long ago. But its not provided any 
sample phone scripts or applications that may have shown what was likely to have 
happened during the sales process. Ive considered this very carefully. And Ive taken into 
account that Mr and Mrs P didnt take PPI when they took out their mortgage in 2000. But 
I wouldnt have expected them to remember what they were told about PPI during their 
mortgage application. And, whatever they were told in 2000, Nationwide was obliged in 2003 
to make sure Mr and Mrs P knew they didnt have to take the PPI for their additional lending 
application to be successful. Overall, I've not seen enough evidence to persuade me that the 
optional nature of the policy was made clear, or that Mr and Mrs P chose to take the PPI.
Nationwide says information about the policy would have been sent to Mr and Mrs P after 
they took out the policy and that they could have queried it if they didnt want it. But this does 
not change my conclusion. I don't think the optional nature of the policy was made clear to 
Mr and Mrs P at the point of sale. If it had been, I don't think Mr and Mrs P would have taken 
the PPI.
Putting things right
Nationwide should put Mr and Mrs P in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs P the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society should pay 
compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman